Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Arts and Humanities Date October 7, 2021 2021-10-07 Media Contact Jill Kimball [email protected] 401-863-5450 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email In exhibition at Brown, Wampanoag artist draws on tradition to celebrate Indigenous rights On view at the Granoff Center for the Creative Arts, a belt made of quahog clam shells, deerskin and artificial sinew symbolizes and celebrates a United Nations resolution asserting the rights of Indigenous peoples worldwide. A Granoff Center exhibition's focal point is a belt made of deerskin, artificial sinew and wampum — beads made from quahog clam shells. Photo: Nick Dentamaro/Brown University PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — An exhibition at Brown University’s Granoff Center for the Creative Arts draws compelling connections between Native artistry, Indigenous traditions and a 2007 United Nations resolution on global Indigenous peoples’ rights. “The Beads that Bought Manhattan: The United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples,” is on view and open to the public in the Granoff Center’s Cohen Gallery through Sunday, Oct. 24. It is presented by the Brown Arts Institute in collaboration with the Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative. The exhibition’s focal point is a belt made of deerskin, artificial sinew and wampum — cylindrical beads made from quahog clam shells — that symbolizes and celebrates the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP), adopted in 2007. One of the belt’s creators, Hartman Deetz, said making wampum is more than an art form. It’s also a symbol of his identity and ancestral history. “I was about 8 or 9 years old when my grandfather first took me out to dig clams,” Deetz said. “This was a part of my summers, a part of my cultural heritage, gathering clams along the same banks as my ancestors had for thousands of years. Now, decades later, another part of my cultural heritage has come from the hard-shell quahog clam: the art of wampum.” Deetz, a member of the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe based in Southeastern Massachusetts, said his ancestors once used wampum as a form of currency, trading intricate shell jewelry, clothing and accessories with nearby tribes and European settlers. They would often create belts made of wampum, sinew and deerskin to symbolize inter-tribal pacts to maintain peace or share stewardship of the land. Deetz has followed in his ancestors’ footsteps by creating a wampum belt that features 46 beads to represent UNDRIP’s 46 articles, framing the declaration as a modern-day “treaty” between nations. He created the belt alongside several Indigenous apprentices in the Northeast and Michelle Cook, an Indigenous human rights lawyer and member of the Diné tribe. 1 of 3 Michelle Cook, left, worked with Deetz, right, to conceptualize and design the wampum belt. The pair also created informational panels about wampum and UNDRIP for the exhibition. Photo courtesy of Ockway Bay Wampum. 2 of 3 Hartman Deetz said he remembered gathering clams with his grandfather from a young age. Photo: Nick Dentamaro/Brown University 3 of 3 Forty-six individual purple beads in the middle of the wampum belt represent UNDRIP's 46 articles. Photo: Nick Dentamaro/Brown University Cook and Deetz also worked together to create informational panels for the exhibition that provide background on UNDRIP, wampum and Deetz himself. Cook said Deetz’s wampum belt helps draw attention to Indigenous peoples’ ongoing fight for equal rights in the U.S. and abroad. “Indigenous peoples in the U.S. are still unable to say no to development and extraction projects that occur within the traditional and ancestral territories they use and occupy,” Cook said. “We need to pressure decision-makers and financial institutions to make real their human rights rhetoric and protect the human rights and cultural survival of Indigenous peoples.” The exhibition is free, open to the public and on view through Sunday, Oct. 24, at the Granoff Center’s Cohen Gallery at 154 Angell St in Providence. The gallery is open Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 10 p.m., Saturdays from noon to 6 p.m. and Sundays from noon to 8 p.m. The gallery will be closed on Monday, Oct. 11, in observance of Indigenous Peoples’ Day. Deetz and Cook will lead a free public conversation on the exhibition on Tuesday, Oct. 12, at 6 p.m. in the Granoff Center’s Martinos Auditorium. A reception in the Cohen Gallery will follow. “The Beads that Bought Manhattan” marks one of several Brown-hosted fall events and programs focused on Indigenous peoples. On Wednesday, Oct. 13, Brown’s Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative, School of Public Health and Warren Alpert Medical School will host a discussion on mental health in Native American communities. On Thursday, Oct. 14, the Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology will screen “The Search for Anasazi,” a satirical film on archaeologist-Native relationships, and host a discussion with the producers. The John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage will hold a virtual conversation on teaching K-12 students about Native American culture and history on Tuesday, Oct. 19. On Thursday, Oct. 21, “Native Providence” author Patricia Rubertone will share key insights from her book chronicling the stories of Native people who have stayed in, left and returned to Providence. And on Tuesday, Nov. 5, the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society will present a conversation on Indigenous approaches to narrating climate change with environmental justice scholar Kyle Whyte. Since 2016 — following demonstrations a year earlier by Native Americans at Brown and a subsequent vote by the Brown faculty to modify the academic calendar — the University has formally recognized the second Monday in October as Indigenous Peoples’ Day. Tags Brown Arts Institute Related news: Arts and Humanities John Hay Library acquires Puerto Rican playwright’s personal papers May 11, 2022 A new collection of drafts, notes and correspondence from playwright José Rivera gives scholars a window into one artist’s process and provides new perspective on the lived experiences of Latin Americans. Read Article Open details for John Hay Library acquires Puerto Rican playwright’s personal papers Arts and Humanities Kent Kleinman appointed faculty director of the Brown Arts Institute April 27, 2022 Kleinman, who currently serves as provost at Rhode Island School of Design, will lead the development and implementation of academic programs within Brown University’s Arts Institute. Read Article Open details for Kent Kleinman appointed faculty director of the Brown Arts Institute Arts and Humanities Brown music historian weighs in on racism, Russia and Wagner’s legacy April 18, 2022 Michael Steinberg, a professor of music and history at Brown, has curated a new exhibition on Richard Wagner, one of the 19th century’s most influential and problematic cultural figures, in Berlin. Read Article Open details for Brown music historian weighs in on racism, Russia and Wagner’s legacy Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search In exhibition at Brown, Wampanoag artist draws on tradition to celebrate Indigenous rights Open details for In exhibition at Brown, Wampanoag artist draws on tradition to celebrate Indigenous rights Bookmark this Page