Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Registrar Course Registration Cross Registration Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Cross Registration Boston College is requiring all students, faculty, and staff to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 before participating in any on-campus activity related to the 2021–2022 academic year. Any student enrolling in a BC course will be required to upload their vaccination card before the start of the semester. Print Open All Close All Boston College Students Boston College Students Undergraduate and graduate students may be eligible to take courses in BC-affiliated consortia if the same courses are not offered at Boston College at any time during the academic year. Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium (BTI) The Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium (BTI), a consortium of theology faculty primarily in the Boston-Newton-Cambridge area, has as its constituent members the following institutions: Boston College Theology Department Boston College School of Theology and Ministry Boston University School of Theology Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary Hartford Seminary Harvard Divinity School Hebrew College Holy Cross Greek Orthodox School of Theology St. John’s Seminary and Theological Institute This consortium offers complete cross-registration in several hundred courses, the use of library facilities in the nine schools, joint seminars and programs, and faculty exchange programs. Theology majors and students in the School of Theology and Ministry who want to cross register through the Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium should visit the Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium website to create an account and submit a cross registration request. Students are expected to consult with their advisor or department chairperson before cross registering. Graduate Theology majors may take up to half of their courses through BTI. The Consortium Under a program of cross registration, sophomores, juniors, and seniors may take one elective course during each fall and spring semester at Boston University, Brandeis University, Northeastern University, Pine Manor College, Regis College, or Tufts University if a similar course is not available at Boston College. Please visit the Academic Forms page to access an editable version of the cross registration form. Graduate students, except law students, may cross register for one course each fall and spring semester at Boston University, Brandeis University, or Tufts University. M.B.A. students are not permitted to register at Brandeis University and students in the CSOM's Graduate Finance Program are not allowed to cross register at any of the universities. Please visit the Academic Forms page to access an editable version of the cross registration form. Law school students may cross register for classes only at Boston University Law School and only if the course they wish to take at BU will not be offered at any time during the current academic year. Students wishing to cross register must see the Registrar for permission. Consortium for Graduate Studies in Gender, Culture, Women, and Sexuality Graduate students enrolled in degree programs during the academic year may apply to participate in the Consortium for Graduate Studies in Gender, Culture, Women, and Sexuality, an inter-institutional enterprise established to advance the field of women's studies and enlarge the scope of graduate education through new models of team teaching and interdisciplinary study. Faculty and students are drawn from six member schools—Boston College, Brandeis, Harvard, Northeastern, MIT, and Tufts. Graduate students enrolled in degree programs at Boston College may, with the permission of their department, apply to participate in this program. Registration forms will be mailed from the Consortium to accepted students. For more information, visit the Consortium for Graduate Studies in Gender, Culture, Women, and Sexuality website. Non-Boston College Students Non-Boston College Students Students who are interested in cross registering for a course at BC should obtain a cross registration form from their home Registrar's Office. The form must be signed by the home advisor, registrar, and BC course instructor. Once those signatures are obtained, submit the form to Christine Muller in BC Student Services at christine.muller@bc.edu for processing. Cross registration requests are not typically processed until the first day of class. To search for BC classes, visit the Course Information and Schedule website. Students from the Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium should submit their cross registration requests through the BTI website. Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College