Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date July 21, 2021 2021-07-21 Media Contact Brian E. Clark [email protected] 401-863-1638 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Letter from President Paxson: In support of Brown’s DACA community President Christina H. Paxson wrote to the campus community about the University's unwavering support for students and employees who benefit from the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — In light of a recent federal court ruling that threatens the security of individuals who benefit from the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA), Brown President Christina H. Paxson wrote to students, faculty and staff to reaffirm the University’s steadfast support for DACA students and employees. On July 16, a federal district court judge in Texas ruled that DACA is illegal, a decision that blocks all new applications to the program and indicates that the processing of future renewals for those already enrolled in the program may too be blocked. President Joseph Biden has stated that the U.S. Department of Justice will appeal the ruling. “We know that those with DACA status bring talent, creativity, perseverance and fortitude to businesses, civic organizations, schools and their communities,” Paxson wrote in her July 21 letter. “At Brown, those with DACA status are valued members of our community, and we are committed to advocating for Congress to establish, preserve and defend their rights.” Brown also joined more than 200 leaders of higher education and business organizations in signing a letter organized by the Presidents’ Alliance on Higher Education and Immigration and the American Business Immigration Coalition in support of the Senate Dream Act of 2021, which would provide a path to citizenship for DACA recipients and DACA-eligible individuals. The full text of Paxson’s letter to the community is included below. ***** Dear Members of the Brown Community, In light of a recent federal court ruling that threatens the security of hundreds of thousands of individuals who benefit from the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA), I am writing to express Brown’s steadfast and unwavering support for our DACA students and employees. On July 16, a federal district court judge in Texas ruled that the DACA program is illegal, a decision that blocks all new applications to allow undocumented immigrants who arrived in the United States as children to remain in the country. Under the ruling, current DACA recipients are allowed to continue to be enrolled in the program and apply for renewals. However, the judge indicated that the processing of future renewals could be blocked. President Biden has stated that the U.S. Department of Justice will appeal the ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. The University has long played a leadership role in advocating for the protection of DACA with state and federal elected and appointed officials, as well as for a permanent legislative solution that will provide those with DACA status an expedited path to lawful, permanent citizenship. Following last week’s court proceedings, Brown has joined more than 200 leaders of higher education and business in signing on to a letter organized by the Presidents’ Alliance and the American Business Immigration Coalition in support of the Senate Dream Act of 2021, which would provide a path to citizenship for DACA recipients and DACA-eligible individuals. We know that those with DACA status bring talent, creativity, perseverance and fortitude to businesses, civic organizations, schools and their communities. At Brown, those with DACA status are valued members of our community, and we are committed to advocating for Congress to establish, preserve and defend their rights. There are a number of resources available at Brown for undocumented and DACA students through the Undocumented, First-Generation College and Low-Income Student Center. As always, we want our community to be assured that Brown does not share information with law enforcement regarding the immigration status of undocumented or DACA status students, and would not without a subpoena or other lawfully issued court order. Brown’s Department of Public Safety does not inquire about or act upon information related to immigration status, and does not partner with federal or state agencies to do so. Any students with concerns are encouraged to contact the Undocumented, First-Generation College and Low-Income Student Center at [email protected]. Any employees with concerns should contact [email protected]. Supporting a just and inclusive community at Brown remains our unyielding priority, and the University will continue to advocate for policies and laws that ensure the full protection of every member of our community. Sincerely, Christina H. Paxson President Tags President Related news: News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Letter from President Paxson: In support of Brown’s DACA community Open details for Letter from President Paxson: In support of Brown’s DACA community Bookmark this Page