Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Institute for Leadership Impact About Us Education Healthcare Student Engagement Contact Us ☰ Institute for Leadership Impact Simmons Community Engagement Institute for Leadership Impact The Institute for Leadership Impact works with emerging and established leaders in education, health, and social enterprise to help them develop the skills they need to be more effective in leading organizations and solving real-world problems. Improving Health Leadership Strong health leadership has rarely been needed more than it is today. Health systems and teams must provide care that individuals and communities need, in ways they will use it, and at costs they can afford. We help healthcare leaders learn to respond to this challenge through better leadership practices and continual improvement. We believe that with the right tools, these leaders can transform the health and well-being of a patient and a population, of a neighborhood and a nation. Learn more. Transforming Education Systems The transition from bureaucratically-defined education systems to dynamic learning organizations requires a different model of leadership development. We work with public school superintendents, independent school leaders, and teachers to develop and sustain effective, transformational leadership practices. Learn more. Expert faculty and proven results The Institute for Leadership Impact is based in the Simmons School of Education & Human Development at SMU, and we draw our faculty from recognized experts across the SMU campus, region and nation. The Institute is led by Dr. Eric G Bing, MD, Ph.D., MBA, a psychiatrist with expertise in cancer, public health and leadership development in low and middle income countries. For over 20 years, Dr. Bing has developed and managed health programs and developed health leaders in low and middle income countries in Africa and Latin America. For the past four years he has trained and/or coached over 350 leaders in the Global Health Corps, a network of emerging global health leaders from Africa, North and South America, Europe and Asia mobilized to help reduce health inequity in developing countries. Impact Report The Institute for Leadership Impact and Center for Global Health Impact are working to help mitigate local and global challenges by synthesizing and disseminating information, creating and incubating public health solutions, and training leaders in public health, medicine, education, and other fields in partnership with many communities. Learn more in the 2019-2020 Impact Report. You Inspire, we empower Your goals and challenges are unique. That’s why we don’t offer a one-size-fits-all approach. We work with you to determine the best way to support you and your organization’s work. Our programs include an array of didactic, experiential, individual and team-based leadership experiences – to help you create the impact you desire. Contact the Institute for Leadership Impact at leadershipimpact@smu.edu or 214-768-4539 to learn more. Top Stories More top stories Institute for Leadership Impact About Us Education Healthcare Student Engagement Contact Us Tweets by SMULeadImpact Contact the Institute for Leadership Impact Contact Us 214-768-4539 leadershipimpact@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Ste. 135 3101 University Blvd Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter