Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Anxiety Most of us get anxious sometimes, maybe before a big exam or a job interview. Anxiety disorders differ, however, both from stress and from fleeting moments of anxiousness or worry, in that they have a significant and ongoing adverse impact on day-to-day life. Anxiety disorders involve intense and excessive worrying along with other debilitating symptoms. People with these disorders may feel anxious almost all of the time to a degree that it can impair their entire life. While normal stress is transient, anxiety disorders are ongoing, lasting for weeks or months. Anxiety disorders are treatable. In fact, they are among the most treatable mental health disorders. Expand all Collapse all Generalized Anxiety Disorder Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) is characterized by uncontrollable worry, a constant sense of dread or anticipation of disaster. Persistent feelings of restlessness, fatigue, difficulty concentrating, shortness of breath, sleep disturbances and muscle tension are symptoms of GAD. Excessive worry about health, school, relationships or one’s future is common but often the source of worry is hard to identify. This uncontrollable worry lasts at least six months and can lead to impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning. Sometimes the worry can be so severe that it can lead to a panic attack. Panic Disorder Panic Disorder is characterized by recurrent, unexpected intense episodes of fear and anxiety. During a panic attack, people experience physical symptoms such as shortness of breath, sweating, dizziness, racing heart and shakiness. A panic attack may also cause feeling of loss of control or a fear of going crazy or of dying. These symptoms occur when the body's "flight or fight" response suddenly becomes activated for no reason. The attack may last just a few minutes or, sometimes, longer. The good news is that panic attacks always end! People who suffer from a panic disorder are often plagued by excessive worry in anticipation of the possibility of another attack. This worry may lead to changes in lifestyle meant to avoid situations in which prior panic attacks have occurred. Phobias A phobia is a strong, irrational fear of a specific object or situation that, in reality, poses little or no real threat. This anxiety may lead people to unnecessarily limit their lifestyle in order to avoid the possibility of encountering what is feared. When people who suffer from a phobia cannot avoid a feared object or situation, they may experience rapid heartbeat, sweating, panic and a strong desire to get away. Phobias generally begin in childhood. Common phobias are claustrophobia (fear of enclosed spaces), acrophobia (fear of heights), agoraphobia (fear of public places), flying, spiders or other insects, thunderstorms. Social Phobia Many people experience some degree of nervousness in social situations. However, Social Phobia involves an intense, irrational fear of being embarrassed or judged negatively by others. Individuals suffering from this type of phobia may severely limit their activities and avoid almost all social situations including casual social interaction, eating in public, or speaking with an authority figure. They often fear that others will notice their physical signs of anxiety such as sweating, shaking or blushing. As with other types of phobias, people with Social Phobia generally recognize that their fear is irrational. Social Phobia can be overcome by taking small steps forward. One step is joining a social support group like the Social Anxiety Management Group offered at CPS. Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) is characterized by persistent thoughts, images or impulses that are experienced as distressing and which lead to severe anxiety. Obsessions are intrusive thoughts, images, or ideas that won't go away, are unwanted, and are extremely worrying. The compulsions of OCD are characterized by the pressing need to do something to prevent or get rid of the anxiety associated with the obsessive thoughts. This need may take the form of rituals such as constant hand-washing. People who struggle with these thoughts or rituals may even know that they are irrational. While many people have occasional obsessive thoughts or compulsive behaviors, people with OCD often spend much of their day consumed with these symptoms, to the degree that the disorder greatly interferes with their daily life Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) may occur in the aftermath of a traumatic event such as a serious accident, sexual or physical assault, or war. Individuals with PTSD often experience intense fear or stress even after the actual threat is past. They may also have intense feelings of helplessness, flashbacks or intrusive thoughts of the event, trouble sleeping or nightmares, guilt, increased arousal or a need to avoid situations associated with the trauma. These symptoms can appear weeks, months or even years after the event. CPS offers several support groups that may be helpful for individuals dealing with these issues. Getting Help Talk with a professional experienced in helping individuals struggling with forms of anxiety. Support may include individual or group counseling, among other strategies. The Counseling and Psychological Services team in Columbia Health is comprised of psychologists, psychiatrists, and social workers available to provide support through scheduled appointments, drop-in locations, or group support. Urgent Care After-hours, call 212-854-2878 for crisis support and recommendations for care. Visit our Coping Tools page for self-help and crisis resources for coping with concerns outside our regular hours of operation. Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close