Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Understanding what alcohol does to your body and the risks associated with alcohol use can help you in many ways: If you choose to drink, you can make safer decisions about drinking. You can make a more informed decision about whether or not to drink. You can recognize the warning signs of dangerous intoxication and call EMS for a friend. You can reduce the risks associated with high risk alcohol use, including injury. You can get help for yourself or for a friend. What kind of substance is alcohol? Alcohol is classified as a depressant because it slows down the central nervous system, causing a decrease in motor coordination, reaction time and intellectual performance. The main factors impacting intoxication level are a person’s weight, body composition and hormones, number of drinks, and the span of time the drinks are consumed in. How does alcohol move through the body? Alcohol is metabolized mostly by the liver. In general, the liver can process one standard drink in one hour. If you consume more than this, the additional alcohol will accumulate in the blood and body tissues (like the brain) until it can be metabolized. This is why having a lot of shots or playing drinking games can result in high blood alcohol concentrations that last for several hours. What is "one drink"? People often underestimate how much they have had to drink because they aren’t using standard drink measurements. One drink is equal to one 12-oz beer, 1.5 ounces of liquor (whiskey, vodka, etc.), or a 5-oz glass of wine. Knowing your Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) Different people will process alcohol at different rates. This means you could have the same number of drinks as a friend but feel greater effects from the alcohol than they do. Factors including body size, differing levels of enzymes responsible for metabolizing alcohol, hormones, percentage of body water relative to body fat, and prescription medicines can all affect alcohol tolerance. This link can give you more specific BAC information based on your weight, what you've had to drink, and the time period over which you have had those drinks. The Time Factor Hours since first drink Subtract this from BAC 1 .015 2 .030 3 .045 4 .060 5 .075 6 .090 Effects of blood alcohol content on thinking, feeling and behavior Now that you know how to calculate BAC, see how alcohol affects your body at different levels. 0.02 - 0.03 Legal definition of intoxication in R.I. for people under 21 years of age. Few obvious effects; slight intensification of mood. 0.05 - 0.06 Feeling of warmth, relaxation, mild sedation; exaggeration of emotion and behavior; slight decrease in reaction time and in fine-muscle coordination; impaired judgment about continued drinking. 0.07 - 0.09 More noticeable speech impairment and disturbance of balance; impaired motor coordination, hearing and vision; feeling of elation or depression; increased confidence; may not recognize impairment. 0.08 Legal definition of intoxication in R.I. for people 21 years and older. 0.11 - 0.12 Coordination and balance becoming difficult; distinct impairment of mental faculties and judgment. 0.14 - 0.15 Major impairment of mental and physical control; slurred speech, blurred vision and lack of motor skills; needs medical evaluation. 0.20 Loss of motor control; must have assistance standing or walking; mental confusion; needs medical assistance. 0.30 and higher Severe intoxication; potential loss of consciousness; needs hospitalization. Does a person's sex play a role in alcohol's effect on the body? A person's experience with alcohol's effects on the body is in part determined by their sex assigned at birth. According to research, a cisgender woman or person assigned female at birth will feel the effects of alcohol more than a cisgender man or person assigned male at birth, even if they are the same weight. There is also increasing evidence that people assigned female at birth are more susceptible to alcohol's damaging effects than are those assigned male. Please note that if you are taking hormones as part of a gender affirming process, you may find that your experience with alcohol's effects on your body will change but there is not adequate research as yet to describe the full scope and variability of these effects. Below are explanations of why our bodies process alcohol differently based on our sex assigned at birth: Ability to dilute alcohol Cisgender women and those assigned female at birth have less body water (52% v. 61%). A body with more water will automatically dilute the alcohol more, even if the two people weigh the same amount. Ability to metabolize alcohol Cisgender women and those assigned female at birth have less dehydrogenase, a liver enzyme that breaks down alcohol, meaning they will break down alcohol more slowly. Hormonal factors In people who menstruate, premenstrual hormonal changes cause intoxication to set in faster during the days right before a menstrual period. Birth control pills or other medication with estrogen will also slow down the rate at which alcohol is eliminated from the body. Susceptibility to long-term alcohol-induced damage. Studies have shown that cisgender women and those assigned female at birth who are heavy drinkers are at greater risk of liver disease, damage to the pancreas and high blood pressure. Research also tells us that proportionately more cisgender women or those assigned female at birth die from cirrhosis than do cisgender men or those assigned male. What other factors affect your response to alcohol? Food Having food in your stomach can have an influence on the absorption of alcohol. The food will slow the emptying of the stomach into the small intestine, where alcohol is very rapidly absorbed. Peak BAC could be as much as 3 times higher in someone with an empty stomach than in someone who has eaten a meal before drinking. Eating regular meals and having snacks while drinking will keep you from getting too drunk too quickly. Asian descent Some people of Asian descent have more difficulty metabolizing alcohol. They may experience facial flushing, nausea, headache, dizziness and rapid heartbeat. It appears that one of the liver enzymes that is needed to process alcohol is not active in these individuals. It is estimated that up to 50% of Asian people are susceptible to these reactions to alcohol. Family History Research studies have found that children of alcoholics are four times more likely than the general population to develop alcohol problems. However, many people with a family history of alcoholism do not become alcoholics. Additional factors that increase the risk of developing alcoholism include having an alcoholic parent who is depressed or has other psychological problems, or growing up in a family where both parents abuse alcohol or other drugs. What is the difference between a blackout and passing out? "Blackouts" (sometimes referred to as alcohol-related memory loss or "alcoholic amnesia") occur when people have no memory of what happened while intoxicated. During a blackout, someone may appear fine to others; however, the next day they cannot remember parts of the night and what they did. The cause of blackouts is not well understood but may involve the interference of short-term memory storage, deep seizures, or in some cases, psychological depression. Blackouts shouldn't be confused with "passing out," which happens when people lose consciousness from drinking excessive amounts of alcohol. Losing consciousness means that the person has reached a very dangerous level of intoxication; they could aspirate on their vomit or slip into a coma. If someone has passed out, call EMS immediately (401.863-4111). What is a hangover and can I prevent it? Hangovers are the body's reaction to poisoning and withdrawal from alcohol. Hangovers begin 8 to 12 hours after the last drink and symptoms include fatigue, depression, headache, thirst, nausea, and vomiting. The severity of symptoms varies according to the individual and the quantity of alcohol consumed. People have tried many different things to relieve the effects of a hangover. The only way to prevent a hangover is to drink in moderation: Eat a good dinner and continue to snack throughout the night. Start out slowly to see how the alcohol is affecting you. Avoid drinking games or shots. Drinking a large amount of alcohol in a short amount of time is the most likely way to become dangerously intoxicated. Drink water in between drinks to stay hydrated. Here are some of the things that WON'T help a hangover: Drinking a little more alcohol the next day. This simply puts more alcohol in your body and prolongs the effects of the alcohol intoxication. It's best not to take a pain reliever before going to bed. Give your body a chance to process the alcohol before taking any medication. Here are some things that MIGHT help a hangover: When you wake up, it's important to eat a healthy meal. Processing alcohol causes a drop in blood sugar and can contribute to headaches. Drink plenty of water to get rehydrated. Take a pain reliever like Tylenol (acetaminophen) when you wake up. Do not take a pain reliever before going to bed because it will tax your liver. Let your body process the alcohol while you are sleeping. Avoid excessive caffeine as it may contribute to dehydration. However, if you drink coffee every morning, have your first cup not more than a couple of hours after your regular time. Don't force your body to go through caffeine withdrawal while you are recovering from a hangover. Related Links e-CHUG e-CHUG is a free, anonymous assessment tool that provides individualized feedback on the role alcohol is playing in your life. You can also see how your use compares with other college students. College Drinking: Changing the Culture Click on the section for students to find out about myths and facts, take an interactive tour of the flow of alcohol through the body or learn about alcohol poisoning. You can use the Calorie Counter to learn about the number of calories in different drinks and you can send an eCard to someone who's drinking worries you. National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism NIAAA publishes research on many aspects of alcohol, answers frequently asked questions and provides pamphlets and brochures. The research papers and reports can be downloaded. National Institute of Drug Abuse NIDA provides research reports, answers commonly-asked questions and gives related links. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, you should call EMS. If you are still wondering, click here. Talking to a Friend About Drinking or Drug Use It's not easy to know what to say when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Click here to learn what to do and what not to do. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook