Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Biology Undergraduate Education Site Navigation Home Contact People Advising & Declarations Concentrations Biology for First-Years Courses BIOL 0200 Replacement | AP/IB Transfer Credit Writing Requirement Research Maria L. Caleel '87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Honors Diversity and Inclusion Peer Advising Curricular Resources Senior Prizes After Brown Employment Opportunities News & Facebook Print this Page Share this Page Arnold Laboratory Brown University Box GA-124 91 Waterman St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3133 Fax 401-863-7411 Stay Connected with Biology Undergraduate Education Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory About Us Biological Sciences at Brown University It is an exciting time for the biological sciences. Since the turn of the century biologists have mapped the human genome, assembled the first synthetic virus, and discovered that mature cells can be reprogrammed to give rise to several different cell types. Our understanding of how living systems operate and integrate from the level of molecules to ecosystems continues to grow at a rapid pace. Brown’s program in Undergraduate Biology arms students with the knowledge, skills, and collaborative spirit required to tackle some of society’s more pressing issues – from disease prevention to preserving Earth’s natural heritage. Undergraduates in the Biological Sciences can choose from more than nine concentrations. Biology students take courses and pursue research with faculty spanning six departments within the Division of Biology and Medicine. Partnerships with departments outside of the Division support interdisciplinary concentrations in Applied Mathematics-Biology, Computational Biology, Biochemistry, Biophysics, and Biomedical Engineering. The program in Biology strives to place students in the role of the scientist. A growing number of first-year and sophomore seminars, inquiry-based, research and field courses in Biology allow students to engage with learning material in innovative ways that promote independent thinking. With support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Biology is working with other programs on campus to use well established teaching methods that broaden participation and increase retention in science, technology, engineering and math disciplines. Our goals are to bring authentic research projects into STEM courses, facilitate collaborative problem solving in large introductory courses such as Genetics, and build learning communities within courses. Learn more about the Brown-HHMI Gateway STEM Course Initiative here. More than half of students in Biology pursue independent research. Over one-third complete a senior thesis and graduate with honors. Many students study abroad, pursue internships off campus, and work with clinical faculty in the Medical School. Over 50 percent of students in Biology pursue careers in the health sciences and work with Health Careers Advising to meet their goals. More than 20 percent of students in Biology pursue graduate studies, and others go into business, education, government and non-profit sectors. Also in Biology Undergraduate Education Site Navigation Home Contact People Advising & Declarations Concentrations Biology for First-Years Courses BIOL 0200 Replacement | AP/IB Transfer Credit Writing Requirement Research Maria L. Caleel '87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Honors Diversity and Inclusion Peer Advising Curricular Resources Senior Prizes After Brown Employment Opportunities News & Facebook Print this Page Share this Page Arnold Laboratory Brown University Box GA-124 91 Waterman St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3133 Fax 401-863-7411 Stay Connected with Biology Undergraduate Education Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity