Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > About Us > Events Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events CUIMC Grand Rounds Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Events Search by keyword Categories - Any -AdmissionsAdvisingArchitectureArtsAthleticsAwardsBasic Health SciencesBusinessCareersClinical Health SciencesCollege of Dental MedicineCollege of Physicians and SurgeonsColumbia NursingCommencementCommunications and MediaComputer ScienceCore CurriculumCOVID-19DeadlineEarth InstituteEconomicsEducationEngineeringFinanceGlobal ProgramsGovernment and Public PolicyGraduate School of Arts and SciencesHealthcareHuman ResourcesHumanitiesInternational and Public AffairsJournalismLawLibrariesMailman School of Public HealthMusicNatural SciencesOrientationOtherPolitical ScienceReligionResearchReunionSchool of Social WorkSocial JusticeSocial SciencesSportsTeaching and LearningWorld Leaders Forum Date E.g., 06/01/2022 Electronic Medical Records Boot Camp Wednesday, June 29, 2022 to Thursday, June 30, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Mailman School of Public Health Research Electronic Medical Records Boot Camp: Biostatistical methods for analyzing EMR data The Electronic Medical Records Boot Camp is a two-day intensive boot camp of seminars and hands-on analytical sessions to provide an overview of electronic health data opportunities, statistical challenges, and latest techniques. This two-day intensive workshop will go over opportunities and potentials of EMR/EHR for health and medical studies, statistical challenges and pitfalls for analyzing EMR/EHR, and the latest developments of multiple techniques to address those challenges, followed by hands-on computer lab sessions and case studies to put concepts into practice. By the end of the electronic medical records training, participants will be familiar with the following topics: Power and potentials of EMR/EHR data Open-access datasets across the world Preparation, transformation and integration of EMR/EHR Confounding, bias and missing data in EMR/EHR and statistical methods addressing these challenges Statistical methods for comparative effectiveness Statistical methods for predictive analysis Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS There are four prerequisites and requirements to attend this training: Each participant must have an introductory background in statistics. Each participant must be familiar with R. Each participant must be bring a laptop with latest versions of R and R-Studio downloaded and installed prior to the first day of the workshop. R and R-Studio are available for free download and installation on Mac, PC, and Linux devices. Personal laptops will be used for multiple boot camp sessions. Each participant will be required to apply for access to MIMIC-III data, requiring completion of specific HIPAA training to receive credentials. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at Columbia.EMR@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. TISSUE TALKS: Natalia Trayanova, Johns Hopkins University Wednesday, June 29, 2022 3:00 PM to 4:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories Engineering Research We are excited to welcome Prof. Natalia Trayanova from Johns Hopkins University to Tissue Talks on Wednesday, June 29th at 3:00PM ET as she presents, "AI-Powered Personalized Computational Cardiology." ABOUT TISSUE TALKS Join us every Wednesday at 3:00PM ET for the popular Tissue Talks, our weekly webinar series hosted by Dr. Gordana Vunjak-Novakovic and the Laboratory for Stem Cells and Tissue Engineering. Don’t miss the opportunity each week to hear from global leaders in Tissue Engineering! Deep Brain Stimulation Information Session Friday, July 1, 2022 3:00 PM to 4:00 PM Venue Online Event Zoom Meeting Categories Healthcare Other An informational session open to those who are looking for more information about DBS surgery for Parkinson’s disease, Tremor, or Dystonia. Presentation will include overview of symptoms necessitating referral to DBS and DBS surgery process. We will also have Q&A with neurosurgery, neurologists, and patients who have undergone DBS surgery. Meeting facilitated by Dr. Brett Youngerman (neurosurgeon), Linda Winfield, RN, MPH , and Dr. Kimberly Kwei. Register in advance for this meeting:https://columbiacuimc.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJ0lf-GvrDkoGNO6QYtZXn_DCnRMwkrclcF0 After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the meeting. The Columbia Renal Biopsy Course Saturday, July 2, 2022 to Friday, July 22, 2022 All day Venue Online Event Categories College of Physicians and Surgeons The course is designed to assist nephrologists and nephropathologists in diagnosing and managing the most common forms of medical renal disease, including diseases that target the glomerulus, tubules, interstitium, and blood vessels. The activity will span three weeks and will include a combination of pre-recorded lectures and live Zoom sessions covering the following content areas: Nephrotic Syndrome, Nephritic Syndrome, Genetics, Tubulointerstitial & Vascular Disease. The live sessions will be held on July 8, 15, and 22 and will consist of: 45 - 60 minutes of Q&A/panel discussion with faculty focusing on the lectures for the week. 45 minutes of 2 CPC cases, with pathologist and clinicians 45 minutes of “show & tell” renal pathology lab – 7-10 cases per day CLICK HERE TO VIEW THE AGENDA The Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons designates this live activity for a maximum of 33.0 AMA PRA Category 1 CreditsTM. Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity. 45th Columbia Renal Biopsy Course Saturday, July 2, 2022 to Friday, July 22, 2022 All day Venue College of Physicians and Surgeons, 630 W. 168 St., New York, NY 10032 Categories Careers College of Physicians and Surgeons Education Teaching and Learning THE COLUMBIA RENAL BIOPSY COURSE RECORDED CONTENT AVAILABLE: JULY 2, 2022 LIVE ZOOM SESSION DATES: Friday, July 8, 15 & 22, 2022 PROGRAM DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES The course is designed to assist nephrologists and nephropathologists in diagnosing and managing the most common forms of medical renal disease, including diseases that target the glomerulus, tubules, interstitium, and blood vessels. The activity will span three weeks and will include a combination of pre-recorded lectures and live Zoom sessions covering the following content areas: Nephrotic syndrome, Nephritic syndrome, Genetics, Tubulointerstitial, and Vascular Disease, and Transplant & Dysproteinemia. The live sessions will be held on July 8, 15, and 22 and will consist of: • 45 - 60 minutes of Q&A/panel discussion with faculty focusing on the lectures for the week. • 45 minutes of two CPC cases, with pathologist and clinicians • 45 minutes of “show & tell” renal pathology lab – 7-10 cases per day Upon completion of this activity, participants will be better able to understand: • the pathophysiology and clinical aspects of the major parenchymal diseases of the kidney, with emphasis on clinical-pathologic correlations and the role of renal biopsy. • pathology, pathophysiology, pathogenesis, clinical presentation, prognosis, and optimal therapy for many different medical renal diseases, including but not limited to minimal change disease, FSGS, membranous nephropathy, amyloidosis, membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, IgA nephropathy, hereditary nephritis, acute post-infectious glomerulonephritis, amyloidosis, light chain deposition disease, myeloma cast nephropathy, cryoglobulinemic glomerulonephritis, lupus nephritis, and diabetic nephropathy. Register by July 1, 2022 at: https://cvent.me/289PbE NIH Grant Writing Boot Camp Monday, July 11, 2022 to Tuesday, July 12, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Research Mailman School of Public Health NIH Grant Writing Boot Camp: Building a Strong Foundation for Funding Success The NIH Grant Writing Boot Camp is a two-day intensive boot camp combining lectures, hands-on activities, and discussions to demystify the NIH application process. This training will prepare participants to submit an NIH grant proposal that turns reviewers into advocates, positioning the applicant for success.  Attendees will leave the boot camp with: A foundational understanding of the NIH granting process and how it pertains to public health research Hard-copy reference materials for information retention & review A refined Aims page A refined NIH Biosketch One round of written feedback for a Specific Aims page will be made available to all attendees for 3 months after the workshop, at no additional cost, further solidifying the workshop concepts into practical skills. Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS No prior experience in preparing or submitting NIH grant applications is necessary. However, each participant should be prepared to share* and work on an NIH Specific Aims page and an NIH biosketch. Participants who have not previously written an NIH-style Aims page and/or biosketch will have an opportunity to draft their page and receive initial feedback ahead of the on-site workshop. There are no other prerequisites to attend the NIH Grant Writing Boot Camp. *Some hands-on activities may use participant aims pages, and we therefore request that all participants respect the confidentiality of other attendees. Any participant who prefers not to share their research ideas may create a mock aims page to use during the workshop. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at Columbia.GrantWriting@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. ISSO Newly Arrived J-1 Faculty and Researchers Orientation Tuesday, July 12, 2022 11:00 AM to 12:30 PM Venue Online Event Zoom Webinar Categories Other Orientation This ISSO sponsored event is for Newly Arrived J-1 Faculty and Researchers at Columbia University. You are invited to our Newly Arrived J-1 Faculty and Researchers Orientation. These sessions are for those who have recently arrived. The orientation covers an overview of this visa status. ISSO strongly recommends you attend. Please have your DS-2019 and passport available. Register here. SQL Boot Camp: Building and Querying Databases Wednesday, July 13, 2022 to Friday, July 15, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Research Mailman School of Public Health SQL Boot Camp: Building and Querying Databases The SQL Boot Camp is a three-day intensive boot camp of seminars and hands-on programming sessions to provide an overview on the design of relational databases and querying data from existing data sources using the SQL programming language. This three-day intensive bootcamp covers the fundamentals of relational databases, including database design, and writing queries using the SQL language. The bootcamp will integrate seminar lectures with extensive hands-on sessions using two commonly available database software programs: Microsoft Access and MySQL. The first half of the bootcamp will cover building databases with proper design to maintain data integrity, while the second half will focus on retrieval and manipulation using SQL (Structured Query Language). During this workshop, participants will: Learn the pitfalls of using Excel for data storage Build small relational databases in Microsoft Access and MySQL Formulate SQL queries to 1) create and modify database objects, and 2) populate and retrieve data from database tables Optimize SQL queries for best performance Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend. This workshop will particularly benefit those who will be actively involved in research data management. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS There are two prerequisites and requirements to attend this training: Basic experience working with data (e.g., data cleaning or analysis) is beneficial, but not required. Each participant must have a laptop with Zoom installed. To get the most out of breakout groups, we also recommend a working microphone and webcam. Participants may also wish to share their screen with instructors during one-on-one questions. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at ColumbiaSHARP.SQL@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) Training Friday, July 15, 2022 to Sunday, July 17, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Research Mailman School of Public Health Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) Training Join us for live-stream RSO training on July 15-17 & July 22-24, 2022. Join us for two long weekends remotely, via live-stream video for the required 40 hours of training to become a Radiation Safety Officer (RSO)! This course meets the training requirement for a Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) type C license, providing the skills needed to successfully implement a radiation protection program in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, university, hospital, or medical laboratory setting. COURSE LEARNING OBJECTIVES Develop RSO skill sets specific to University, Hospital, Medical, Health Department, Governmental or Biopharmaceutical lab environments Gain expertise in maintaining compliance with radionuclide permit and licensing requirements at local, state and national levels Create and maintain a safe laboratory working environment Assess potential radiation risks and relevant human health effects Develop work plan for employees to effectively reduce or eliminate risk Limit potential for radiological terrorism using laboratory materials Understand and apply Health Physics practice in a laboratory setting Learn management of radiological solid and liquid waste Understand regulatory requirements and expectations Gain hands-on experience with instrumentation Apply “tools of the trade” upon returning to your organization, with a comprehensive resource guide ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at Columbia.Workshops@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. Python Data Wrangling Boot Camp Monday, July 18, 2022 to Tuesday, July 19, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Research Mailman School of Public Health Python Data Wrangling Boot Camp: Introduction to Data Wrangling, Cleaning and Manipulation with the Python Programming Language The Python Boot Camp is a two-day intensive course that combines concept-focused seminars with hands-on exercises pairing Python fundamentals with practical data wrangling and analysis. This two-day course will provide an introduction to the python programming language and demonstrate how it can be used to do essential data wrangling, manipulation and cleaning tasks using real-world biomedical data. Bringing together scalable methods and popular libraries for data manipulation, basic statistical analysis and visualization, this boot camp will provide participants with all the necessary tools and background for getting started with Python for data work. Through hosted notebooks, participants will leave the workshop with functioning code that they can then apply to their own data sets. Participants will receive orienting videos before the real-time sessions so they can familiarize themselves with the Jupyter Notebook/Google Colab environment; all code samples will be available in this format for participant use. By the end of the workshop, participants will be able to: Load and explore data sets in Python Join, reconcile and otherwise clean up messy data sets Do basic statistical analyses, including linear and logistic regression Render exploratory visualizations Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS No prior programming experience is required to participate in this workshop. However, participants must have (or create) an unrestricted Google account for working with sample notebooks (via Google Colab) and data sets. Likewise, participants will be expected to complete a brief survey and watch up to 3 hours of pre-recorded introductory material before the start of the real-time workshop activities. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at ColumbiaSHARP.Python@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top