Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > Education > Mailman School of Public Health Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine Mailman School of Public Health The Mailman School of Public Health has trained generations of public health leaders, helping to shape and improve health and safety for millions. Through our commitment to education, public health research, and community collaboration, we continue to lead the charge to address today's most pressing public health issues. Currently ranked No. 4 among public health schools in the nation, and No. 1 in the New York metropolitan region by U.S. News & World Report, the Mailman School is consistently counted as a leading institution for public health education. Our academic programs offer students the opportunity to learn from renowned experts across a wide range of disciplines. By combining an innovative curriculum, hands-on field experience, and unmatched opportunities for collaborative research, we prepare our students to become tomorrow's leaders in industry, research, academia, and shaping public policy. As the sixth largest recipient of NIH research funds among schools of public health, we conduct groundbreaking research that helps define the direction of the field of public health. Our research programs and labs explore diverse topics like data science, urban health, and aging—helping us understand and address critical public health issues on a local and global scale. As part of Columbia University Irving Medical Center and the Washington Heights community, the Mailman School works with diverse populations throughout New York City on complex health issues. In an evolving world with new and serious challenges to face, we train our students to seek and create innovative solutions to protect and improve the health of people here in our community, across the country, and around the world. Explore Mailman School of Public Health Academic Programs Our six academic departments offer students myriad opportunities to learn from experts in specialized fields. Across the School, our faculty consists of world-class authorities who conduct pioneering research and program implementation. Learn About Our Programs Learn About Our Programs Research Research Global Health Global Health Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top