Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Licensing Licensing right arrow down arrow I'm On Campus right arrow down arrow Internal Requests Sponsorships Fundraising Internal Consumption Policy NIL Requests I'm Off Campus right arrow down arrow University Sponsorship Policy Crafter's Program Licensees right arrow down arrow Code of Conduct Artwork Do's and Don'ts Policies FAQs Find Bearcats Gear right arrow down arrow Look for the Label Home » About UC » Licensing » I'm On Campus » NIL Requests Set Navigation title in component Internal Requests Sponsorships Fundraising Internal Consumption Policy NIL Requests Name, Image, Likeness (NIL) Requests Are you a student-athlete interested in using the University of Cincinnati brand to support your name, image, or likeness? Below, you will find the latest information on UC policy and educational materials when it comes to incoporating the University's brand into your NIL. NIL Brand Request Form NIL Brand Request Form All requests to use the UC brand with any NIL activities must be submitted using the above Brand Request Form. Once the form is submitted, the request will be reviewed by the Trademarks & Licensing Office. Promotional uses that involve a business will be shared with UC Athletics and Bearcats Sports Properties for review and response. Requests for commercial use of UC's brand will be managed by the Trademarks & Licensing Office. Student-athletes will receive an email that provides information related to their request within 5 business days. UC Corporate Partners The brands listed below make substantial annual investments to the University of Cincinnati and it is possible that a conflict will exist if your proposed NIL agreement conflicts with a current University of Cincinnati agreement. Please note, this is not a complete list, but examples of partners include: AAA Aramark CBTS Cincinnati.com Cincinnati Bell Donatos Fifth Third Bank Follett Gatorade John Morrell Kroger Mellenium Business Systems NovaCare Rehabilitation Pepsi PNC Bank Skyline Chili Toyota UC Health Under Armour US Bank NIL FAQs Does the University of Cincinnati allow a student athlete to use the University's brand for NIL activities? right arrow down arrow Yes, with approval from the University of Cincinnati's Trademarks & Licensing Office. Do I need permission before using my UC uniform or gear for NIL activities? right arrow down arrow Yes, student-athletes must request permission prior to engaging in any NIL activity that requires the use of UC Athletics uniforms, equipment, or gear. How does a student-athlete request approval for use of UC's brand with NIL activities? right arrow down arrow All requests to use UC's brand must be submitted using the NIL Brand Request Form. Once the form is submitted, the request will be reviewed by the Trademarks & Licensing Office. Promotional uses that involve a business will be shared with UC Athletics and Bearcats Sports Properties for review and response. Requests to use UC's brand on a product will be managed by the Trademarks & Licensing Office. Student-athletes will receive an email that provides information related to their request within 5 business days. Can a student-athlete identify themselves as a "Cincinnati student-athlete" in NIL activities? right arrow down arrow A student-athlete need not obtain University of Cincinnati approval to identify her/himself in a factual manner as "University of Cincinnati [sport/player]", "Cincinnati [sport/player]", or [Bearcats sport/player]" in print, radio, and/or television advertising, so long as there is no other use of University of Cincinnati marks, jerseys, red and black colors, etc. Student-athletes will need to disclose the NIL details to Athletics Compliance through ARMS. Can a student-athlete use UC produced images or game related video clips in NIL activities? right arrow down arrow Requests to use photographs and video are evaluated and may require additional approval from copyright holders. This information should be provided in the NIL Brand Request Form. Are there business categories that are not permitted for any NIL agreements? right arrow down arrow Yes, see list of partners above. Please note, this is not a complete list but examples of partners. Can student-athletes work with companies that conflict with sponsors and contractual partners of the University? right arrow down arrow A student-athlete may not enter into a contract that contains a provision that conflicts with the University of Cincinnati's own contractual obligations. Athletics will review student-athlete disclosures for potential conflicts. If a term of a proposed student-athlete contract conflicts with UC's contractual obligations, Athletics will instruct the student-athlete regarding required modifications. A list of current partners can be found listed above in the 'UC Corporate Partners' section. Important Links UC's NIL Brand Request Form List of University of Cincinnati Licensed Vendors State of Ohio's NIL Bill Disclosures 101 for Social Media Influencers University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 licensing@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top