Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Religious Life “At Princeton, we learn from each other through what makes us different. We refract the content of our courses and daily interactions through the lens of our life experiences and those things we believe (or don’t); they are the foundation for the richest kind of intellectual, spiritual and personal growth.” The Rev. Dr. Alison Boden Dean of religious life and the chapel Religious Life at Princeton A place for all — this sentiment is behind all that we do at Princeton to support the religious and secular communities on campus. Princeton is nonsectarian, and religious life here is characterized by its depth and diversity, reflecting our community of people from around the world and their interest in seeking meaning in their lives. Along with providing spiritual counseling, the Office of Religious Life will support you in the broadest kinds of exploration of religion, ethics, public policy and community well-being. The office, based in Murray-Dodge Hall, brings community members together for interfaith programming, and a variety of chaplaincies and student groups allow you to further your spiritual growth and learn about other traditions. Learn More Programs & Events You will have many ways to engage with faith at Princeton — interfaith councils for undergraduates and graduate students, worship services, musical choirs and concerts, meditation, study of sacred texts and trips to explore how religion is practiced in other cultures. The campus celebrates many spiritual events within the soaring walls of the Princeton University Chapel, from its annual interfaith Baccalaureate service for graduating seniors and weekly Christian services to the Hindu celebration of Diwali. Other places for gathering and reflecting on campus include the Murray-Dodge Café (open 3 p.m. to midnight for free cookies and tea), prayer rooms in Murray-Dodge Hall, the Center for Jewish Life, and gardens and natural spaces. Learn More Play video: Play Video: Princeton University's Office of Religious Life supports all faith traditions and dialogue Chaplaincies & Groups The University's 15 chaplaincies and numerous student groups are among the most vibrant centers of faith on campus. The faiths represented include Baha'i, Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Judaism, Islam, Sikhism and Unitarian Universalism. View All Center for Jewish Life/Hillel . Princeton's Center for Jewish Life supports Jewish students of all backgrounds and political viewpoints, as well as the campus as a whole, in exploring Judaism and Jewish culture. The center includes a kosher dining hall. Learn More Muslim Life Program . The Muslim Life Program, a chaplaincy in the Office of Religious Life, helps students practice their faith, fosters community, partners on interfaith relations and education, and encourages service. Learn More One Community Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice