More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Office of the Registrar Enrollment Transcript Registration ORC/Catalog Calendars Faculty About Us Request a Transcript View Term Calendar Registration Schedule Final Exam Schedule Related Sites Timetable Change Link Change Link Office of the Registrar Dartmouth College Office of the Registrar 6014 McNutt Hall Hanover, NH 03755-3541 Phone: (603) 646-2246 Fax: (603) 646-2247 Email: registrar@Dartmouth.EDU Quicklinks DartHub Banner Forms Guides Course Assessment Timetable of Class Meetings Transfer Terms Glossary of Dartmouth Terminology Annual Report Fast Facts about Dartmouth Home > Registrar News and Updates Archive Registrar News and Updates Archive Fall 2022 Fall term 2022 course election for continuing students occurs during the spring term, from May 11 through May 19. Winter 2022 Winter term 2022 enrollment verifications are available. Log onto DartHub and select the "Verify My Enrollment" link. Winter term 2022 enrollment verifications are temporarily unavailable in DartHub. Email Registrar@Dartmouth.edu for assistance. Fall 2021 Fall term enrollment verifications are available on DartHub. Questions about course election? See our course election guides and registration schedules. Dartmouth continues to use the fall 2021 term for winter term 2022. There are slight changes to the 8, 3A, 3B, 6A, and 6B class periods. View the new class schedule for fall 2021 for more information. Summer 2021 See our Global Health Emergency: Academic Policies and FAQs page. Please note that due to the coronavirus, we are currently unable to provide in-person customer service including notarized copies of diplomas, transcripts, or certificates of attendance. This includes Apostilles. Summer term enrollment verifications are available on DartHub. Dartmouth is returning to the previous class schedule for fall 2021 term with some slight changes to the 8, 3A, 3B, 6A, and 6B class periods. View the new class schedule for fall 2021 for more information. Welcome to 2021 summer term! See our registration schedules for more information. Spring 2021 Congratulations, graduates! See our guide on how to request your official transcript. Summer term enrollment verifications are available on DartHub. Welcome to 2021 spring term! Questions about course election? See our course election guides and registration schedules. Winter 2021 Sophomore major declaration is available now. See the DartWorks Guides to get started. Daylight Savings Time begins on Sunday, March 14th in New Hampshire. Remember to set your clocks ahead one hour. Winter term enrollment verifications are available on DartHub. Use the Reduce Course Load tile in DartHub to drop/withdraw from courses. Welcome to 2021 winter term! Questions about course election? See our course election guides and registration schedules. The start of winter term has changed to January 7, 2021. Fall 2020 The Registrar's Office closes for the holiday break December 18 at 4:30 p.m. (EST). Normal business hours resume January 4. All 2020 fall instruction will be graded in accordance with typical grading policies as outlined in the ORC/Catalog. This includes the Non-Recording Option, which will no longer count for majors. The final exam period occurs November 30 through December 4. No undergraduate may be allowed or required to take any final examination prior to the start of the examination period. Daylight Savings Time ends in New Hampshire on Sunday, November 1st. Remember to set your clocks back one hour. See Daylight Savings in the US and Daylight Savings International. Use the Reduce Course Load tile in DartHub to drop/withdraw from courses. Entering student course election period begins September 11 at 8 a.m. (EDT). See the course election guides and registration schedules. The term calendar includes other important dates. See our Global Health Emergency: Academic Policies and FAQs page and fall student FAQ page. Please note that due to the coronavirus, we are currently unable to provide in-person customer service including notarized copies of diplomas, transcripts, or certificates of attendance. This includes Apostilles. Spring 2020 Enrollment verifications are available in DartHub for spring 2020. Students may now use a “Chosen Name” where possible in the course of their Dartmouth education. They may also indicate their gender identity and pronoun. For more information, see the Chosen Name and Identity webpage and email any questions to registrar@dartmouth.edu. Please note: Daylight Savings Time begins on Sunday, March 8th this year, so don't forget to set your clocks ahead one hour Student schedules for spring 2020 are posted in DartHub. The course changes period ends March 6. See our course election reference guide for commonly asked questions and helpful information. All Winter term course schedule adjustments now require a signed withdrawal card, available at the Registrar's Office. See the term calendar for deadline dates. Winter term 2020 enrollment verifications are available. Log onto DartHub and select the "Verify My Enrollment" link. Welcome to 2020 winter term! Questions about course election? See our course election guides and registration schedules. Fall 2019 The DartWorks major declaration system will be open to students in the class of 2022 at the start of winter 2020 term. Students may wish to start creating an academic plan with their intended major department/program. For additional information on the major declaration process, see our DartWorks guides or the ORC/Catalog. Welcome to 2019 fall term! Questions about course election? See our course election guides and registration schedules. The Registrar's Office Annual Report, 2018-19 is now available. Summer 2019 Enrollment verifications are available in DartHub for summer and fall 2019 (returning students). All summer 2019 courses now require Instructor permission to add. Questions about course schedule adjustments? See our course election guides here, and registration schedules here. Congratulations, graduates! See our guide on how to request your official transcript. Welcome to 2019 summer term! Questions about course schedule adjustments? See our course election guides here, and registration schedules here. Spring 2019 Student schedules for summer and fall 2019 are posted in DartHub. See registration schedules for course registration periods. See our course election reference guide for commonly asked questions and helpful information. Expected graduates: review your DartWorks Degree Audit to verify all requirements will be complete at the end of spring term. The audit monitors progress toward completion of degree as well as select major requirements. Any questions in regard to major requirements should be directed to the department/program offering the major. Make sure your Physical Education requirements are complete, including the swim test, and contact the PE department if you note any discrepancy. The deadline to submit transfer term applications for 2019 summer and 2019 fall is April 15. See transfer term regulations and steps. First-Year Students -- Need to select your D-Plan (enrollment pattern)? Learn how to here. Welcome to 2019 spring term! Questions about course schedule adjustments? See our course election guides here, and registration schedules here. The final day for sophomores to declare a major is April 4. See DartWorks guides. Winter 2019 Please note: Daylight Savings Time begins on Sunday, March 10th this year, so don't forget to set your clocks ahead one hour. Student schedules for spring 2019 are posted in DartHub. The course changes period ends March 6. See our course election reference guide for commonly asked questions and helpful information. Winter term 2019 enrollment verifications are available. Log onto DartHub and select the "Verify My Enrollment" link. Welcome to 2019 winter term! Questions about course schedule adjustments? See our course election guides here, and registration schedules here. Dartmouth College is closed for winter break until Tuesday, January 2, 2019. Students and alumni may continue to request official transcripts through this break period, see our transcript information page for details. Fall 2018 Fall term the COI has added two Saturday "special day of classes" to avoid the term start on a major religious holiday, Rosh Hashanah. (The College opened with this schedule one time before, in 2015, also to avoid a term start on a major religious holiday.) Whether a Professor uses those days is up to the Professor since there are X-hours which can be used to supplement regularly scheduled class hours. Winter 2018 Winter term 2018 enrollment verifications available. Log onto BannerStudent and select the "Verify My Enrollment" link. Spring 2018 student schedules now available on BannerStudent. More information on registration schedules is found here. All winter term course schedule adjustments now require a signed drop withdrawal card, available at the Registrar's Office. See the term calendar for deadline dates. Subscribe to the events calendar to view Dartmouth’s term calendar dates and other events. Learn how here. Welcome to 2018 winter term! Questions about course schedule adjustments? See our course election guides here, and registration schedules here. Fall 2017 Official Transcripts available throughout winter break. See the transcript information page for details. Winter 2018 enrollment verifications available throughout winter break. Log onto BannerStudent and select the "Verify My Enrollment" link. Fall term 2017 enrollment verifications available. Log onto BannerStudent and select the "Verify My Enrollment" link. Winter 2018 student schedules now available on BannerStudent. More information on registration schedules is found here. The Timetable of Class Meetings is available for winter term 2018. Students may find it helpful to view the ORC/Catalog 2017-18 and ORC/Catalog New Course Supplement 2017. All fall term 2017 course schedule adjustments now require a signed withdrawal card, available at the Registrar's Office. See the term calendar for deadline dates. All fall term course schedule adjustments now require a signed drop (4th course) or withdrawal card, available at the Registrar's Office. See the term calendar for deadline dates. Welcome to 2017 fall term! Questions about course election? See our course election guides here, and registration schedules here. What are pre-matriculation credits? Learn more here. Summer 2017 Fall term 2017 enrollment verifications for entering and returning students available. Log onto BannerStudent and select the "Verify My Enrollment" link. Summer term 2017 enrollment verifications available. Log onto BannerStudent and select the "Verify My Enrollment" link. All summer term 2017 course schedule adjustments now require a signed drop (4th course) or withdrawal card, available at the Registrar's Office. See the term calendar for deadline dates. Congratulations spring 2017 Graduates – Need to order an official transcript? Click here for more information. Welcome to 2017 summer term! Summer and fall term 2017 enrollment verifications for returning students now available. Log onto BannerStudent and select the "Verify My Enrollment" link. Spring 2017 Spring graduates: remember to check your DartWorks Degree Audit on BannerStudent to confirm your degree progress. Need help reading the audit? See the Guide here. Summer term student schedules are available Thursday, May 11 by 4PM. Course Changes period is May 12-30. Course election Guides are here. All Spring term course schedule adjustments now require a signed withdrawal card, available at the Registrar's Office. See the term calendar for deadline dates. All Spring term course schedule adjustments now require a signed drop (4th course) or withdrawal card, available at the Registrar's Office. See the term calendar for deadline dates. If you plan to be off during 2017 summer or fall terms, remember to change your D-Plan before the deadline to avoid the $100 charge. Learn how to here. Subscribe to the events calendar to view Dartmouth’s term calendar dates and other events. Learn how here. Need to select your D-Plan (enrollment pattern)? Learn how to here. '19s in their 5th term of residence may declare a major in DartWorks . The deadline to submit a major declaration request is April 5. Need to request instructor permission to register for a course? Learn more here. Welcome to 2017 spring term! It is now even easier to order an undergraduate official transcript. For example, the interface has improved and students may now request eTranscript delivery to AMCAS or any participating “CAS” system. Click here for more information. Winter 2017 On Saturday March 18, 2017 between 7:00 am and noon, Information Technology Services will perform a major network upgrade. See the ITS announcement here for more information. Spring term 2017 enrollment verifications now available. Log onto BannerStudent and select the "Verify My Enrollment" link. Daylight Savings Time begins on Sunday, March 12 this year, so don't forget to set your clocks ahead one hour. Spring term 2017 student schedules are available Thursday, February 23 by 4PM. Course Changes period is February 24-March 8. Stop by to say hello and welcome our new Service Specialist, Carole White! DartWorks, the upgraded major/minor declaration system, academic planner, and degree audit, is LIVE. See the Guides here. All course schedule adjustments now require a drop or withdrawal card, available at the Registrar's Office. See term calendar for deadline dates. Winter 2017 enrollment verifications now available. Log onto BannerStudent and select the "Verify My Enrollment" link. Fall 2016 DegreeWorks unavailable 12/20 for an upgrade. Degree Audit will resume 12/21. Planner will resume winter term ’17. You will receive an email announcement with details on the improvements. Official eTranscripts available online throughout winter break. Paper transcript production will be on hold from December 23, 2016 until the College reopens January 4, 2017. Request a transcript. Winter 2017 enrollment verifications available throughout winter break. Log onto BannerStudent and select the "Verify My Enrollment" link. Fall 2016 enrollment verifications available. Log onto BannerStudent and select the "Verify My Enrollment" link. Winter 2017 student schedules available on BannerStudent. It's November 8: remember to vote! The Timetable of Class Meetings is available for winter term. Course Election period is 10/26 to 11/3. Students may find it helpful to view the ORC/Catalog 2016-17 and ORC/Catalog New Course Supplement 2016. All course schedule adjustments now require a withdrawal card, available at the Registrar's Office. See term calendar for deadline dates. The 2016-17 ORC/Catalog and 2016-17 ORC/Catalog Supplement are now available online. NEW! Class times have changed. View the detailed schedule here. Fall term course registration information now available. Welcome entering and returning students! Enrollment verifications available; details on the enrollment verification page. Summer 2016 Congratulations spring 2016 Graduates – Need to order an official transcript? Click here for more information. Spring 2016 Spring graduates – Remember to check your degree audit on BannerStudent to confirm your degree progress. Need help reading the audit? See the Guide here. '18s in their 5th term of residence may now declare a major. The deadline for declaration is April 6, 2016. Questions about transfer terms? Application materials and FAQs can be found on the Study Away page. The deadline to submit applications for 2016 summer and fall terms is April 4. Winter 2016 2016 winter term grades and medians available on the web on March 25 Please note: Daylight Savings Time begins on Sunday, March 13th this year, so don't forget to set your clocks ahead one hour. For a convenient way to view the undergraduate academic calendar, subscribe to it as part of the events calendar: directions. 60-second student survey: Fall 2015 – Course Information results now available. Fall 2015 Official eTranscripts available online throughout winter break. Paper transcript production will be on hold until the College reopens January 4, 2016. Request a transcript. Enrollment verifications available online throughout winter break; details on enrollment verification page. Students may fill out fall term course assessments until January 8, 2016. Fall term grading and transcript production schedule now available. Winter term student schedules are available Thursday, November 12 by 4PM. Course Changes period is November 13-17. The Timetable of Class Meetings is available for winter term. Students may also find it helpful to view Course Assessment: Student View, and the ORC New Course Supplement. Course Election period is 10/28 to 11/5. Graduating seniors - A course with a grade of NR will not satisfy general education or major requirements. Please see the ORC for more information. All Students - Drop cards are now required to drop a course. Cards are available at the Registrar's Office. Fall 2015 enrollment verifications available starting October 5. Log onto BannerStudent and select the "Verify My Enrollment" link. Course Assessment Student View is now available to all students enrolled fall term 2015. Note the following curricular changes: Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Program to WGSS (formerly WGST); Quantitative Social Science Program to QSS (formerly M&SS), and Linguistics (LING) and Cognitive Science (COGS) are now each a separate program. The 2015-16 ORC/Catalog and Supplement are now available online at http://dartmouth.smartcatalogiq.com/en/2015/orc Summer 2015 Welcome class of 2019! New student orientation and fall term course election information now available. Summer term course assessment open until Sept 7. The questionnaire now includes three additional student-initiated questions. The Registrar's Office is closed on Thursday, Sept 3 for a professional development day. Congratulations spring 2015 Graduates – Need to order an official transcript? Click here for more information. Reminder - Saturday June, 27th special day of classes. Spring 2015 Fall term course change period is open. See Timetable of Class Meetings, ORC, and ORC New Course Supplement. Summer term course change period is open. See Timetable of Class Meetings, ORC, and ORC New Course Supplement. DCARS - Dartmouth Course Approval Routing System is off and running. Already 180 courses in the system! Current Students - fall term course election is open. See Timetable of Class Meetings, ORC, and ORC New Course Supplement. Faculty “opt-in” period open May 4-15 to allow students to view certain course assessment results. ‘18’s – summer term course election is open. Be sure to check out the new ORC NEW COURSE SUPPLEMENT Starting April 23, '18s may log into BannerStudent to view the D-Plan that they have been assigned DCARS - Dartmouth Course Approval Routing System and ORC New Course Supplement now available Planning ahead? See our tentative 5-year Calendar Major declaration deadline for '17s in their 5th term of residence is April 8 Deadline for spring term prospective graduates in residence to elect or change to another major or minor is April 3 Winter 2015 How are our systems integrated? See Course Information Flow Interested in the new course numbers? Take a look at our summary of the expanded course numbering system Enrollment verifications available December 24 - January 18; details on enrollment verification page. E-transcripts available December 24- January 5; see transcript page for details. Fall 2014 Faculty votes to approve student access to course assessment results! View currently under development; timeline will be announced at a future date. All Students - Completed fourth-course drop and third-course withdrawal cards are required to remove a course at this point. Both cards are available in the Registrar's Office. 2014 Registrar's Office Annual Report now available (under the About Us tab) New Students - For questions regarding Course Election please refer to the Course Registration Reference Guide - Entering Students Summer 2014 New Students - Deadline to submit your AP scores for viewing on your DegreeWorks Degree Audit before course election is Monday, 9/8. Final submission deadline is the end of fall term. "New Faculty rule that students may have four (rather than three) eligibilities for a 4-course term without extra tuition goes into effect summer term 2014" The Registrar's Office is closed on Wednesday, August 27 for a professional development day The Registrar's Office closes for the holiday break December 18 at 4:30 p.m. (EST). Normal business hours resume January 4. Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 5/20/22