Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager For Faculty and Staff For Alumni For Students For Potential Students Biomed A-Z People Directory Medical [email protected] Show/Hide News and Events Our Community Volunteer Alumni Ambassadors Brown Medical Alumni Association HOST Program Medical Parents Committee Student Ambassadors Giving Contact Us Brown Medical Alumni Association BMAA(pulled as a top on the view page) The Brown Medical Alumni Association (BMAA) connects medical alumni to Brown’s medical school, the University, and the extended medical community. We urge you to become engaged and vocal members of the BMAA, to express your questions and concerns, and to help to shape the future of your medical alma mater. Mission and Purpose The Brown Medical Alumni Association (BMAA) serves as the central organization and primary resource for connecting medical alumni to Brown’s medical school, the University, and the extended medical community. Membership is extended to graduates of Brown’s medical school, graduates of Brown University who hold degrees from other medical schools, faculty members and house staff officers of the medical school. It promotes awareness of the Medical School and the accomplishments of its alumni, connects directly with medical students in an effort to serve, represents alumni interests to the administration of the School and of Brown University, and participates in fundraising initiatives that further The Warren Alpert Medical School’s mission. The BMAA promotes loyalty and pride in the strength and vitality of The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University and its mission. Specifically, the BMAA: Develops communications, programs and community outreach to strengthen the relationship between alumni and Brown. Represents the formal voice of medical alumni as advisers to the University and the Dean of Medicine and Biological Science. Serves as a forum for the exchange of alumni ideas and views. Enhances medical education through the promotion of enduring relationships between alumni, students, residents, parents, and the medical community. Increases the impact of alumni on the Medical School’s future through alumni involvement, volunteerism, and participation in fundraising initiatives, including the Brown Medical Annual Fund. Strengthens the reputation of Brown’s Medical School by promoting the accomplishments and achievements of its graduates to applicants, medical organizations and the general public, and recognizing outstanding contributions to the advancement of medicine. We urge you to become engaged and vocal members of the BMAA, to express your questions and concerns, and to help to shape the future of your medical alma mater. The Office of Alumni Relations is here to help plan alumni events, act as a liaison between medical alumni and Brown, and to support the BMAA's Board of Directors. For more information, please contact Cailie Burns, assistant dean for biomedical advancement, at +1 (401) 368-8155. Awards and Honors The Brown Medical Alumni Association sponsors a number of awards and honors to recognize distinguished alumni, faculty, and members of the community who support The Warren Alpert Medical School's mission and purpose. These awards are typically presented over Commencement-Reunion Weekend. To learn more and nominate, please click on the link specific to each award. The deadline for nominations is Monday, March 1, 2021. Senior Alumni Award for Excellence in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion This award honors alumni who have excelled in their careers, making significant contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion locally, regionally, nationally and/or internationally. Learn more and nominate. Junior Alumni Award for Excellence in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion This award recognizes alumni who have demonstrated leadership in diversity, equity, and inclusion activities that have led to improving awareness and engagement related to diversity in medicine and/or health equity. Learn more and nominate. The Artemis Joukowsky Award This award recognizes a non-physician for long-term, dedicated and meritorious service to the Medical School. It honors those whose devotion to the mission, beliefs, and aspirations of the Medical School have improved the lives of its students, faculty, alumni, and patients. Learn more and nominate. Early Achievement Award This award is presented to an alumnus who has graduated within the past 15 years in recognition of his/her outstanding service to the Medical School, their local community, or a scientific or academic achievement. Learn more and nominate. The Ruth B. Sauber Distinguished Alumni Lectureship The individual selected should embody the philosophy of Brown’s medical education program— medicine as a socially responsible human service profession. They also will have contributed significantly to further the personal and professional development of medical students as well as the community-at-large. Learn more and nominate. The W. W. Keen Award The Keen award recognizes outstanding contributions to medicine, encompassing research, education, leadership or extraordinary contributions to patient care or public health. Learn more and nominate. BMAA Board Nominations Brown Medical Alumni Association Nomination Process The BMAA Board works to bridge the gap between the School, University, and alumni. They sponsor outreach to medical students and serve as Medical School representatives on various committees throughout campus. To be officially considered for a position on the BMAA Board, nominees must submit the nomination form below by Sunday, June 12. The nominating committee deliberates in June, with final decisions to be made before August 1. Complete BMAA Nomination Form For more information, please contact Cailie Burns, assistant dean for biomedical advancement, at [email protected] or +1 (401) 368-8155. BMAA Student Grants BMAA Grants is available to medical student groups that are officially recognized by the Medical Student Senate. These funds will be distributed through the Medical Student Senate. Groups must apply, stating their intentions for the funds, amount requested, history of funding or previous activities, student group leaders, and a brief description of the group. Applications for funding must be received by February 24 and should be submitted using this form. All applications will be reviewed by a committee of BMAA Board members. Groups will be made aware of the decision by March 14. BMAA Grant funding can be distributed to more than one student group. Student groups who receive funding should acknowledge the receipt of a BMAA Grant. A sign posted at an event or notice to participants will suffice. In addition, the BMAA Board requests that photos demonstrating the use of the funds be submitted following the completion of the intended purpose. If you have any questions please contact Cailie Burns, associate dean for Biomedical Advancement, at [email protected]. 2021 BMAA Grant Recipients Sex Ed by Brown Med BrainStation Clinica Esperanza Student Clinic Warren Alpert Medical School’s Global Surgery Student Alliance Rhode Island Medical Navigator Partnership (RIMNP) Student National Medical Association HealthCORE Brown General Surgery Society Board of Directors The Board of Directors is the governing body of the Brown Medical Alumni Association. They work to bridge the gap between the School, University, and alumni. They also sponsor outreach to medical students and serve as Medical School representatives on various committees throughout campus. The Board’s Executive Committee consists of a President, President-elect, Secretary, Treasurer, and Immediate Past President. All officers serve for a two-year term elected by the Board of Directors. Members-at-large serve three-year terms with the possibility of one additional term. The Board of Directors meets twice per year, once during Family Weekend (usually mid- October) and again during Reunion Weekend (Memorial Day Weekend in May). Board members are encouraged to attend both meetings. The majority of the work is done on smaller committees via email and conference calls. The Board is proud to tote a 100% participation rate in support of the Brown Medical Annual Fund for nearly a decade. There is an expectation of participation in the Brown Medical Annual Fund at a level that is comfortable for each member. Executive Committee Patricia A. Buss '78 MD'81 RES'87 President McLean, VA Dr. Buss earned both undergraduate and medical degrees from Brown. After general surgery residency training at the University of Rochester, she completed specialty training in plastic surgery at Brown University. She has a Master of Business Administration degree from George Mason University. She is a diplomate of the American Board of Plastic Surgery, a Fellow of the American College of Surgeons and a Certified Physician Executive. Preetha Basaviah '91 MD'95 Immediate Past President Menlo Park, CA Dr. Basaviah remains active with Brown by interviewing, coaching local students, hosting local Brown events, and serving on the BMAA since 2010-11. View professional bio. Steven Shin ’95 MMS’97 MD’99 President Elect Los Angeles, CA Dr. Shin is executive vice chairman and associate professor of orthopaedic surgery at Cedars-Sinai Health System in Los Angeles. He is also director of the Cedars-Sinai Orthopaedic Center and on the faculty of the Marilyn & Jeffrey Katzenberg Fellowship in hand and upper extremity surgery. Prior to joining the Cedars-Sinai faculty in 2019, Dr. Shin was a partner and the director of hand surgery at the Kerlan-Jobe Orthopaedic Clinic for over a decade. He is the hand consultant to most of the professional teams in Los Angeles. Dr. Shin has been a member of the BMAA board since 2011, having served as treasurer since 2016 and as annual fund chair for over five years. He lives in Los Angeles with his wife and son. View professional bio. Sutchin Patel '00 MD'04 RES'09 Secretary Lake Forest, IL Dr Patel is a urologist practicing in the suburbs of Chicago and an Adjunct Clinical Assistant Professor at the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health where he completed his fellowship in Endourology, Robotics and Minimally Invasive Surgery. He enjoys presenting, publishing and teaching the history of medicine and urology and still collaborates with attendings at Brown in regards to these endeavors. He serves as a consultant to the William P. Didusch Center for Urologic History and has been elected to the American Osler Society for his contributions to the history of medicine. View professional bio. Glenn Mitchell '67 ScM'69 MD'75 RES'77 Treasurer Carlisle, PA Dr. Mitchell is Professor of Healthcare Informatics at Harrisburg University of Science and Technology in Pennsylvania. A retired US Army colonel, Dr. Mitchell commanded a medical teaching center, oversaw multiple overseas humanitarian missions. Dr. Mitchell serves on the board of the Brown Association of Class Leaders, as co-VP of the Class of 1967. He has been a class agent for both the undergraduate and medical schools for many years and is a member of the Carrie Tower Society and the Dean’s Circle. Board Members Liza Aguiar '04 MD'08 RES'13 Providence, RI Dr. Liza Aguiar is an assistant professor of urologic surgery and pediatrics at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. She treats newborns, children, adolescents, and young adults affected by a wide range of genitourinary conditions. Dr. Aguiar brings to Hasbro Children’s urological specialties in laparoscopic and robotic urological surgery. A graduate of The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Dr. Aguiar received her residency training in urology at Rhode Island Hospital and then completed a fellowship in pediatric urology at Connecticut Children’s Medical Center in Hartford, Connecticut. Deborah Archer '95 MD'02, P'22 MD'26, P'24 Fort Collins, CO Dr. Archer, a BMAA member since 2016, is a NHSC scholar and Community Pediatrician who has dedicated her career to working with minority and under-served populations. A recipient of an Echoing Green Fellowship, Dr. Archer founded the Community Health Advocacy Program, which continues to play a role in medical education at Brown. She lives in Colorado with her three children, Imani '22 MD’26, Nia '24, and Darius. View professional bio. Sarah W. Bechta '88 MD'92 Northboro, MA Dr. Bechta is a pediatrician with Southboro Medical Group. She joined the BMAA Board of Directors in 2018. She is an active interviewer with the Brown Alumni Interviewing Program and participates as a Medical Alum match mentor. She lives in Massachusetts with her husband, Paul M. Bechta '87 ScM'88. View professional bio. Rachel Blake MD'16 Boston, MA Dr. Rachel A. Blake is an obstetrician gynecologist at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. Dr. Blake is also a clinical instructor in obstetrics and gynecology at Harvard Medical School. After graduating from Brown Medical School, she completed her residency at Beth Israel. Dr. Blake joined the Brown Medical Alumni Association Board of Directors in 2020. Peter Bridge, M.D. '89 Temple Terrace, FL Dr. Bridge completed his undergraduate degree in Neuroscience at Brown and his medical degree from Washington University in St. Louis. He then completed a combined general surgery/plastic surgery residency at The Ohio State University in Columbus, Ohio. He is a diplomate of the American Board of Plastic Surgery and is currently in private practice in the Tampa Bay Area. He has been active in the Brown Alumni Interviewing Program for several years. Michael Danielewicz '14 MD'18 Philadelphia, PA Dr. Danielewicz was, until recently, a lifelong Rhode Islander. Born and raised just outside Providence, he attended Brown for both undergraduate and medical school through the Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME). He is currently a third year resident in the Department of Family and Community Medicine at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia, with interests in LGBTQ health and wellbeing, geriatrics, and palliative care. In addition to his role on the Board (starting in 2020), Dr. Danielewicz remains connected to Brown by reading applications for the PLME and by delivering lectures for undergraduate immunology classes each year. Amar Desai '97 MD'02 Manhattan Beach, CA Dr. Desai serves as President and CEO of Optum California, one of the largest integrated care delivery networks dedicated to providing high-quality care, outstanding patient and clinician experience, and a lower total cost of care in the diverse communities in Southern California. Dr. Desai received his Bachelor's and Medical Degree from Brown University. He received his Masters in Public Health at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Dr. Desai joined the Brown Medical Alumni Association Board of Directors in the fall of 2019. View professional bio. Kavita V. Ernst '96 MD'00 Berkeley, CA Dr. Ernst is a cardiologist in practice with The Permanente Medical Group. She served as Chief of Cardiology for Kaiser Permanente's Oakland and Richmond Medical Centers for 7 years through January 2017. She has been an interviewer with the Brown Alumni Interviewing Program since 2005. She is a Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine at UCSF on the volunteer clinical faculty. She lives with her husband Sam and their two sons in Berkeley. View professional bio. Jean W. Gillon MD'84 RES'91 Los Altos Hills, CA Dr. Gillon was a faculty member at UCSF and worked as a trauma surgeon at San Francisco General Hospital for 8 years. Dr. Gillon completed her fellowship in Vascular Surgery at UCSF and eventually went into private practice. Dr. Gillon has two sons; one in his third start-up in Palo Alto and the other is a medical student in Dublin, Ireland. Alexes Hazen '87 MD'96, P'18 ScM'20 Brooklyn, NY Dr. Hazen is a New York City based aesthetic and reconstructive surgeon. She offers the best of medical technology and traditional wisdom and strives to create a partnership for a bath to a better and healthier life with her patients. At Brown, she is currently the co-chair of the Advisory Council on Biology and Medicine. She joined the Brown Medical Alumni Association Board of Directors in 2020. View professional bio. Agueda Hernandez '92 MD'96 Miami, FL Dr. Agueda Hernandez is the Chief Medical Officer of the Baptist Health Center for the Advancement of Learning. She received her undergraduate and doctor of medicine degrees from Brown University. Dr. Hernandez joined Baptist Health South Florida in 2012 as the founding associate director of the West Kendall Baptist Hospital/Florida International University Family Medicine. The family medicine program was the first ACGME accredited residency at BHSF. Dr. Hernandez became the program director in 2015. In 2019, she accepted the position of CMO to oversee the expansion of graduate medical education throughout Baptist Health.Hernández Dr. Hernández joined the BMAA Board of Directors in 2018. She previously served on the Board of Governors of the BAA and has been an active interviewer through the Alumni Interviewing Program since 2002. View professional bio. Sivan Hines '84 MD'87 Mableton, GA Sivan Hines is a community pediatrician who has spent her career focused on children, both through her medical practice and through non-profit work Atlanta. Dr. Hines stays active at Brown by conducting interviews for the BASC program and has been area chair for San Antonio and Atlanta, as well as the Southeast Regional Chair. She was appointed to Brown’s Women’s Leadership Council in 2014 and is currently a mentor in the Women’s Launchpad Program. She is married to Jeffrey Hines ’83, MD’86. William A. Kaye '73 MD'76, P'17 Palm Beach, FL Dr. William A. Kaye is a diabetes and endocrine specialist in Palm Beach, Florida. Dr. Kaye has conducted extensive research on diabetes throughout his career. Following his internal medicine training at Brown and its affiliated hospitals, Dr. Kaye completed a fellowship at Cornell University Medical Center at New York Hospital and the Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. View professional bio. Karen Kim '95 MD’99 MMS'99 Wellesley, MA Upon graduating from Brown Medical School, Dr. Kim completed her internship at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston and then her dermatology residency at SUNY Downstate in NY. Dr. Kim is currently a partner at SkinCare Physicians, a multi-physician dermatology group, in Chestnut Hill, MA. She specializes in skin cancer and laser surgery. She lives with her husband, Phillip (Brown '95), and three children in Wellesley MA. She is currently an area co-chair for the Brown Alumni Interviewing Program. Yeuen Kim '92 MD'96, P'24 Palo Alto, CA Yeuen is an internal medicine clinician-educator, completed a clinical research fellowship at UCSF in 2008, and most recently has been working with the SF Dept of Public Health helping navigate outbreak management for vulnerable populations. She enjoys connecting Brown MD and PLME students with colleagues in the SF Bay area and leads narrative medicine/oncology educational interventions and art-gallery-based workshops for learners and faculty as clinical faculty at Stanford University School of Medicine since 2000. Vivek Masson '97 MD'02 New York, NY Dr. Masson is a practicing musculoskeletal radiologist and system chairman of radiology at Carepoint Health in NJ. Dr. Masson completed his undergraduate studies and medical school at Brown in 2002. He then completed his residency training in diagnostic radiology at the New York Presbyterian Hospital/ Cornell and musculoskeletal radiology fellowship at the New York Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia in 2007. He is active in the Brown Connect Summer Institute and has served as an interviewer for Brown. Dr. Masson joins the Brown Medical Alumni Association Board of Directors in the fall of 2021. He lives with his wife Geema ’97 ’02 and their two sons in Manhattan. Tripler Pell MD'05 Canada Dr. Pell is a physician, medical consultant, and Lecturer in the Department of Family and Community Medicine at the University of Toronto. Throughout her medical training in the U.S. and Canada, she has maintained a clinical and research focus on mental health and newcomer health. She has been on the Executive Board of the Canadian Centre for Victims of Torture and as a medical student, served on board of the RI Free Clinic. She currently serves as a Trustee to the John A Hartford Foundation and the Bishop Strachan School. Dr. Pell graduated from Harvard University with a BA in Modern European History, Oxford University with an MSc in the History of Medicine, pursued graduate work at the University of California, San Diego in Medical Anthropology, and received her MD from Brown University (05). She enjoys returning to RI to visit extended friends and family as often as she can and is looking forward to serving the BMAA. She has also enjoyed participating in the Brown Alumni Interviewing Program. Robert Pordy '79 MD'82 Ardsley, NY Dr. Pordy graduated from the 7-Year Medical Program and completed a residency in internal medicine. After a short time in private practice, he joined the pharmaceutical industry. He is currently Vice President of Clinical Sciences at Regeneron, a mid-size biotech in Westchester, NY. He has always had a close tie to our medical school, from being President of the Brown Medical Student Society to being a Charter Fellow of the Brown University Medical Society. Pooja Tandon '96 MD'99 Seattle, WA Dr. Pooja Sarin Tandon is a general pediatrician and researcher at the Seattle Children’s Research Institute and Associate Professor at the University of Washington. Dr. Tandon attended Brown University for undergraduate and medical school (PLME), and completed residency training at the Boston Combined Program in Pediatrics. She completed a general pediatrics research fellowship and a Master of Public Health (MPH) degree at the University of Washington. In addition to clinical work, her research interests include reducing disparities and promoting healthy behaviors, including physical activity. Her research funders include the American Heart Association, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, and the National Institutes of Health. Alexander Tran '15 MD'19 New York, NY Dr. Tran is a first generation Vietnamese-American and New York City transplant with roots in Long Beach, California. He attended Brown for both undergraduate and medical school through the Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME) and is currently completing his Emergency Medicine Residency at The Mount Sinai Hospital & Icahn School of Medicine in New York City. Dr. Tran remains connected to Brown by reading applications for the PLME and joining the BMAA Board of Directors in 2021. Andrew Young '95 MD'01 MPH Long Beach, CA Dr. Young is an ophthalmologist at Lifespan Physician Group. He provides primary eye care and diagnosis and treats common eye conditions. His areas of expertise include the medical and laser treatment of glaucoma. Dr. Young has served on the Board of Directors for the Brown Medical Alumni Association (BMAA) since 2016, and is also involved with the Brown Alumni Interviewing Alumni Ambassadors Brown Medical Alumni Association HOST Program Medical Parents Committee Student Ambassadors Brown Biology and Medicine Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty and Staff Potential Students Alumni Giving to Brown Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, RI 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn SnapChat