Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries German Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs German Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info German Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in German Learn to understand, speak, read and write in German with the Undergraduate Certificate in German in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. Deepen your language and communication competencies through the study of German art, history, literature and media, as well as current business issues in German-speaking countries. The 20-credit German Certificate (Undergraduate) provides students the experience and interpersonal skills required to engage in complex, cross-cultural situations. Required coursework emphasizes aural, pronunciation and oral drills, as well as grammar. The program is tailored to help students achieve their learning goals, whether they want to engage in business with German partners, work in government agencies or in media, or pursue relevant graduate studies. Classes & Curriculum You have four years to satisfy the requirements of the Undergraduate Certificate in German, which is awarded at the completion of your bachelor’s program. It cannot be awarded as a stand-alone program of study or after completion of your bachelor’s degree. The 20-credit German Certificate (Undergraduate) curriculum comprises core courses and one elective course. Core courses include the following. Introduction to German I, II and III Intermediate German for Business I Learn more about German Certificate (Undergraduate) program requirements. Related Graduate Degrees History MA Liberal Arts MLA Business Administration MBA* *Fox School of Business Careers Speaking more than one language can set you apart in today’s global job market. It may increase your marketability and opportunities for career advancement and promotion. According to the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages, acquisition of a second language may help improve standardized test scores, and it may improve memory and problem-solving skills. Additionally, studying a language and its culture can help you develop empathy and global thinking. It can broaden your perspective and help you cultivate a greater understanding of people and, in turn, the world. The critical skills gained from learning a foreign language are directly applicable to today’s rapidly diversifying world and can be used across all fields and disciplines. Students in the Undergraduate Certificate in German program are prepared to work in the following professional areas. Business Education Government service Healthcare International law Journalism Military Nonprofits Public relations Translation Travel and tourism Sciences Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Patricia Melzer is the faculty advisor in the German Department. Phone: 215-204-7752 Email: pmelzer@temple.edu Program Contacts With questions regarding the Undergraduate Certificate in German, contact the following staff member. Michelle Xu is an administrator in the German Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu The following staff members lead the German Department. Cristina Gragnani is chair of the German Department. Phone: 215-204-1816 Email: gragnani@temple.edu Patricia Melzer is the faculty advisor in the German Department. Phone: 215-204-7752 Email: pmelzer@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-GER-CR2+ Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in German Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info