Skip to main content Main Menu Explore Careers Getting Started Career Exposure How to Gain Experience Industries & Career Paths Pursuing a Graduate Degree Diversity & Identity Support UMD Career Courses Career Resources by College Career Advising Find Jobs & Internships Resumes & Cover Letters Building Your Network Search Strategies Interviewing Internships Offers & Salary Negotiation Gap Year Opportunities Student Employment Events Event Calendar Career & Internship Fairs Workshops Industry Panels Host An Event or Interview Who We Help Students Employers Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Employers Careers4Terps Find a meaningful career Helping you pursue your ambitions and navigate all steps of the career journey Meet With Us Careers4Terps Careers4Terps is our online career management tool for UMD students and alumni. Learn about Careers4Terps. Have an account? Login here. Please Fill Out the 2022 Graduation Survey! Fill Out the 2022 Graduation Survey Upcoming Events May 31, 2022 Restaurant Leader Training Program - H-1B Sponsorship Opportunity Available WHERE HUSTLE MEETS OPPORTUNITY View Event Details for Restaurant Leader Training Program - H-1B Sponsorship Opportunity Available June 1, 2022 Bank of America: More Than a Bank - Spotlight on Different Summer 2023 Internships Join us as we shine a virtual spotlight on different Summer 2023 Internships we have to offer! You will have the opportunity to hear from experts in the fields and network with representatives from Bank of America. View Event Details for Bank of America: More Than a Bank - Spotlight on Different Summer 2023 Internships June 2, 2022 Bank of America: Learn How We Are Impacting Communities We're demonstrating our dedication to fair, ethical, and responsible business practices as we engage with our employees, clients, vendors and communities around the world. We're helping communities and individuals thrive by advancing economic and social progress and by being a gr View Event Details for Bank of America: Learn How We Are Impacting Communities See all events Student Support Below are quick links to the most frequently accessed content on our website. If you’re sure of what you want, simply click through. Career Exploration How to Get Started Take a Self Assessment Graduate & Doctoral Studies Gaining Experience Internships Student Employment More Ways to Gain Experience Job & Internship Tools Careers4Terps Writing a Resume and Cover Letter Interviewing Explore All Student Resources A Career You Hadn’t Considered Your career path doesn't have to be linear, and there may be options for you that you may not have considered. Learn more about your field and the industry here. Explore Industries and Career Paths Who We Serve The University of Maryland Career Center has resources for everyone. Students We’ve got your back with every aspect of your career journey. It's never too early to begin the process, so whether you just want to know about the resources available or you're ready to chart a course, let us help you! Learn More Employers We look forward to partnering with you to identify the student populations that best suit your needs and then working to develop a customized strategy to help you achieve your recruiting goals. Learn More Alumni There is no better way for a student to learn about a career than to hear from someone working in that industry. We can also help you change careers if you feel unfulfilled in your current position. Learn More Faculty & Staff There are numerous ways faculty can assist students with career development. As primary influencers of students, faculty that emphasize the importance of career readiness inside and outside of the classroom make an enormous impact. Learn More Parents & Families As a parent or family member, you have a significant influence on the career choices made by your student. Learn More Bring Your Complete Self to Work Myriad identities, skills, experiences and perspectives are welcomed by organizations for operational effectiveness and institutional advancement. Diversity & Identity Support 91% Total placement of most undergraduates degree recipients entering the workforce. $66,727 Average Salary 93% Employed undergraduates degree recipients in positions directly related to their career goals (55%) or is a stepping stone (38%) towards their career goals. View previous stat View next stat We enjoyed conversing about my background in activism and my senior project so much that we met again to talk about filmmaking techniques. I was offered a production assistant position with his affiliate with a film that he's creating. Lastly, [my Intern for a Day host] told me that I could intern at his office and use the TV studio for any short film I wanted to make. K. Coleman Student connected with a media professional through the Intern for a Day program provided by the University Career Center & The President’s Promise About Our Team Meet With Us Blog Newsletter Signup Visit Careers4Terps Terp Guide University Career Center & The President's Promise 3100 Hornbake Library, South Wing 301.314.7225 Visit our Twitter Visit our Facebook Visit our Youtube Careers4Terps Login Terrapins Connect Accessibility Privacy Policy Back to Top