Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Resources Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Prospective Students Current Students Research About Partner News Scientific Illustrations and Editing Journal Cover Illustrations The communications and marketing department would like to make all faculty aware that a company called Ella Maru Studio is now an approved vendor in our BuyWays procurement system. According to its website, Ella Maru Studio combines Ph.D.-level scientific knowledge with professional art design to produce scientific images and animations for articles, proposals and books. Its images have been featured on more than 100 covers of high-impact scientific magazines. If you are interested in acquiring an illustrated cover image or other images for your journal article, Ella Maru Studio is one of your options and has been recommended by previous clients. However, keep in mind that this is just one of many options. You remain free, of course, to use any vendor you choose. Ella Maru is a fee-based studio. You submit a proposal, receive an estimate, and then decide whether you wish to employ the studio’s services. The communications and marketing department team is available to lend assistance during this process, if needed. Each project is different, but an estimated price range for a cover illustration would range from $750 to $1,000-plus, depending on complexity and time restraints. Keep in mind that Ella Maru Studio is an independent company with no financial ties to Clemson University. Please also note that the image on this page is a generic example of an illustration, and was not created by Ella Maru Studio. ➥ Submit a proposal to Ella Maru Studio Journal Article Editing If you are interested in using an editing service for your journal article, freelance editor Godfrey Kimball is one of your options and has been recommended by previous clients. Kimball, who is a former employee of Clemson University, is now an approved vendor in the Clemson BuyWays procurement system. Kimball charges $40 per hour with typical projects taking two to five hours, depending on scope. Kimball is just one of many options; you remain free to use any vendor you choose. ➥ Submit a proposal to Godfrey Kimball Research Home Centers and Institutes OSP/Submit Proposal Post Award Illustrations/Editing Departments Biological Sciences Chemistry Genetics and Biochemistry School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences Physics and Astronomy Centers and Institutes Clemson Center for Human Genetics Clemson Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovation Center Center for Excellence in Math and Science Education Life Sciences Outreach Center Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center Give to the College Like Us on Facebook Copyright © 2019 Clemson University College of Science | 118 Long Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3015 | Email Us