Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Denim Day Events Past Event Denim Day Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 25, 2018 9:00 AM Low Library, 535 W. 116 St., New York, NY 10027 Rotunda Show Map April is Sexual Violence Awareness Month. During this month of education and awareness, Columbia University participates in Denim Day. The Denim Day campaign was created in response to a ruling by the Italian Supreme Court where a 1998 rape conviction was overturned because the justices felt that since the victim was wearing tight jeans she must have helped her rapist remove them, thereby implying consent. The next day, the women in the Italian Parliament wore jeans to show solidarity with the victim. Ever since, wearing jeans on Denim Day has become an international symbol of protest against erroneous and dangerous attitudes about sexual assault On April 25, 2018 Columbia community members can make a social statement with their fashion statement. Wear jeans on this day as a visible sign of support for survivors of sexual assault. Take the pledge and get involved at Columbia, visit https://health.columbia.edu/denim Attend the SVR Denim Day rally at 9:00 a.m. in the Low Library Rotunda to learn more about the movement and show your support. See more at denimdayinfo.org. Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close