We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × 1 2 3 4 Giving Day 2022 #CPPGivingDay is almost here! Starting on Wednesday, April 20 at 9 a.m. through Thursday, April 21 at 9 p.m., these 36 hours will lead to 365 days of impact. Learn More About Giving Day This slide contains video without audio. The description of the video is "Various screenshots of campus" A Transformative Gift President Coley announces a landmark $40 million gift to Cal Poly Pomona. Read More Broncos Care CPP Community Unites to Support Students’ Basic Needs Read Full Story The Confidence to Persist Underrepresented, first-generation and low-income students break barriers, sometimes against all odds Read the Full Story Previous Next Give to Cal Poly Pomona Home Why Give? Ways to Give Where to Give About Us Career Opportunities Contact Us Give to Cal Poly Pomona Your Gift Makes a Difference! Through gifts large and small, we can touch the lives of current and future students, promote research, support programs and help the greater community. Every dollar of support from each donor contributes to Cal Poly Pomona's mission of providing lifelong learning to students. We thank you for your interest in making a lasting difference at Cal Poly Pomona. MAKE A GIFT NOW The Cal Poly Pomona Philanthropic Foundation The Cal Poly Pomona Philanthropic Foundation serves as the leader for the university’s fund-raising efforts, continuing to build on our achievements. By broadening partnerships and deepening financial support, the foundation strengthens the university's educational mission by increasing student scholarships, faculty research initiatives and projects that will benefit the economic vitality of the state and region. Learn more about the CPP Philanthropic Foundation Impact of Giving View Stories President's Circle Learn More about President's Circle Ways to Give Explore Giving Options Alumni Association Join Now! 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers