Skip to main content Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Close Yale School of Art 1156 Chapel Street, POB 208339 New Haven, Connecticut, 06520-8339 Pause animations Play animations Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Pause animations Play animations This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Unknown Yale School of Art Alumni and Faculty to Participate in Prestigious Venice Biennale February 9, 2022 The Venice Biennale’s visual identity for the 2022 edition is based on works by Felipe Baeza. Courtesy of the Venice Biennale. The School of Art is pleased to share that both alumni and faculty have been announced as participants in the 59th International Art Exhibition of the Venice Biennale. For over 120 years, the Venice Biennale has been considered one of the most prestigious cultural institutions in the world, with over 500,000 visitors at its most recent art exhibition. School of Art alumni Felipe Baeza ’18, Ficre Ghebreyesus ’02, Elle Pérez ’15 and Critic in Photography, and Christina Quarles ’16, as well as Assistant Professor and Acting Director of Graduate Studies in Sculpture Aki Sasamoto, will all have work represented. Additionally, the Venice Biennale’s visual identity for the 2022 edition is based on works by Felipe Baeza ’18. The 2022 Venice Biennale, titled The Milk of Dreams and curated by Cecilia Alemani, will be open to the public from April 23 to November 27, 2022 at the Giardini and the Arsenale, Venice. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody All Yale School of Art news >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody © 2022 Support the School Visiting Instagram Facebook YouTube Contact Sitemap Accessibility at Yale This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Unknown