Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita Academics Education Standardized Patient Program Staff Our Campuses Give Now Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita Our Campuses Give Now Info for Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita Education Education SOM Curriculum Electives Curriculum International Electives Curriculum Graduation Competencies Visiting Medical Students Standardized Patient Program Standardized Patient Program General Information For Standardized Patients For Students For Faculty Staff Staff Doctor of Medicine Program-Wichita As a medical student at the University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita, you will become part of an outstanding medical education program. At the University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita, you'll have ample opportunity for hands-on experience and close interaction with faculty as part of our community-based medical education environment. While the majority of medical schools are tied to a hospital, our campus in Wichita is community-based thanks to more than 900 volunteer faculty inside three partner hospitals (Robert J. Dole VA Medical Center, Wesley Medical Center and Ascension Via Christi), as well as in doctors’ offices across the state. With a one-stop-shop Academic & Student Affairs office, you can take advantage of financial aid, enrollment, academic and many more services to help you be a successful student - and it's all in one place. Tour our campus during one of our upcoming open houses, see what Wichita has to offer and discover why so many medical students are proud to call Wichita their home. Admission & Aid Curriculum Open House Meet one of the future doctors training here in Wichita and take a tour of our campus: KU School of Medicine-Wichita Emphasizing Inclusion KU School of Medicine-Wichita Welcome to our campus ACE curriculum Learn about our new ACE curriculum. Applying to KU School of Medicine M.D. Program - Get complete details about applying to KU School of Medicine, including the application requirements, timeline and selection process. Contact Us Academic & Student Affairs, 316-293-2603 KU School of Medicine-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Give Now 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.