Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Sociology About Us People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Goals Areas of Expertise Values Program Rankings Take Action Community Out of Chaos Online B.A. Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebook Home Sociology About About Sociology Goals The goals of the Department of Sociology includes promoting outstanding research, teaching, practical experience and applied opportunities, technical expertise, globalization, and service and community outreach. Areas of Expertise We are a comprehensive department with particular expertise in the following areas: Social Inequality - studies of gender, race, class, and social movements Institutions and Organizations - studies of religion, family, education, economy, and medicine Comparative Social Change - studies of community, development, globalization, and quality of life Deviance and Social Psychology - studies of mental health, marginality, small-group interaction, social identities, and changing belief patterns Methodology - studies incorporating qualitative and quantitative methods, as well as the latest technology for teaching and research Values All of our activities are conducted in accord with our values: Integrity - at all times Diversity - inclusion of everyone regardless of gender, race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, or disability Community - of scholars, teachers, and people Compassion - toward everyone Excellence - commitment to excellence in research, teaching, and service Creativity - utilizing creative and innovative solutions to all challenges Collaboration - with colleagues and students inside and outside the department and University Notes by Artist of the Mural in the Department of Sociology Conference Room (Clement Hall 203) Community Out Of Chaos As I created my design, I wanted to portray the idea of chaos to community in Memphis. As a viewer enters the space of the conference room, I want to draw their eye to the white image of the monumental MLK assassination. This was a pivotal event in the history of Memphis. It marks a time of a community in chaos. However, it is almost disguised by the blue sky surrounding it. The outstretched arms of the pointing figures draw the viewer's gaze across the image until the expectant mother is in view. A faint overlaying of the Memphis school zones brings the issues of education into the conversation. She speaks to the present but is concerned for the future. Behind her is a dense entanglement of crossing wires and cords of color. These lines of communication represent the city (urban). The lines propel forward, toward the translucent figures. These people could represent anyone. They bring questions to mind. Who are they? Although they are grouped together, are they in conflict? These people could represent anyone. The veins on the face of the first figure speak to the medical history of Memphis. Is this man holding his head up with pride or is he still searching for a cure? In the background, the Levitt Shell is represented during its time of abandonment but this "storm" has now passed because of the restoration community brings. The cords continue to wind around the figures and come together to create a tree. The tree represents a community. This brings to mind the people who have come together to preserve Overton Park, build the Green Line, etc. The branches become the hands that work together. This area of the design is much more positive than the first image of the assassination. However, the stormy skies create a sense of tension. You will also notice the tracks behind the tree. These represent barriers in society, specifically in Memphis. I feel that my design is full of life and speaks to the vibrant culture of Memphis. The bands of color are like waves of the sounds of Beale Street. Throughout the design, I wanted to represent movement and tension. In every community tension exists. Tension can be the beginning of a positive change or can have a negative outcome. Regardless, that is the nature of community. -Charli Byrd Ardrey Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/26/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.