More information will be posted here when it becomes available. Emergency215-573-3333 A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Open menu Departments About Our Division Office of the Vice President Finance & Administration Fire & Emergency Services Penn Police Department PennComm & Emergency Communications Security Services Security Technology Special Services Emergency Preparedness PennReady UPennAlert Emergency Notification System Emergency Procedures Safety Initiatives HELP Line: 215-898-HELP Penn Guardian 24/7 Walking Escort Service DPS “Top 10 List” Penn Alternative Response Unit (AR-1) Operation Theft Awareness Self-Defense Courses Bicycle, Motor Vehicle, and Pedestrian Safety Information Clery Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Clery Crime Log CSA Crime Statistics Reporting Data Form Media Videos News and Events Photos Contact General Contact Information DPS Administration Directory Send Us Feedback Commend a Member of DPS Report a Crime Police Complaint Form Silent Witness Form Student Project Request Form Presentation Request Form Request a Special Property Check Menu Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Commend a Member of DPS The Division of Public Safety is proud of the standard of excellence it provides our community. Twice a year the Division of Public Safety’s Commendation and Swearing in Ceremony celebrates and honors the work of our dedicated law enforcement and public safety professionals. Commendations of merit and commendatory letters are presented to members of the University of Pennsylvania Police Department (including the Detective Unit), the PennComm Center (Communications Command-Control Center), and Allied Barton Security. Letters of recognition are also given to outside law enforcement agencies including the Philadelphia Police Department and to various citizens from the community. The Vice President for Public Safety also administers the Oath of Office to new police recruits. If you had a positive experience that you would like to share with us, please fill out the form below. We would love to hear from you! Your commendation of exceptional service provides the individuals you acknowledge with a greater sense of pride which increases morale and motivation. What department(s) are you writing a commendation for? Penn Police Department Allied Universal Public Safety Officers PennComm & Emergency Communications Special Services Department Security Technology Fire & Emergency Services Office of the Vice President Finance & Administration Additional Information Person's Name Location of Occurance Time of Day Tell us about your experience:: Your Contact Information (optional) Name First Last Phone Email Navigate This Section Contact DPS Administration Directory Commend a Member of DPS Police Complaint Form Presentation Request Form Send Us Feedback Silent Witness Form Report a Crime Student Project Request Form Emergencies 215.573.3333 General Information 215.898.7297 Campus Phones 511 4040 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 Latest Tweets The daily crime log for the Penn Patrol Zone is always available on our website: ow.ly/9uqm50wydj0 and for re… twitter.com/i/web/status/15319… About 6 hours ago Quicklinks Emergency Preparedness 24/7 Walking Escort Theft Awareness RAD Self Defense Courses Penn Guardian UPennAlert Explore Departments Emergency Preparedness University of Pennsylvania Police Department (UPPD) Information and Statistics Safety Initiatives Report Accessibility Issues & Get Help Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy Connect with DPS Receive DPS Traffic Advisories Learn About Penn Guardian © 2016 The University of Pennsylvania. 4040 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 215.898.7297 | Contact Us Rotate Your Phone to Portrait Mode Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset