Skip to content Menu Yale Architecture YSoA Faculty Search Publications Deborah Berke Dean and Professor Deborah Berke, FAIA, LEED AP is an architect, educator, and the Dean of the Yale School of Architecture. She has been a Professor (adjunct) at Yale since 1987. In 2012, she was the inaugural recipient of the Berkeley-Rupp Prize at the University of California at Berkeley, which is given to an architect who has advanced the position of women in the profession and whose work emphasizes a commitment to sustainability and the community. In 2022, she received the AIA/ACSA Topaz Medallion, the highest honor in architectural education that reflects the recipient’s commitment to service to the profession, academy, and society. She is the founder of the New York-based architecture firm Deborah Berke Partners. Among firm’s most significant works are the Cummins Distribution Headquarters in Indianapolis, Indiana, the Rockefeller Arts Center at SUNY Fredonia, the Lewis International Center at the Harvard Law School, the University of Pennsylvania Meeting and Guest House, and the new residential colleges at Princeton. Deborah and the firm are the subject of two books: Deborah Berke, a critical monograph (Yale University Press, 2008) and House Rules (Rizzoli, 2016), which focuses on the firm’s residential work and offers practical and poetic advice for better living. The Architecture of Adaptation, which argues for the cultural and sustainable imperative to reuse built fabric, is forthcoming from Monacelli. She is a board member of the James Howell Foundation, a member of the board of directors of Yaddo, and advisor to the Norman Foster Foundation. She was a founder and vice president of DesignNYC, a founding trustee of the Design Trust for Public Space, a trustee of the National Building Museum, chair of the board of advisors of the Buell Center for the Study of American Architecture at Columbia University, a trustee of the Brearley School, and vice president of the AIA New York Chapter. She currently serves as a member of the Pritzker Architecture Prize jury. Deborah is a graduate of the Rhode Island School of Design and The City University of New York. In 2005, she was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Fine Arts from the Rhode Island School of Design. In 2017, her firm received the National Design Award from the Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum. In 2022, she was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Letters. Education MUP, The City University of New York BArch, Rhode Island School of Design Honors Thesis, Architectural Association BFA, Rhode Island School of Design Practice Deborah Berke Partners Courses Course Title Instructors Semester 3204b Spring 2015 Materials & Meaning Deborah Berke Publications Working Artifice House Rules: An Architect’s Guide to Modern Life Rizzoli Architecture of the Everyday Princeton Architectural Press Work Related items News Dean Berke’s firm to design new Princeton residential colleges Close Yale Architecture Search Yale Architecture Search × Academics Overview M.Arch I M.Arch II M.E.D. Ph.D. Joint-degree Programs Undergraduate Studies The Jim Vlock First Year Building Project Student Travel Awards and Fellowships Explore all Courses Admissions Overview Requirements Apply Tuition and Fees Financial Aid International Students Calendar Events Academic Calendar Exhibitions Publications Overview Perspecta Retrospecta Constructs Books About the School Overview News History and Objectives Tribal Lands Acknowledgement Yale Urban Design Workshop Yale Center for Ecosystems in Architecture Advanced Technology Support the School Staff Visiting Contact Faculty Explore all Faculty Endowed Professorships Students Recent Graduates Student Work Student Groups Career Development Alumni Overview All Images Forms and Resources Make a Gift School Policies Jobs at YSoA Accreditation Information Yale logo Facebook Instagram Belonging at Yale Accessibility Land Acknowledgement Colophon Yale University Search Submit Close Loading in progress