Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni About Us Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) is a clinical, research, and educational enterprise located on a campus in northern Manhattan. We are home to four professional colleges and schools that provide global leadership in scientific research, health and medical education, and patient care, including: Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons College of Dental Medicine School of Nursing Mailman School of Public Health Overview of CUIMC Colleges and Schools Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Founded in 1767, Columbia’s Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons was the first school in the United States to award the MD degree and its legacy of innovation continues. In 2018, it became the first medical school in the nation to replace student loans with scholarships for all students who qualify for financial aid. At the heart of medical education is the 100,000-square-foot, 14-floor Vagelos Education Center with a simulation center, anatomy lab, and classroom and study spaces. Faculty are among the best-funded researchers in American medical schools, and for eight consecutive years, the college’s grant funding from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) has outpaced growth of the NIH budget. College of Dental Medicine Founded in 1916, Columbia’s College of Dental Medicine is a leader in applying clinical, research, and public policy approaches to oral health issues. Its Center for Precision Dental Medicine is at the forefront of providing personalized dental services, with 48 dental chairs for patient care and instruction, simulation training equipment, and technology to advance data sciences. The college is also the largest provider of primary and specialty oral health care in the northern Manhattan communities of Harlem, Washington Heights, and Inwood. School of Nursing Founded in 1892, Columbia’s School of Nursing was the first to award a master’s degree in a clinical nursing specialty and is the nation’s oldest continuous program in nurse midwifery. The school’s seven-floor, 68,000-square-foot nursing building with a simulation lab provides a learning environment to prepare students for the ever-changing demands of today’s clinicians, researchers, and educators. The school also operates the Nurse Practitioner Group, a primary care faculty practice serving midtown Manhattan, Morningside Heights, and Washington Heights. Mailman School of Public Health Founded in 1922, Columbia’s Mailman School of Public Health has programs in more than 100 countries and is a leader in HIV/AIDS, public mental health, environmental health, global health, and urban health. Nearly 40 percent of full-time Mailman faculty hold joint or interdisciplinary appointments in 34 Columbia departments, schools, and centers. Among schools of public health, it is the sixth-largest recipient of grant funding from the National Institutes of Health. The school has more than 20 research centers, including the Center for Infection and Immunity, ICAP at Columbia, and the Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center. Patient Care Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) is a leader in providing comprehensive patient care and offers a range of general and specialized medical, dental, and nursing services. We have more than 1,800 physicians, surgeons, dentists, and nurses in locations throughout the New York City metro area. We know each patient is unique. Our knowledge of innovative treatments is enhanced by our compassion for patients and their families and a devotion to maintaining the highest standard of care. Visit ColumbiaDoctors to learn more about patient care. View a list of all CUIMC hospital affiliates. CUIMC Fosters Strong Ties to NYC We are proud of our relationship with the surrounding Washington Heights community, of which many members have roots in the Dominican Republic and other Spanish-speaking countries. The CUIMC Office of Government and Community Affairs serves as the primary liaison between the medical center and the community. Our medical center has many active research and clinical programs in northern Manhattan, including Harlem, Washington Heights, and Inwood. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top