SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Master of Science in Engineering/MBA Master of Science in Engineering/MBA Jump To A Section Overview Curriculum Faculty Admissions Overview In two years, you can earn a master's in Engineering and an MBA, and graduate ready to take on a leadership role in Dallas's booming tech sector or beyond. The dual degree combines courses from 12 master's programs offered by the Lyle School of Engineering with courses at the Cox School of Business, and takes advantage of the Cox One-Year MBA program. If you're a recent graduate or early-career professional in the engineering and technology sectors, this is a time- and cost-effective way to accelerate your career by building business and management skills, along with an engineering specialization and deep connections in the industry. See the SMU Cox One-Year MBA program See the SMU Lyle School of Engineering master's programs “Whether in a tech start-up, in an established corporation or in the nonprofit sector, the role of engineers is complex and changing. This dual degree prepares them to impact the bottom line while implementing the technologies their organizations need.” Lyle Dean Marc P. Christensen 8.5.5 Curriculum During your first two semesters, you'll complete the required courses for the degree of your choice among the Lyle School's 12 master's. Then, in the summer term and continuing into fall of year two, you'll get a broad education in the fundamentals of business with the ability to specialize your MBA in one of our 8 departments. Through meetings with industry leaders and applied leadership projects you'll gain a real-world understanding of what you're learning in the classroom — there's even a simulated trading room at Cox, complete with Bloomberg terminals. And during an optional weeklong international trip, you'll have the opportunity to experience firsthand how business is conducted in some of the world’s vital economic capitals. Faculty See All MBA Faculty Robin Pinkley Professor, Management and Organizations The recipient of SMU's Golden Mustang Award for innovative teaching, Robin is a recognized authority on strategic negotiation and conflict management. She has consulted with numerous corporate and government organizations. Shreekumar R. Bhaskaran Associate Professor of Information Technology and Operations Management Sreekumar Bhaskaran’s research focuses on new product development and innovation. Sreekumar was named among the "Best 40 B-School Profs Under the Age of 40” in the Poets&Quants ranking of business school professors. Marcus Butts Associate Professor of Management and OrganizationsMarilyn and Leo Corrigan Endowed Research Professor Organizational behavior is where psychology and management meet. Learn this vital science from Marcus Butts. See Marcus Butts' full bio Admissions Applicants must meet both the Lyle School of Engineering admission requirements (general school requirements and program admission requirements) for the specific Lyle Master of Science degree and the Cox School of Business One-Year MBA requirements. To apply for this program an applicant must complete the following: Gain admission into the Lyle School of Engineering master's program Once you have gained admission into the Lyle School of Engineering Master's of Science program, please submit a free online application by clicking the "Apply" button listed at the top of any SMU Cox webpage and submit all required information and documents (essays, unofficial transcripts, resumes) within the application. Please email mbainfo@smu.edu if you have any questions Personal Interview with the Cox School of Business Admissions Staff - a member of the Cox admissions team will reach out to set up an interview with you after submission of the application and application review has been completed. For more information, contact Lyle School Graduate Degree Programs Admissions Next Steps Questions? Not sure which program fits your needs? Reach out to our team. Request More Information Get the Brochure SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter