Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training People News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Upcoming Events Jun 2 1:00pm - 5:00pm Center for Translational Neuroscience Spring Retreat 2022 Please join us for a half-day retreat, featuring faculty speakers from the Center for Translational Neuroscience. Refreshments and Food to Follow. Speakers include: Ashley Webb, PhD Justin Fallon, PhD Alvin Huang, MD PhD Chun Geun Lee, PhD Judy Liu, MD PhD Stephen Helfand, MD Eric Morrow, MD PhD Nicola Neretti, PhD Gregorio Valdez, PhD Lalit Beura, PhD More Information CTN Jun 8 All Day The 5th Multidisciplinary Conference on Reinforcement Learning and Decision Making The 5th Multidisciplinary Conference on Reinforcement Learning and Decision Making (RLDM2022) Over the last few decades, reinforcement learning and decision making have been the focus of an incredible wealth of research spanning a wide variety of fields including psychology, artificial intelligence, machine learning, operations research, control theory, animal and human neuroscience, economics and ethology. Key to many developments in the field has been interdisciplinary sharing of ideas and findings. The goal of RLDM is to provide a platform for communication among all researchers interested in “learning and decision making over time to achieve a goal”. The meeting is characterized by the multidisciplinarity of the presenters and attendees, with cross-disciplinary conversations and teaching and learning being central objectives along with the dissemination of novel theoretical and experimental results. The main meeting will be single-track, consisting of a mixture of invited and contributed talks, tutorials, and poster sessions. Confirmed Speakers Josh Tenenbaum, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Yunzhe Liu, University College London Jill O’Reilly, University of Oxford Nao Uchida, Harvard University Melissa Sharpe, University of California, Los Angeles Alexandra Rosati, University of Michigan Frederike Petzschner, Brown University Oriel Feldman-Hall, Brown University Scott Niekum, University of Texas at Austin Satinder Singh Baveja, University of Michigan and DeepMind Stephanie Tellex, Brown University Martha White, University of Alberta Sonia Chernova, Georgia Tech Jeannette Bohg, Stanford University Jakob Foerster, Facebook AI Research Stay tuned for updates as the conference gets closer. Learn More More Information Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BRAINSTORM, CCBS, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Jun 8 11:00am - 12:00pm Child & Adolescent Grand Rounds Finding the EHR Data to Tell Your Clinical Story: Early Experiences with Lifespan Pediatric Behavioral Health Emergency Services Kathleen R. Donise, MD Director, Lifespan Pediatric Behavioral Health Emergency Services Associate Professor, Clinician Educator, Dept. of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Brown University And Elizabeth S. Chen, PhD, FACMI Interim Director of the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics Associate Professor of Medical Science and Health Services, Policy & Practice Brown University Wednesday, June 8, 2022◊ 11:00 am - 12:00 pm Course Link: https://cme-learning.brown.edu/CA-21-22 Objectives: At the conclusion of this presentation, participants should be able to: Summarize the current state of Pediatric Behavioral Health Emergency Services and need for data-driven approaches to improve services; Describe process and methods for identifying, extracting, managing, and analyzing data from electronic health record (EHR) systems; and Discuss the value of transdisciplinary teams and collaborations for conducting EHR-based projects to support clinical practice, quality improvement, research, and public health.More Information Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Physical & Earth Sciences, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Social Sciences Jun 10 8:00am - 4:30pm Symposium: “Emerging Areas of Science” The 2022 Emerging Areas of Science Symposium will be held at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University on June 10, 2022. This year’s event will be held in a hybrid format, allowing both virtual and in-person attendance. For the past 15 years, the NIGMS-funded Innovation Development Awards (IDeA) programs in Rhode Island have joined together to hold a state-wide, day-long symposium that both celebrates successes and fosters collaborations among Rhode Island investigators. The symposium includes programs from Brown University, the University of Rhode Island, Lifespan Hospital System, Care New England Health System, and the VA Providence Health Care System. The theme of the 2022 symposium is “Health Disparities in Clinical and Translational Research”. The symposium aims to educate and engage biomedical investigators in RI regarding the importance of engaging diverse populations in the planning and the execution of clinical and translational research, with the ultimate goals to reduce health disparities in our state and to improve the health of all Rhode Islanders. We are pleased to announce that the keynote speakers of this year’s Symposium are Dr. Clyde Yancy and Dr. Mariana C. Stern. We’re certain that both Drs. Yancy and Stern will provide investigators in attendance with engaging talks that will inspire their research. Additionally, we hope you will enjoy the science talks and additional sessions featuring investigators representing Rhode Island’s IDeA programs. Additional information about these speakers and their presentations can be found on the Symposium website. Please note that the schedule of the day is subject to change. Registration for the Symposium is now open. Please click here to indicate your interest in the virtual portions of the event. Zoom links and additional details will follow. Register Now! More Information Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research Jun 10 8:30am - 3:30pm CRISP Symposium: Suicide Prevention: Connecting Research and Clinical Care in Rhode Island Register now for our upcoming CRISP Symposium: Suicide Prevention: Connecting Research and Clinical Care in Rhode Island to be held on the Brown University campus on Friday, June 10th. Brian Ahmedani, Director of the Center for Health Policy & Health Services Research, Henry Ford Health, and Cheryl King, Professor, Director of the Youth and Young Adult Depression and Suicide Prevention Research Program at the University of Michigan will be joining us as our keynote speakers. The event is free, but will be limited to the first 100 to register. Click on the link to register. Suicide Prevention Symposium Tickets More Information Jun 13 Virtual and In Person 10:00am - 12:00pm CLPS PhD Defense: James Wilmott III All Are Welcome! Speaker: James P. Wilmott III Title: Sensorimotor Learning of Depth Estimation for Perception and Action Advisor: Fulvio Domini Location: Hybrid Friedman Auditorium with zoom option ~ zoom link information to the meeting sent to clps all ~ If you are not a part of the CLPS Department and would like to attend virtually, please contact the department’s graduate student coordinator at least 24 hours ahead of the event.More Information Psychology & Cognitive Sciences Jun 17 1:00pm - 1:50pm BigAI Talk: Correctness and Understandability of Model Interpretability Methods (Yilun Zhou, MIT) To watch virtually: https://brown.zoom.us/j/98393578960 Abstract: Neural networks are typically considered black-boxes, but their deployments in high stakes scenarios require human understanding of their inner workings. Thus, many interpretability methods have been proposed to illustrate their reasoning process. Nonetheless, recent empirical evidence casts doubt on their effectiveness. In this talk, starting from this observed deficiency, I focus on two aspects that might explain it. First, I talk about the correctness of these methods, or whether the generated explanations can faithfully reflect the true model decision making process. Second, I talk about their understandability, or whether users can reliably understand the generated explanations, even if they are correct. On both fronts, I demonstrate how careful evaluations can reveal hidden properties about the interpretability methods and models themselves, which can further guide the efforts to improve them. Yilun Zhou is a fifth-year Ph.D. student at MIT EECS, advised by Prof. Julie Shah. His research broadly aims to help humans better understand machines that make important decisions in the world. Specifically, he develops models, algorithms and evaluations in interpretable machine learning, with particular preference on model agnosticity, and apply them in diverse domains including natural language processing, computer vision and robotics. Ultimately, he envisions a world where humans and machines can effortlessly communicate, coordinate and collaborate with each other. Host: George KonidarisMore Information Jun 27 4:00pm - 5:00pm BrainExPo Seminar Series: “Artisans of Brain Wiring: neuron-microglia selective crosstalk in brain wiring and function” Join the Carney Institute for its Brain Science External Postdoc Seminar Series (BrainExPo), featuring Emilia Favuzzi, Ph.D., a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard Medical School and the Broad Institute. Abstract Microglia, the primary brain macrophages, regulate a plethora of events that impact the organization of neural circuits, including synapse fine-tuning. Neuronal synapses exhibit a striking diversity that reflects a specialized molecular architecture. I have explored whether the interactions between microglia and synapses are similarly specialized. Using inhibitory synapses as a point of comparison, I identified a subset of microglia that is receptive to GABA and selectively remodels inhibitory synapses. Perturbing these specialized microglia causes long-lasting defects in inhibitory connectivity that lead to behavioral abnormalities, without impacting excitatory synapses. These findings demonstrate that specialized microglia differentially engage with specific synapse types and highlight a critical function of the selective communication between neuronal and microglia types in brain wiring. ZOOM More Information Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Sep 6 6:00pm “Drugs Used in Pregnancy and Neonatal Medicine: How Likely are They to Access the Developing Brain?”- Liam Koehn This lecture will be presented by Liam Koehn, a PhD student at the University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. More Information View full calendar > News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Event Inquiries Kristin Webster [email protected] Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top