Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The University of Virginia SIS Collab Email Jobs Info For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Search form Search Close Main Menu Main menu About Us Go to About Us Charlottesville & Beyond Facts & Figures Visit Academics Go to Academics Schools Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies International Studies Continuing & Executive Education Academic Calendar J-Term & Summer Session Undergraduate Majors Online Learning Admission Undergraduate Admission Apply Tuition & Affordability Undergraduate Majors & Programs Clubs & Activities Sports & Recreation Student-Self Governance Housing & Residence Life What’s Next for UVA’s Class of 2022? Arts Athletics Health System Libraries Research You are here Home Admission Housing & Residence Life X Residence Life Housing Options Resident Resources Wahoo Welcome President Helps First-Years Move In If you come to UVA, you’re likely looking for more than just the traditional college experience. You’re looking to take on big challenges, contribute and find a home. And that’s exactly what you’ll find. The environment here was designed to bring you and faculty together to challenge and inspire each other. Today you can live in a variety of settings, all designed to support self-governance, personal development and intellectual growth. UVA Housing and Residence The University fosters open, welcoming and inclusive housing communities, designed to fit every students’ individual needs. Finding the Right Fit In your first year, you begin your UVA experience in on-Grounds housing, much of which has just been renovated, expanded or built. Centrally located, student residential communities are in close proximity to state-of-the-art fitness centers, contemporary dining facilities and virtually all academic classrooms. You can also live in one of UVA's residential colleges, close-knit communities that foster social and intellectual interaction between faculty and students of all years. These include Brown College, Hereford College and the International Residential College (IRC). University of Virginia Instagram Twitter Facebook YouTube Footer Utilities Non-Discrimination Notice UVA Tuition Notice Wise Tuition Notice Consumer Information Accessibility Emergency SIS FOIA Privacy © 2022 By The Rector And Visitors Of The University Of Virginia