Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW Campus Recreation Current Announcements Half Acre will be closed on Monday, May 30th in observance of Memorial Day. We will resume our regular summer hours on Tuesday, May 31st. Please see our Hours and Information page for more detailed information. The MAC Gym, Racquetball Courts, and Group Exercise Studio will be closed Thursday, May 19th - Monday, May 30th for a wood floor refinishing project. These areas will reopen on Tuesday, May 31st. Please note that products being used may emit an odor and dust may appear throughout the facility. Effective Monday, February 21st masks are no longer required in Half Acre Gym. Because it is a medically related unit, masks are required in the Athletic Training Room. We fully support those who choose to continue wearing masks while in Half Acre. Please see our Current Operations page for more information on current policies and protocols at Half Acre Gym. Quick Links Membership and Purchases Member Portal Outdoor Program Registration Fitness Class Reservations fitDEGREE App Wellness Center Programs Massage Chair Reservations UW Students Only Campus Recreation Programs Aquatics Club Sports Fitness Intramural Sports Outdoor Program Wellness Center More Info Facility Hours and Information Recreation Facilities Facility Reservations Membership Information Student Employment Campus Recreation Staff Contact Us Campus Recreation Half Acre Recreation and Wellness Center Department 3604 1000 E University Ave Laramie, WY 82071 (307) 766-5586 rec@uwyo.edu Accidents and injuries can and do occur during sport, recreation, and exercise activities. Additionally, participating in sports and recreational activities increases the likelihood of contracting COVID-19 as well as other contagions. Notice is hereby given that the University of Wyoming is not responsible for accidents, injuries, and/or illnesses that may be incurred while on and/or during the use of university property; nor is the university responsible for any costs or expenses incurred as a result of any accident, injury, and/or illness that may occur on university property. Additionally, the University of Wyoming is not responsible for any items lost/stolen in conjunction with the use of university facilities. Participants understand and agree that their use of university facilities and/or services is at their own risk. 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility