Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Political Science Undergraduate Graduate BA/MA JD/MA Advising Internships People News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Alumni Resources Support Opportunities How to Support Department Newsletter Fall 2018Fall 2017Fall 2016Fall 2015Fall 2014Fall 2013 News & Events Take Action Alumni and Friends Make a Gift to Political Science Registered Student Organizations / Clubs Contact Follow Us Online Facebook Home Political Science Alumni Support Opportunities in the Department of Political Science Private gifts are increasingly important to maintain a quality program in Political Science. Support from alumni, family and friends will make a difference in academic opportunities we can offer to our students and faculty. Our funding needs include the following: Political Science Enrichment Fund We will use these funds to provide additional opportunities for our students, such as research travel funds and additional undergraduate and graduate scholarship support. These funds will also help us attract and retain high-caliber faculty members through such things as supplementing research travel or the purchase of specialized data sets or computer software. Gary Carman Memorial Fund The Gary Carman Merit Award was established to honor the memory of Gary Carman. Gary placed great importance upon serving the department and the university, and was widely known for his friendliness and his willingness to help wherever and whenever needed. He viewed students, faculty and staff as part of his extended family. In 2007, he passed away after an intense struggle with cancer and the department decided to pay tribute to him by creating an award that recognizes a student, who demonstrates a strong commitment to excellence in service to the Department of Political Science and The University of Memphis. The long-term goal of the department is to endow this fund. Lisa Huffstetler Memorial Scholarship The University of Memphis has created the Lisa Huffstetler Memorial Scholarship in Political Science, thanks to a generous gift from Shannon Hayes, BA'09. Lisa Huffstetler had served as an instructor in the Department of Political Science for more than 10 years when she suddenly passed away in 2014. She touched the lives of her students, colleagues and friends in many different ways. Among Lisa Huffstetler's most important activities were the development of online classes, her service as coordinator for the Legislative Internship Program, and her leadership in developing a study abroad program that took students to London and Berlin. Her work, which combined classroom teaching and personal development, prepared her students for future careers in public service, law, business, the nonprofit sector and other professional fields. Shannon Hayes was one of the students deeply touched by Lisa Huffstetler's teaching and mentorship. Her generous gift in the form of a scholarship in Lisa Huffstetler's memory is a testament to what a wonderful mentor she was to her students and how valuable she was to the Department of Political Science and the University. Criteria for the scholarship are: Full-time undergraduate students majoring in Political Science classified as rising sophomores, juniors or seniors A personal statement from the student, sharing their accomplishments, hardships, interest in the field of Political Science or other relevant information A preference for students who were emancipated minors or adopted in their teen years A preference for need 2.5 minimum GPA, but students who have less than a 3.0 GPA should describe, in their personal statement, the circumstances which may have affected their GPA Support the Department of Political Science Now! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/12/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.