Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services International Services The University of Cincinnati is committed to inclusive excellence. Our blueprint for the future, Next Lives Here, is based on three pillars: inclusion, real-world impact and innovation. These are the foundation for the education you will receive at UC. The same values have always been the cornerstone for UC International. Our office exists to support UC’s global students, scholars and staff. We advocate for you and work every day to meet your needs, from immigration advising to social interaction. We want to make sure that this message is clear from the moment you step foot on campus: You are welcome here. Get your I-20 endorsed for travel If you want to travel outside the US, you need a travel signature from UC International Services on your Form I-20. Complete and submit a Request for a Travel Signature eForm on iBearcatsGlobal at least 5 days prior to the anticipated travel date. We encourage you to submit the form even earlier. Learn more about maintaining your visa status. Find yourself here. Discover what's Next. Studying at the University of Cincinnati will change your life—and you can change the world. Experience is part of your education, in any program you choose. UC strongly believes that a world-class education has the power of real-world impact. The University of Cincinnati is a Carnegie I public research institution with 213 graduate programs and 194 undergraduate programs. Reuters recently listed us among the top 100 most innovative global universities. We invented co-op in 1906, and our students earn $75 million annually working for 1,300 international employers. Whether you want to perfect an art, pursue expertise in a scholarly or professional field, perform research or dedicate yourself to a future of service, find your path here at UC. Apply to UC Hear from our international students Contact us Arriving on campus? If you are a new international student arriving on UC's campus for the first time, make sure you know how to check-in with UC International and find campus resources. Global strategy and scholarship UC International supports the University of Cincinnati's global educational mission. We help departments recruit and hire faculty, staff and researchers of international caliber. We invest in innovative collaborations with scholars and researchers around the world. We build a comprehensive worldwide network of strategic partner universities to create a common future. Hire an International Employee Work at UC Contact our office Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. UC exchange student shoots for the stars May 16, 2022 Paula Vulić, a master’s student in astrophysics from the University of Zagreb in Croatia set her sights high during an internship exchange semester this spring at the University of Cincinnati. CCM launches International Opera Language and Culture Immersion... May 9, 2022 The University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music (CCM) is at the center of a new groundbreaking international program that sends the college’s graduate-level opera students abroad to study language and culture in Italy, Germany or France. CCM Opera’s Language and Culture Immersion Program gives student singers, coaches/accompanists and directors the opportunity to embed themselves abroad to live, work and study with the industry’s leading conductors, directors and opera houses. Load More Debug Query for this UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top