Online Music Reserves Sonic Glossary Major Minor Music Mini Course The following resources have been developed for Music Humanities students by Music Department faculty, Music & Arts Library staff, and the Columbia Center for New Media Teaching and Learning. Sonic Glossary The Sonic Glossary is an innovative teaching tool for music appreciation. It assumes no musical training on the part of the user. It defines musical terms by combining visual text, spoken voice, pictures, graphic images, and musical sound in creative ways, delivering them in high-quality audio for private study. Major Minor Music Mini Course Revised and updated for the fall 2012, this mini course is designed to help students learn to hear the difference between major and minor. Building through a number of intermediary stages, the goal will be to learn to distinguish between pieces written in major and minor keys. The focus will not be on acquiring concepts but on developing listening skills. New version is mobile ready. An iBook version is also available from the Apple iBookstore: Major Minor Music Music iBook (v3.0b, 21MB) for iPads. Online Music Reserves The Online Music Reserves contain a wide range of works selected to support the Music Humanities curriculum. Titles have been selected by the Music Humanities faculty from the Music & Arts Library holdings and are available for classroom listening and student study. The system provides a filtering search feature to aid in the location of works or tracks. Access requires a Columbia UNI and a broadband network connection. A directory of librettos is available through the Online Music Reserves (Columbia UNI required). The Gabe M. Wiener Music and Arts Library Located on the seventh floor of Dodge Hall, the Music & Arts Library's onsite collection totals over 60,000 printed items, including monographs and serials on western and non-western music, as well as music scores; 20,000 sound and video recordings in multiple formats; CD-ROM indexes and multi-media titles; and several hundred microforms of scholarly interest. The Columbia University Libraries subscribe to a number of sound recording databases, including Classical Music Online, the Database of Recorded American Music, Naxos Music Library, and Smithsonian Global Sound. Students may also use the Philip L. Milstein Family College Library on the second floor of Butler for computer access and study space. Computer labs and clusters are also available for online listening. Concert Listings & Venues and Concert Report Resources The Concert Listings & Venues offers a listing of New York City concert opportunities for Music Humanities students. The Concert Report Resources from the Music & Arts Library offers a guide to the writing of concert reports that includes books, reference works, and library services. Music Humanities Opera Project The Music Humanities Opera Project contains multimedia guides to Mozart's Don Giovanni, Puccini's La Bohème and Madama Butterfly, and Bizet's Carmen. A directory of librettos is available through the Online Music Reserves (Columbia UNI required). Pierrot Lunaire Pierrot Lunaire is a comprehensive multimedia study environment on Arnold Schoenberg's expressionist masterpiece. Copyright ©2008 Columbia University