Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Campus & City Campus Life Arts & Culture Arts & Culture Theater, music, dance, film, painting, sculpture … DC is an exciting city for arts and culture, and Georgetown partners with some of the city’s best cultural organizations to produce groundbreaking work. Not only do you have DC’s world-class arts institutions right on your doorstep, you’ll find endless opportunities to immerse yourself in the university’s lively campus arts scene, too. “Music can immediately create a sense of belonging and connection amongst the audience. Aren’t those the core values of nursing?” Clarisza’s Story “Communities fighting for racial justice use the arts to humanize their experiences and tell stories of their struggle and resilience, which is important because it activates, creating empathy for those with differing life experiences.” Professor Anita Gonzalez’s Story “I had fantastic mentors at Georgetown who always supported and encouraged me even after I left the Hilltop…The love and support of my Georgetown community have made it feel possible to pursue this career.” Miranda’s Story Previous Story Next Story 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Campus & City Culture Our location in Washington, D.C., allows for partnerships with some of the best theaters and musical groups in the country, as well as unparalleled resources and partnerships with internationally recognized museums, galleries and musical and dance groups. Connect With DC Culture Embrace Creativity More News Georgetown Embraces Healing Power of Artistic Expression to Transcend Pandemic Two Georgetown Professors Receive Prestigious Whiting Award for Fiction, Nonfiction Tope Folarin and Sarah Stewart Johnson were recognized as emerging writers with the Whiting Award, which is given each year to 10 diverse authors who show promise in their fields. Renowned Choreographer Joins Georgetown as New Artist-in-Residence in Disability Studies Meet Jerron Herman, a dancer, playwright and advocate in the disability space. He’s also the new artist/scholar/activist-in residence in the Program in Disability Studies. 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide De La Cruz Gallery The on-campus gallery hosts world-class art exhibitions and programs to members of the campus community, the Georgetown neighborhood and the Washington, DC region. Visit the Gallery Play Youtube Video Center Stage Find your creative outlet on campus with one of our many performance groups. Get Involved Explore More Film and Media Art and Art History Theater and Performing Arts Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog