Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master’s Program Communication Sciences and Disorders Become a Speech-Language Pathologist (SLP) with the Help of UCF Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Health Professions and Sciences Department(s) Comm Sci & Disorders, Schl of 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Gain the knowledge and training to become an SLP Through this clinical master’s degree program, students are prepared to become speech-language pathologists (SLPs) for work in early intervention, schools, hospitals, rehabilitation centers, skilled nursing facilities, community clinics and private practices. SLPs work with children, adolescents and adults who experience a variety of communication and associated disorders. In this program, you will gain knowledge and skills which are applied directly through hands-on experiences working alongside clinical faculty in the UCF Communication Disorders Clinic. Students learn from SLPs in the community through our robust internship program that includes more than 200 practicum/internship sites throughout the greater Orlando area and the state of Florida. Following completion of the master’s degree, some graduates continue on to pursue doctorate degrees. The Communication Sciences and Disorders (CSD) master’s program consists of a minimum of 72 credit hours, including 38 credit hours of core academic courses, 9 credit hours of electives, and 25 credit hours of clinical practice. Thesis students take 6 credit hours of thesis and one elective course (3 credit hours). Most students complete the program in two years. Program Tracks Traditional Track The Traditional track is a two-year, full-time face-to-face program (six consecutive semesters, including two summers) for students with undergraduate degrees in communication sciences and disorders or speech-language pathology and audiology. For students with undergraduate degrees in other majors (out-of-field), the program requires additional prerequisite coursework. Students must begin the program in the semester for which they are admitted and must enroll full-time each semester. Consortium Track The Consortium track is a cooperative effort between the UCF School of Communication Sciences and Disorders and the Central Florida Public School Consortium to address the critical shortage of public school speech-language pathologists in the area. Participating school districts in the Central Florida Consortium are Brevard, Citrus, Flagler, Lake, Marion, Orange, Osceola, Seminole, Sumter and Volusia. Students must be employed in a school setting and will complete a modified course sequence across eight consecutive semesters. Accelerated Track The Accelerated track enables highly qualified current UCF undergraduate majors in communication sciences and disorders to achieve a master’s degree in the UCF School of Communication Sciences and Disorders graduate program one semester faster than in the Traditional track. This program is a BA/BS to MA program. Students are able to enroll in graduate-level courses while completing the bachelor’s degree. Foundations Track Students who did not major in communication sciences and disorders or a related field (“out of field”) may still apply to the program but must complete the undergraduate prerequisite courses upon admission. These courses are meant to be taken upon admission to the graduate program at UCF, not before admission. These courses are specific to UCF, and other graduate programs will have different course requirements. Students must enroll in the program prior to taking the classes to ensure class credit will be applied to their degree. Request Information Highlights Ranked #55 by U.S. News and World Report for graduate CSD programs The SLP profession is projected to grow 25% over the next 10-years, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The median annual wage for speech-language pathologists was $80,480 in May 2020, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Application Deadlines Fall Priority January 15 Fall February 1 Spring October 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Articulation/Phonological Disorders Build a foundation of clinical terminology related to articulation and phonological disorders and the characteristics of these different conditions and the different assessments used in diagnosis. Voice Disorders Explore both the normal and abnormal anatomical and physiological processes of voice production to integrate as part of a medical team to make accurate diagnoses and create the proper treatment approach. Fluency Disorders Analyze different neurogenic communication disorders, including aphasia and acquired cognitive-communication disorders associated with traumatic brain injury, right hemisphere damage, dementia and other neurogenic conditions. Aphasia and Related Disorders Analyze different neurogenic communication disorders, including aphasia and acquired cognitive-communication disorders associated with traumatic brain injury, right hemisphere damage, dementia and other neurogenic conditions. Intervention of Language Disorders in Children and Adolescents Learn about current evidence-based practices related to interventions that meet the personal, social, academic and vocational needs of children and adolescents with developmental language disorders across clinical settings. Feeding and Swallowing Disorders Examine the evaluation and management of feeding and swallowing disorders in children and adults to differentiate normal aspects of swallowing, the impact of various diseases and disorders on swallowing function, and clinical management of patients with dysphagia including assessment, treatment and ethical aspects of care. View All Communication Sciences and Disorders Courses That You'll Take I am so appreciative for the mentorship that I received from the faculty in the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders as I went through the master’s program. Their motivation and support continue to inspire me as I teach and supervise my own students today. I am forever grateful to UCF." — Rachel M. Williams '96MA, PhD, CCC-SLP, ASHA Fellow Communication Sciences and Disorders Skills You'll Learn Learn to evaluate and diagnose speech, language, communication and swallowing disorders. Develop skills to help you treat speech, language, communication and swallowing disorders. Gain experience in developing research questions and interpreting research to build knowledge and to foster critical thinking skills. Work collaboratively with other professionals, caregivers and community members. SLP Career Settings Early Intervention Schools Rehab hospitals Children’s hospitals VA or military hospital Private practice/ outpatient care Assisted living facilities Acute care Voice care for performers Admission Requirements The UCF master’s in Communication Sciences and Disorders program admits twice per year, in the Fall and Spring semesters. We are one of the few programs in Florida to offer a Spring admission (applications due Oct. 1). Students applying to the Fall semester are encouraged to apply early (by January). We utilize the central application system of CSDCAS. Request Information To apply to the Master’s in Communication Sciences and Disorders program, you must: Start your application using the Council of Academic Programs in Communication Science and Disorders (CSDCAS) form Complete theUCF Graduate Application Request Information College of Health Professions and Sciences News Check out more stories Health & Medicine Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCF The program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. Colleges & Campus UCF Opens New Huntington’s Disease Multispecialty Clinic Located in Research Park, the new clinic offers multidisciplinary care from the College of Medicine, School of Social Work, and College of Health Professions and… Community UCF Class Spotlight: Introduction to American Sign Language In honor of National American Sign Language Day, April 15, here’s a look at a course — plus an instructional video — that teaches students… Health & Medicine UCF Students Team up to Provide Care at Apopka Farmworkers Clinic For the first time since the pandemic, the clinic has returned to in-person services at full capacity. CSD Alumnus Continues Advancing Diversity and Inclusion Efforts Bernard Rousseau ’98 ’00MA is working to advance the SLP profession beyond his students and school. Through his active involvement in community efforts, he's able to give back and make a difference. Learn how he advocates for inclusivity Degree Search College of Health Professions and Sciences programs Masters Communication Sciences and Disorders (MA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Communication Sciences and Disorders (MA) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The School of Communication Sciences and Disorders offers three plans of study leading to the Master of Arts degree: the Traditional, Consortium and Accelerated programs. Each track is intended for those interested in working with children and adults who have communication disorders and is based on the same curriculum and degree requirements but allows students to follow different plans of study. Students enrolled in each track must follow a prescribed sequence of academic and clinical courses. Each track provides academic and clinical education experiences necessary for certification by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) and the Florida Department of Education, and licensure by the state of Florida. For information on how this program may prepare students for professional licensure, please visit https://healthprofessions.ucf.edu/csd/masters/. The Council on Academic Accreditation (CAA) of the ASHA has accredited the Master of Arts Degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders since 1986. The Communication Sciences and Disorders program strives to educate students to become successful practitioners in the field of speech-language pathology. To that end, the ASHA Code of Ethics is re-enforced throughout the academic curriculum. Students who violate the ASHA Code of Ethics may be subject to academic sanctions or dismissed from the program. The Traditional track is a two-year, full-time face-to-face program (six consecutive semesters, including two summers) for students with undergraduate degrees in communication sciences and disorders or speech-language pathology and audiology. For students with undergraduate degrees in other majors (out-of-field), the program requires additional prerequisite coursework. Students must begin the program in the semester for which they are admitted and must enroll full-time each semester. The Accelerated track enables highly qualified current UCF undergraduate majors in communication sciences and disorders to achieve a master's degree in the UCF School of Communication Sciences and Disorders graduate program in one less semester than students in the Traditional track. This program is a BA/BS to MA program. Students are able to enroll in graduate-level courses while completing the bachelor's degree. This program has potential ties to state-regulated professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CHPS-Communication-Sciences-Disorders-MA.pdf. Program Prerequisites Applicants need to be certified to practice by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA), all students must have undergraduate transcript credit, which could include course work, advanced placement, CLEP, or examination equivalency, for each of the following areas: biological sciences, physical sciences, social/behavioral sciences, and statistics. Courses may consist of any number of credits and must be taken outside the discipline. All students must complete at least 3 credit hours in statistics with a grade of "C" or better. Undergraduate or graduate course work in statistics is a prerequisite to SPA 6805 - Research in Communicative Disorders. The program admits qualified in-field applicants, with an undergraduate degree in communication sciences and disorders or speech-language pathology and audiology, and out-of-field applicants, with undergraduate degrees in other majors. Out-of-field students require an additional 21 to 27 credit hours of prerequisite course work that may be completed in approximately two semesters once admitted. Out-of-field students must complete the following undergraduate prerequisite courses or their equivalents once admitted: STA 2014 - Principles of Statistics 3 Credit Hours or STA 2023 - Statistical Methods I 3 credit hours LIN 3716/3716L - Language Development and Lab 5 Credit Hours SPA 3101 - Physiological Bases of Speech and Hearing 3 Credit Hours SPA 3104 - Neural Bases of Communication 3 Credit Hours SPA 3112C - Basic Phonetics and Lab 4 Credit Hours SPA 3011 - Speech Science 3 Credit Hours SPA 4032 - Audiology 3 Credit Hours Degree Requirements Required Courses 38 Total Credits Complete the following: SPA6204 - Articulation/Phonological Dis (3) SPA6211C - Voice Disorders (4) SPA6225C - Fluency Disorders (4) SPA6236 - Motor Speech Disorders in Adults and Children (3) SPA6327 - Aural Habilitation Rehab (3) SPA6410 - Aphasia and Related Disorders (3) SPA6474 - Assessment and Management of Culturally and Linguistically Diverse Populations (3) SPA6541 - Assessment of Language Disorders in Children and Adolescents (3) SPA6542 - Intervention of Language Disorders in Children and Adolescents (3) SPA6559 - Augmentative and Alternative Communication (3) SPA6565 - Feeding and Swallowing Disorders (3) SPA6805 - Research in Communicative Disorders (3) Clinical Practice 25 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: SPA6551 - Foundations of Clinical Practice: Level I (1) SPA6503 - Foundations of Clinical Practice Level II (1) SPA6503L - Found Clinic Practice-II APP (1) SPA6553L - Clinical Practice in Differential Diagnosis in Speech and Language Pathology (1) SPA6563L - Clinical Practice and Instrumental Diagnostics in Individuals with Dysphagia (1) SPA6942 - Foundations of Clinical Practice: Level III (1) SPA6942L - Found Clinic Practice-III APP (1) SPA6943C - Clinical Practice Level I (3) Earn at least 2 credits from the following types of courses: Students are required to take both SPA 6503L and SPA 6942L twice. Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: SPA 6946 - Clinical Practice: Level II Earn at least 10 credits from the following types of courses: SPA 6946 - Clinical Practice: Level III Supervised clinical practice is an integral part of the graduate program in Communication Sciences and Disorders. It provides students with an opportunity to apply classroom knowledge to the evaluation and management of individuals with a wide variety of communication disorders. Students complete three clinical practica at the UCF Communication Disorders Clinic and other affiliated facilities, as well as external rotations in schools, hospitals, rehabilitation centers, skilled nursing facilities, long-term care facilities, community clinics, and private practices. Through these practica and external rotations, students obtain a minimum of 400 clock hours of supervised clinical experience in accordance with the guidelines outlined by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). Clinical practica and external rotations vary in length and do not always coincide with the academic calendar. Thesis/Nonthesis Option 9 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Thesis Option Complete all of the following Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: SPA 6971 - Thesis Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: Elective course selected in consultation with Faculty advisor. Thesis hours cannot be counted toward graduation requirements if students fail to complete or successfully defend their thesis. For additional information, thesis students and their advisory committees should refer to the thesis requirements in the UCF Graduate Catalog. Nonthesis Option Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: Elective courses selected in consultation with Faculty advisor. Comprehensive Examination 0 Total Credits Passing a School Comprehensive Examination is a requirement for completion of the master's degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders. Grand Total Credits: 72 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. The Master of Arts in Communication Sciences and Disorders program at UCF participates in the Communication Sciences and Disorders Centralized Application Service, known as CSDCAS. Prospective students applying to the Communication Sciences and Disorders MA program at UCF must apply online using the CSDCAS application in addition to the UCF online application. To learn more about the CSDCAS application process, visit http://www.capcsd.org/csdcas-student-page/ Step 1: Complete the CSDCAS application for the UCF program Complete CSDCAS Application (https://csdcas.liaisoncas.com/applicant-ux/#/login) One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. Transcripts must be sent directly to CSDCAS. Official, competitive GRE score (verbal, quantitative, and written) obtained within the last five years. Use GRE CODE for UCF CSDCAS: 7407. (Do not use the "Institution Code" for GRE listed to the right). Three (3) letters of recommendation with CSDCAS recommendation forms, preferably two from current or former faculty members. Letters of recommendation cannot be dated more than one year prior to the date of the application deadline. A letter of intent describing educational background, professional experiences, future goals, interest in the field, why you want to attend UCF, other related information about your qualifications, and how you will embody and uphold the ASHA Code of Ethics (http://www.asha.org/code-of-ethics/) in your professional career. A current resume. All CSDCAS supplemental questions. Question can be found on CSDCAS application. UCF Graduate Application (supplemental) must be submitted by the deadline in addition to CSDCAS application. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. All international students must meet university minimum TOEFL score requirements regardless of language in which the undergraduate program was completed. Incomplete applications will NOT be reviewed. All application materials MUST be sent directly to CSDCAS. Materials sent to the university or program and not to CSDCAS will not be accepted. Application materials must be received by CSDCAS no later than October 1st for Spring admission and February 1st for Fall admission. Students are responsible for their CSDCAS application being complete and verified. FAQ's on starting your CSDCAS application can be found here: https://help.liaisonedu.com/CSDCAS_Applicant_Help_Center/Starting_Your_CSDCAS_Application In addition to your CSDCAS application, applicants must also submit a UCF application for graduate admission at https://application.graduate.ucf.edu/. Supporting documents (i.e. transcripts, test scores, etc.) do not need to be submitted to UCF directly. University applications must also be submitted by the stated application deadlines. Admission to the Communication Sciences and Disorders program is granted on a competitive basis. Approximately thirty-five to forty-five (35-45) students are admitted each semester. Meeting the minimum admission requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. The recent class statistics are listed on the Graduate Program Profile webpage. Additionally, the program reserves the right to deny admission or dismiss a student after admission to the program if, in the judgment of the faculty, the student fails to demonstrate and/or uphold the ASHA Code of Ethics (http://www.asha.org/code-of-ethics/) during coursework and/or practice in the field. Application Deadlines Communication Sciences and Disorders MA *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Feb 1 Oct 1 International Applicants Dec 1 Dec 1 Sep 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida