Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Home How to Give Types of Gifts Cash Gifts Cash – and cash equivalents such as checks and credit cards – immediately benefit Iowa State, and is often the most convenient and easiest form of giving. Simply follow these instructions to make a gift today! Make a gift online Send a check Print out this gift form and mail it with your check to: Iowa State University Foundation 2505 University Blvd P.O. Box 2230 Ames, IA 50010-2230 Set up an electronic funds transfer Print this gift form and mail it to the same address. Non-Cash Gifts Pledges Instead of paying the sum of your gift all at once, pledges allow you to pay the total over time. Terms for pledges are typically within five years. Employees of Iowa State University can make a pledge gift by completing a payroll deduction form. Make a pledge today! Print out this pledge form and send it to us. In the mail: Iowa State University Foundation 2505 University Boulevard P.O. Box 2230 Ames, Iowa 50010-2230 By email: Michele Overturf moverturf@foundation.iastate.edu By fax: 515.294.4648 Stocks, Bonds or Mutual Funds Gifts of stocks, bonds or mutual funds may be donated as outright gifts or as a pledge payment. When you make a gift of securities, your income tax deduction is equal to the fair market value of the securities, and you may avoid capital gains taxes on the transfer. Stock If your stock is held by a bank or broker, please notify the Iowa State University Foundation in advance by contacting Michele Overturf at moverturf@foundation.iastate.edu. Without this information, the stock could be transferred to us without any way of knowing you made the gift, making it difficult to give you the proper tax credit and recognition you deserve. If you hold the physical stock certificates yourself, mail them and a completed stock power form in separate envelopes (by certified mail) on the same day to: Iowa State University Foundation 2505 University Blvd. PO Box 2230 Ames, IA 50010-2230 Mutual funds Plan ahead when making a gift using shares of mutual funds. Since the mutual fund transfer process varies by company, please contact Michele Overturf at moverturf@foundation.iastate.edu to obtain the applicable transfer instructions. The transfer process takes longer than a stock transfer, so please allow four to six weeks for the transaction to be completed. If you are planning on making a year-end gift, please start the process in early November. Gifts of Grain For farm operators, gifting grain directly, rather than selling the grain and making a gift from the proceeds, may provide a more significant tax savings. To learn more about gifts of grain, click here. Make a gift of grain today! Gifts-In-Kind Gifts-in-kind are items of property such as art, books, computer equipment, patents or livestock. When donated for related educational purposes, they are recognized at their fair market value. An independent appraisal may be required for gifts-in-kind valued at more than $5,000. As these gifts can be complex and require special consideration, please contact Shawnna Murphy at slmurphy@foundation.iastate.edu. Real Estate Real estate can be donated as a current gift or a gift through your estate. It also may be given to finance a life income gift such as a charitable remainder trust. All gifts of real estate – such as a residence, farm, undeveloped land, vacation home or commercial property – should be discussed with our office of gift planning. Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are Careers Iowa State Highlights Why I Give Jeff and Mary Gibbons - Making a Big Impact Through a Bequest to Iowa State University Read More Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top