Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Chemistry MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Chemistry MS Apply Request More Info Chemistry MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Chemistry Prepare for a career in research or advanced graduate studies with the Master of Science in Chemistry in the College of Science and Technology at Temple. This master's degree is interdisciplinary and flexible, designed to develop your expertise in one of five chemical disciplines. With the option to take classes full or part time, you can earn your degree while still working professionally. You can pursue either a thesis track or program coursework, and both tracks emphasize significant investigation into the chemical sciences. Work toward the Chemistry PhD, or prepare to lead research in biotechnology, environmental science, forensic science, healthcare and more. You’ll study and perform original and collaborative research in one of the following specific areas of specialization. analytical chemistry biochemistry inorganic chemistry organic chemistry physical chemistry Though some classes vary between the coursework and thesis tracks, all help you form a deeper understanding of specific areas of study, including environmental chemistry, materials and polymers, medicinal chemistry, nanoscience, photonics and surface science. Some of the courses in this degree program focus on the key chemical and physical properties of nanomaterials; the principles and applications of important physical and spectroscopic methods; organic structure and organic reaction mechanisms; and quantum mechanics and its application to chemical systems. Faculty members are involved in cutting-edge research into areas such as novel biological mechanisms; methods to study macromolecules; and ultra-intense laser fields. Research is performed in Temple’s state-of-the-art centers and facilities, including the Center for Advanced Photonics Research, which investigates the photochemistry and photophysics of molecules and how they interact with laser pulses; the Institute for Computational Molecular Science, where research is focused on high-performance computing hardware, applications and training across Temple; and the Temple Materials Institute, where faculty pursue research in the design, synthesis, characterization and modeling of advanced materials. Learn more about Chemistry research and facilities. Coursework versus Thesis Deciding between the coursework track and the thesis track depends on your professional goals. For students who want substantial lab experience, the thesis track involves more time performing research. The track culminates in a final, original research thesis paper approved by your Graduate Advisory Committee. The coursework track is ideal for students who already have significant experience in research laboratories and who currently work in a chemical industry or related profession. This track includes a final examination, which must be passed before a student can successfully complete the degree. Final examinations depend on a student’s chosen area of specialization and focus on the core chemistry concepts of each specialization. Both tracks require prior approval from the Department of Chemistry. Classes & Curriculum Chemistry MS students have three years to earn a degree. Your curriculum depends on which track you choose. The thesis track is specifically designed for part-time students who seek advanced research experience in labs. It is completed over 30 credit hours within two years and is available on a part-time basis. It includes six formal lecture courses, a graduate research course and thesis research. The culminating events for the thesis track are the final thesis research paper and its defense. The coursework track comprises 10 formal lecture courses and culminates in a final examination. Learn more about required courses for the Chemistry MS thesis and coursework tracks. Though classes are tailored to your specific area of specialization, some of them include Advanced Inorganic Chemistry, Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Data Analysis and Evidence, and Nanomaterials Chemistry and Physics. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PSM Bioinnovation PSM Chemistry PhD Forensic Chemistry PSM Scientific Writing PSM Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and research opportunities. Daniel Strongin, professor in the Department of Chemistry, is the faculty advisor for the Chemistry MS. Phone: 215-204-7155 Email: daniel.strongin@temple.edu Program Contact For questions regarding the Chemistry MS program, please contact chemgrad@temple.edu. Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Temple Organizations Chemistry after Dark is a monthly evening discussion group featuring research presentations by graduate students. Students learn to break down their ideas in clear, understandable ways for a wide and varied audience. Temple University Chemical Society is a student organization devoted to service, outreach and chemistry. Members meet with faculty in the "lunch and lab" program, volunteer at outreach events with local schools, and organize fundraisers to support scientific research. Temple University Forensics Association helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. Local Organizations Philadelphia Organic Chemists’ Club Philadelphia Inorganic Colloquium Science History Institute Philadelphia Science Festival Philadelphia Local American Chemical Society chapter Extracurricular Activities Join one of the department's intramural teams to get to know colleagues outside of the lab and enjoy the outdoors. Many labs have intramural teams that compete against each other in annual tournaments such as the department summer volleyball league. Learn more about student clubs and organizations in the Department of Chemistry. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-CHEM-MS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Chemistry MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info