Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Office of Research Development TigerSphere TigerSphere Sphere: “an area of activity, interest, or expertise … a section of society or an aspect of life distinguished and unified by a particular characteristic,” per Oxford University Press. Also, “to form into a rounded or perfect whole.” TigerSphere attempts to form that perfect whole of university research – a congregation of diverse ideas and expertise that can develop well-rounded research solutions to society’s grand challenges. How it works: TigerSphere is a gathering of researchers from different disciplines who share thoughts, build relationships, and form convergent research collaborations around a central theme. Each TigerSphere session will include 4-5 speed talks, followed by breakout sessions to discuss ideas and a social hour to continue the conversation. Refreshments will be provided. Participants will have the opportunity to build relationships and continue collaborations moving forward. Event Photos Have a great idea? Form a Sphere. The Office of Research Development is looking for research topics for upcoming TigerSphere sessions. Each session includes four or five short presentations – no more than five slides – related to a central theme. Each TigerSphere should have faculty participants from at least two colleges and will need a small organizing committee to coordinate presentations and identify participants to invite. Please complete the form linked below to submit an idea for TigerSphere. Submit your Idea TigerSphere 2022 Environmental Justice The Associate Vice President for Research Development Shelia Cotten and the TigerSphere Environmental Justice planning committee would like to invite you to attend a networking session, designed to bring together researchers across the University to increase interdisciplinary collaborations. Organizing Committee: Mik Carbajales-Dale, CECAS Marzieh Motallebi, CAFLS Lori Dickes, CBSHS Catherine Mobley, CBSHS Chris Post, CAFLS Environmental Justice has been chosen as the theme. The Environmental Protection Agency defines environmental justice (EJ) as “the fair treatment and meaningful involvement of all people regardless of race, color, national origin, or income with respect to the development, implementation and enforcement of environmental laws, regulations and policies. EJ provides many disciplinary intersection points for faculty and students, whether it is through improving access to healthy food, air, water, and other natural resources; addressing imbalance in quality of public infrastructure, transportation, and housing conditions; or remedying unequal impacts from pollution and natural disasters among other topical areas. In recent years, government, non-profit, and private organizations have directed increased funding toward addressing EJ challenges. This session brings together researchers from disciplines related to the natural environment, built environment, and social and behavioral systems to spark discussions and research collaborations related to how individuals, organizations, communities, and societies can become more equitable. Please join us to learn more about the EJ work occurring at Clemson and opportunities to collaborate with our colleagues in these important areas. The TigerSphere session will be held on the Clemson main campus on: May 4th, 12:30-3:00 PM Watt Family Innovation Center, Room 106 Please use the registration link to ensure your spot A box lunch will be served. Highlights include: 5 short talks, breakout sessions around Environmental Justice theme areas, and networking time. We look forward to seeing you at the TigerSphere Environmental Justice session on May 4th! Presenters Catherine Mobley Professor of Sociology, College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Patricia Carbajales-Dale Director, Geospatial Technology, Cyberinfrastructure Technology Integration David Ladner Associate Professor, Department of Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences Carl Ureta Post-Doctoral Researcher, Forestry and Environmental Conservation Department Aby Sene-Harper Assistant Professor, Parks, Recreation & Tourism Management Vaiva Kalesnikaite Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science Ken Robinson Associate Professor, Department of Sociology, Anthropology, and Criminal Justice Linking Clemson’s Interdisciplinary Resilience Researchers 14th March, 12:00 - 1:00 p.m. 11th April, 12:00 - 1:00 p.m. 9th May, 12:00 - 1:00 p.m. - CANCELLED TigerSphere 2021 (Formerly known as SPARK) Linking Clemson’s Interdisciplinary Resilience Researchers Oct. 28, 8:30 - 10:30 a.m. Location - Hendrix Student Center, Almeda Jacks Ballroom Registration is required and limited to 50 participants. Resilience is the ability to resist failure, degrade gracefully, recover quickly, and adapt to change. It traverses scales (from individuals to societies) and disciplines. Recent virus pandemics and climate change indicate that resilience will become increasingly important in the future. TigerSphere brings together researchers from disciplines related to the natural environment, built environment, and social and behavioral systems to spark discussions and research collaborations related to how individuals, organizations, communities, and societies can become more resilient. Organizing committee members for TigerSphere were Pamela Murray-Tuite, professor of civil engineering; Thomas Britt, professor of psychology; Thomas Sharkey, professor of industrial engineering; and Lori Dickes, associate professor and associate chair in the Department of Political Science. Presenters Ashok Mishra Associate Professor, Civil Engineering Natasha Malmin Assistant Professor, Political Sciences Matt Powers Associate Professor, School of Architecture Lori Dickes Director, Masters in Public Administration Program Home Faculty Development Institutional Advancement Funding Opportunities Resources Events Request for Service Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram