Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Heart Health Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Arrhythmia Atherosclerosis Top Stories Screening Program Could Identify 1 Million Americans with Genetic Heart Disease A combination of genetic and lab testing could identify 1 million Americans who are at risk of early death from heart disease because they carry a gene that causes high cholesterol. Topic Campus News Hypertension Center Certification is a Big Deal. Here’s Why. The Columbia Hypertension Center has been certified by the American Heart Association, recognition that Columbia is a leader in the care of patients with high blood pressure. Hiroo Takayama Appointed Chief of Adult Cardiac Surgery Internationally renowned “surgeon’s surgeon” is known for his skill in highly complex cases. Topic Campus News Heart Disease in Women is Not Like Heart Disease in Men  Heart disease is the No. 1 one cause of death in American women, yet most are unaware of the risks and most cardiovascular studies are about men. Topic Obstetrics-Gynecology Latest News Cough Suppressant Knocks Some Hearts Back into Rhythm February 17, 2022 An over-the-counter cough suppressant can knock some heart cells back into rhythm, a finding that may lead to a new way to treat a rare heart condition. Topic Stem Cells What Black Women Should Know About Heart Disease February 11, 2022 Black American women are more likely than white women to develop heart disease, with stress and structural racism playing a role. Columbia cardiologist Marwah Abdalla explains. Topic Campus News From Teens to Retirees: 5 Essential Tips for a Healthy Heart at Every Age February 1, 2022 Essential tips for a healthy heart at any age, from Columbia cardiologist Marc Eisenberg. New Heart Disease Guidelines: What Patients Should Know December 23, 2021 New guidelines for patients with coronary artery disease emphasize the role of a multidisciplinary heart team, an approach pioneered at Columbia. Statins Could Benefit Millions of Young Adults with High Cholesterol, Study Suggests November 9, 2021 A new mathematical modeling study suggests that about a quarter of young adults between 18 and 39 could gain lifetime health benefits from taking statins. Topic General Medicine Aspirin: Making Sense of Changing Guidelines October 27, 2021 With the risks and benefits of taking aspirin to prevent heart attack and stroke so closely balanced, the decision must be tailored to each individual, says Columbia internist Andrew Moran, MD. Topic Campus News How Three Doctors Saved a Singer Who Suffered a Heart Attack on Stage September 23, 2021 When Henry Ray Fischbach suddenly collapsed during his performance, three doctors from Columbia University Irving Medical Center/NewYork-Presbyterian quickly stepped in to save his life. Topic Campus News Among Effective Antihypertensive Drugs, Less Popular Choice Is Slightly Safer July 26, 2021 Two drugs commonly used to treat high blood pressure are equally effective as single-drug therapies, but one is slightly safer, a new study has found. Topic Campus News Heart Problems Resolve in Majority of Kids with COVID Inflammatory Syndrome July 16, 2021 Most of the heart and immunologic problems seen in children with multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C)—a condition linked to COVID—were gone within a few months, Columbia researchers have found. Topic COVID-19 Different Physical Activity ‘Cocktails’ Have Similar Health Benefits May 19, 2021 A new study describes multiple ways to achieve the same health benefits from exercise—as long as your exercise “cocktail” includes plenty of light physical activity. Topic Research Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top