Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Health and Medicine Date October 13, 2021 2021-10-13 Media Contact Corrie Pikul [email protected] 401-863-1862 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Fewer patients sought treatment for kidney failure in early months of COVID-19 pandemic Substantially fewer patients initiated treatment for kidney failure in the beginning of the pandemic, a new study found, with Black patients in particular initiating treatment at significantly worse levels of kidney function. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — In the four months following the COVID-19 pandemic’s arrival in the U.S., the number of patients initiating treatment for kidney failure declined by 30%, a new study in JAMA Network Open found. Notably, Black patients and patients living in counties with high numbers of COVID-19 deaths initiated treatment with significantly worse levels of kidney function when compared to prior years. Lead author Kevin Nguyen, an investigator at Brown University’s School of Public Health, said that unfortunately, the results do not mean that patients with chronic kidney disease had fewer incidents of failure or had healthier kidneys. Rather, the decline in patients with kidney failure likely reflects decisions to delay treatment or changes in how health care was delivered early in the pandemic. Treatments often include regular dialysis or kidney transplants, two options disrupted after COVID-19’s arrival. “Treatment in the form of dialysis or a transplant is essential for the survival of people with chronic kidney disease,” Nguyen said. “Missed routine care could be potentially catastrophic. So understanding whether and how these initiations of treatment changed with respect to the pandemic is really important.” The goal of the study was to look at how the number and characteristics of patients initiating treatment for newly diagnosed kidney failure changed during the pandemic, Nguyen said. Because the burden of the pandemic has disproportionately impacted people of color and members of low-income families, the researchers also wanted to examine changes specifically within those groups. They used data from the Renal Management Information System Medical Evidence Form, a national census of all patients with kidney failure who initiate long-term dialysis or receive a preemptive kidney transplant. They studied the changes in the number of patients with kidney failure initiating treatment as well as estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), a key measure of kidney function, for the period of March 1 to June 30, 2020, and compared the numbers to the corresponding periods in 2018 and 2019. The researchers segmented their analysis by race/ethnicity, county-level COVID-19 mortality and neighborhood socioeconomic characteristics. Compared to the pre-COVID-19 years, March through June 2020 saw significant decreases in the percentage of patients with kidney failure who received preemptive transplants (2.1% pre-COVID-19 vs. 1.4% during COVID-19) or initiated dialysis treatment (15.8% pre-COVID-19 vs. 13.4% during COVID-19). In April 2020, the number of patients initiating treatment for kidney failure was approximately 30% lower than trends in prior years. Declines in the measurement of kidney function were observed exclusively among non-Hispanic Black patients (8.4 mL/min/1.73m2 pre-COVID-19 to 8.1 during COVID-19). There were significant declines in eGFR for patients residing in counties with the highest number of deaths from COVID-19 (9.5 vs. 9.2 during the pandemic), but not for patients residing in other counties. “In the early months of the pandemic, not only were there declines in the number of people initiating treatment for kidney failure, but for some groups, when they did initiate treatment, it was when they had lower kidney function,” Nguyen said. The largest reduction in the number of patients seeking treatment compared to prior years was in April 2020. Nguyen said that while a gradual rebound in treatment initiation occurred in the later months, it still didn’t reach pre-pandemic levels. The study findings underscore the importance of maintaining continuity of care and improving care for people with chronic kidney disease, Nguyen said, both throughout the pandemic and after it eventually subsides. “Any disruption in care can have grave consequences for these patients,” he said. The study wasn’t designed to examine the specific mechanisms driving these changes, but Nguyen said plausible explanations include patients delaying treatment for fear of getting sick, limited appointment availability, financial or logistical barriers to accessing care, as caused by the economic repercussions of the pandemic. He also noted that in some cases, the provider and patient together may have decided to postpone a transplant. Additional Brown contributors included Daeho Kim, Susan Hayes, Yoojin Lee, Maricruz Rivera-Hernandez, Shailender Swaminathan, Rebecca Thorsness and Amal N. Trivedi. This research was supported by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases of the National Institutes of Health under award number R01DK113398-01. Tags COVID-19 Research School of Public Health Related news: Health and Medicine Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers May 23, 2022 Elizabeth Samuels, an assistant professor at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and medical student Aneeqah Naeem argued for federal action supporting harm reduction centers such as those authorized in Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers Health and Medicine In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty May 16, 2022 Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the uncertainty of the future. Read Article Open details for In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Health and Medicine ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition May 3, 2022 The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 celebrated together at an in-person white coat ceremony that was held two years later than usual, but still felt timely. Read Article Open details for ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Fewer patients sought treatment for kidney failure in early months of COVID-19 pandemic Open details for Fewer patients sought treatment for kidney failure in early months of COVID-19 pandemic Bookmark this Page