Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Coronavirus Updates Guidelines Masks on Campus Info For... Vaccine Testing Case Report Communications FAQs Resources HEERF Reporting Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Review Guidelines Daily Self-Checker Testing Center View Cases on Campus Report CARES Act Home Coronavirus Updates Testing UofM COVID-19 Testing Center Open To: UofM Faculty, Staff and Students PCR Testing: Available for pick-up at the Student Health Center beginning May 9, 2022 - See instructions below The location - Central to the Arts Hub (formerly the Visitors Information Center at the corner of Central and Patterson) - will be closed during the summer months. Rapid Antigen Testing: Scheduling required Location: Student Health Center Appointments: Please schedule an appointment thru the MyPatient Portal to consult with a health care provider to schedule a rapid antigen. Walk-ups are not available due to health center having other scheduled appointments during business hours. If you have questions, please contact the Health Center at studenthealth@memphis.edu or 901.678.2287. Student Health Center Hours: Mondays: 8:00 am to 4:30 pm Tuesdays: 9:30 am to 4:30 pm Wednesdays: 8:00 am to 4:30 pm Thursdays: 8:00 am to 4:30 pm Fridays: 8:00 am to 4:30 pm * The last patient sign-in time is 3:30 pm. No patients may be signed-in after 3:30 pm. Testing Instructions Testing is free for UofM faculty, staff and students. View Detailed Instructions > Are You Sick? View signs and symptoms of COVID-19 and FAQs related to quarantine. Signs & Symptoms > Self-Checker Are you experencing any symptoms? Should you come to campus or get tested? Complete the Self-Checker Daily > Notification Requirements Students and employees must report positive COVID-19 test results. Self-Report Instructions > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.