Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Main Navigation Our Story Show Extended Division of Student Affairs Welcome Leadership Team Organizational Chart Our Purpose Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Assessment Programs Professional Development Staff of the Month Program Publications Faculty Resource Page Student Employment University Employment Contact Us California State University, Fullerton 2018-2023 Strategic Plan Branding Campus News Donate Facts & Figures College Access and Career Pathways Engagement and Well-Being Identity and Belonging Virtual Student Services Associated Students Inc., CSUF Titan Athletics Academic Appeals Title IX and Gender Equity Show Extended Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex Hispanic-Serving Institution Initiatives Student Affairs Staff of the Month Nominations are due on the fifth of every month for the previous month | Nomination form » About the Division of Student Affairs (DSA) Staff of the Month Program The Division of Student Affairs Staff of the Month program recognizes the significant contributions of staff employees from across the Division of Student Affairs. Staff are nominated by their colleagues because of outstanding service to the University community and reviewed by members of the Division of Student Affairs Professional Development Committee. Eligibility Eligible: Current Student Affairs staff (including ASI and Athletics) Non-eligible: Student staff, vendors. Recognition Staff who are recognized as DSA Staff of the Month will be highlighted via the VPSA website, VPSA social media, etc. All nominees will receive a nomination e-certificate. There is no financial compensation connected to this award. Nomination and Selection Criteria A scoring model will be used by the DSA Professional Development Committee based upon the following criteria. Candidates should meet all three criteria to be considered for the award. In order for the committee to fully evaluate the nominated employee’s service, it is important that at least one example is provided for each of the criteria within the nomination form. The same example can be used for multiple or all criteria as long as sufficient explanation is given for how the example relates to each criteria. Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Initiative and/Leadership (facilitates/provides innovative programs/services) Positive Attitude and/or Teamwork (displays a helpful and cooperative attitude toward others; assists with important projects/initiatives) Nomination form » Nomination Due Dates Nominations are due on the fifth of every month for the previous month. Questions Please contact Dr. Larry Martin. Staff of the Month Award Month Awarded Recipients November 2021 Alex Ortega Access and Engagement Coordinator Veterans Resource Center October 2021 Cristina Truong Assistant Director Titan Student Union Services and Food Pantry July 2021 Rob Scialdone Director of Business Operations Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs June 2021 Torrell Foree Coordinator African American Resource Center May 2021 Katie Cullum Admissions Information Center Associate Office of Admissions April 2021 Susan Collins ASI Corporate Affairs Senior Coordinator Associated Students, Inc. Sean Moran Advising Coordinator Veterans Resource Center March 2021 Victoria Ajemian Tuffy’s Basic Needs Services Center Coordinator Dean of Students Office Jessica Barco Director Office of Financial Aid Jaime Potter Head Athletic Trainer Titan Athletics Marlene Romero Care Services Coordinator Dean of Students Office February 2021 Emalie Chandras Coordinator, Student Conduct Dean of Students Office / Office of Student Conduct Brenda Hernandez Associate Director Office of Admissions January 2021 Adrienne Matthews Clinical Laboratory Scientist Health Services December 2020 Isaac Cervantes Assistant Director Titan Orientation Programs/Outreach and Recruitment Alyssa Hernandez Interim Director Educational Talent Search, Center for Educational Partnerships November 2020 Nat Betancourt Coordinator LGBT Queer Resource Center Marco Mendoza Client Services Counselor Office of Financial Aid Ashley Preston Head Coach Women's Volleyball Weston Prisbrey Assistant Dean of Students and Assistant Director of Residential Conduct Office of the Dean of Students This site is maintained by Division of Student Affairs. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact danielramirez@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.