Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information for: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Continuing Education Menu Main Nav Boston College Continuing Education Join Our Mailing List Back Back Close Programs Overview Certificates Advanced Clinical Practice for Adults Advanced Clinical Practice for CYF Cybersecurity Strategy Data Privacy Design Thinking Goal Achievement for Everyone Legal Insights Management & Supervision in Human Services Legal Education Workshops Social Work Workshops About Overview FAQs BC Beyond Overview Educational Travel Lifelong Learning Join Our Mailing List Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Legal Insights Home Programs Certificates Legal Insights Certificates Advanced Clinical Practice for Adults Advanced Clinical Practice for CYF Cybersecurity Strategy Data Privacy Design Thinking Goal Achievement for Everyone Legal Insights Management & Supervision in Human Services Insights: U.S. Legal System Certificate Program Insights programs are in-depth professional development programs for international and U.S. students, legal educators, and legal professionals. Join expert Boston College Law School faculty for this popular five-day introduction to the U.S. legal system – now offered online! Participants will learn about: The system of justice and legal problem-solving in the U.S. The role of the lawyer in the U.S. The facilitative role lawyers play in business transactions How to introduce evidence in a case How civil and criminal cases are handled in the U.S. The role of constitutional courts The appeals process in the U.S. Models of governance in times of stress Environmental law and lessons for the future Each of the five days will offer a two-hour, live synchronous session and a two-hour, recorded asynchronous session. The live sessions offered via Zoom will be interactive; participants may attend recorded sessions at a time that is convenient. Live Q&A sessions with instructors will follow the recorded sessions. Total program hours: 25 Insights: U.S. Legal System - Online August 15-19, 2022 Registration Deadline: August 8, 2022 Register Program Fee: $300 USD Please note that online participants are required to have a computer with video and audio capability. Participants must also create a Zoom account in advance according to Boston College security requirements. This program has a maximum capacity to allow for participant engagement and ensure the best possible experience. Register early to avoid disappointment! + - Monday, August 15, 2022 9:00 AM to 11:00 AM ET (Synchronous) Session 1 • Introduction to the U.S. Legal System and Legal Problem-Solving Instructor: Joan Blum This session introduces the fundamentals of the U.S. legal system. Topics include an overview of the U.S. Constitution focusing on federalism, the structure and function of courts, sources of legal authority, and common-law method. 2 Hours (Asynchronous) Session 2 • Introduction to Transactional Law Practice Instructor: Paul Tremblay Most lawyers in the United States engage in transactional practice. Unlike litigators who represent clients in court or administrative hearings, lawyers work with individuals or businesses to arrange their affairs, establish legal and organizational structures, and advise about compliance. This introduction will focus on one increasingly relevant aspect of that work—representing startups. The session will outline the typical steps in organizing a new business, including choosing an appropriate entity, arranging the relationships among the founders and any new investors or workers, protecting the enterprise’s intellectual property, and addressing any ethical issues that arise. Tuesday, August 16, 2022 9:00 AM to 10:00 AM ET (Synchronous) Session 2 • Q&A Instructor: Paul Tremblay Live discussion for Session 2 with the instructor. 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM ET (Synchronous) Session 3 • Professional Responsibility and the Role of the Lawyer Instructor: Judith A. McMorrow This session on professional responsibility and legal ethics will explore the significant responsibility lawyers have to shape law in a common law system, and their responsibility to advocate for clients in the adversary system. The session will also explore how professional responsibility norms differ slightly around the world, reflecting the varying visions of independence and the balance of client-centered lawyering and social responsibility. 2 Hours (Asynchronous) Session 4 • Introduction to Evidence Instructor: Jeffrey Cohen U.S. judges use rules of evidence to control the flow of information that a jury is allowed to hear. Evidentiary rules seek to balance access to relevant information with a desire to avoid evidence that is unreliable, inflammatory, or repetitive. This session will explore the reasons for Rules of Evidence and cover some of the major topics, including relevance and hearsay. Wednesday, August 17, 2002 9:00 AM to 10:00 AM ET (Synchronous) Session 4 • Q&A Instructor: Jeffrey Cohen Live Discussion for Session 4 with the instructor. 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM ET (Synchronous) Session 5 • Introduction to Civil Litigation: Pre-Trial Practice Instructor: Alan Minuskin This practice-focused, interactive session provides an overview of the development of a civil case from client interview through conclusion of a matter. Stages and skills covered include client interviewing, case planning and pleading, fact investigation (including discovery), client counseling, and negotiation. The session also highlights how a civil litigator's often competing ethical responsibilities (to the client, to the court, to the legal system, to the opposing side, and others) naturally lead to challenges in making strategic decisions. 2 Hours (Asynchronous) Session 6 • Perspectives: Judges and Prosecutors on the U.S. Legal System Instructors: Hon. Christine McEvoy and Kevin Curtin Judge Christine M. McEvoy and Prosecutor Kevin J. Curtin address the respective roles of an independent judiciary and a professional prosecutor’s office in the U.S. criminal justice system. Their focus is on the process of fairly adjudicating the criminal responsibility of persons accused of crimes, while protecting the individual rights of all parties involved and respecting the accused’s right to the due process of law. Thursday, August 18, 2022 9:00 AM to 10:00 AM ET (Synchronous) Session 6 • Q&A Instructors: Hon. Christine McEvoy Live Discussion for Session 6 with the instructor. 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM ET (Synchronous) Session 7 • The Role of Constitutional Courts in Democracies Instructor: Pedro Lenza Constitutional democracies around the world face a common issue in justifying and accepting judicial review. When a constitutional court strikes down legislative enactments passed by a body elected by the people, it raises a “counter-majoritarian legitimacy” issue. Why should unelected judges be able to overturn the legislatively determined will of the people? This session will analyze precedents to explore the roles played by the courts in constitutional democracies – counter-majoritarian, representative, and enlightened. 2 Hours (Asynchronous) Session 8 • Introduction to Appellate Litigation Instructor: Thomas Barnico This session will introduce the student to appellate litigation in the United States. We will cover the organization and jurisdiction of the United States Court of Appeals and the United States Supreme Court, including the considerations that inform Supreme Court review of lower federal and state court decisions. The session will next cover the key elements of appellate litigation: the decision to appeal, preparation of the briefs and record, and oral argument. Finally, we will study a case argued by the instructor and decided in the United States Supreme Court, Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, 530 U.S. 363 (2000) (striking down Massachusetts law restricting state entities from buying goods or services from companies doing business with Myanmar (Burma)). Friday, August 19, 2022 9:00 AM to 10:00 AM ET (Synchronous) Session 8 • Q&A Instructor: Thomas Barnico Live Discussion for Session 8 with the instructor. 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM ET (Synchronous) Session 9 • Resilient Models of Governance in Times of Human and Planetary Stress Instructor: Zygmunt Plater Given the current situation of stressful global existential threats – most notably climate change and coronavirus (COVID-19) – lawyers need to understand how the complex structures of civic governance in the U.S. and around the world have evolved over the years. This session will explore how these structures successfully – or less successfully – manage the dynamically changing demands of new threats, new technologies, and evolving societal norms. 12:00 PM to 12:30 PM ET (Synchronous) Session 10 • Q&A Instructor: Zygmunt Plater Live Discussion for Session 10 with the instructor. 12:30 PM to 1:00 PM ET (Synchronous) Closing Session Facilitator: Judith A. McMorrow 2 Hours (Asynchronous) Session 10 • Environmental Law and Its Lessons for Future Governance Instructor: Zygmunt Plater Environmental protection law is a relatively young sector of law in the U.S. and abroad; however, patterns and frameworks have evolved that illuminate major themes and necessities of long-term societal governance and sustainability. Environmental protection law is one of the only areas of the U.S. legal system that explicitly takes into account the needs of future generations in establishing its regulatory standards. In this session, we will explore some of the specific features of U.S. environmental law that have direct relevance in other national systems, as well as its general thematic features, which are relevant in virtually all modern national states. U.S. Legal System Program Testimonials, August 2020 Program: - “I can say, with absolute certainty, that this course exceeded my expectations. I was positively surprised by the quality and depth of the content, the material provided and the professors. Above all, I want to thank the warm welcome I received from all the professionals and students involved in this course. I'm sure this was one of the best experiences I've ever had.” - “The course was excellent in all aspects and met the proposal to introduce the American legal system wonderfully. Amazing teachers, great lessons. It met all my expectations. I hope to see you soon again. Thank you!" - “I am happy with the content of the course. Very stimulating lectures, great teachers, and good structured classes. I learned so much. Thank you all.” Insights: U.S. Legal System Instructors Certificate Pricing Insights: U.S. Legal System The program fee for Insights: U.S. Legal System is $300 USD. Register General Information: You must be 18 years old to participate in the Insights U.S. Legal System program. All sales are final; we are not able to offer refunds. Registrations may not be transferred to another person or to another course, workshop, or program. Online registration is required to participate in the program. Tuition for the week-long program is $300 to be paid by debit or credit card. Registrations will be processed upon receipt of payment. Payment is due in full in order to enroll. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Continuing Education 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-2063 | continuinged@bc.edu About Offerings BC Beyond Connect with Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College