Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month Pride Month UC Alumni Association Thy Loyal Children The UC Alumni Association exists to serve the University of Cincinnati and its 327,000+ alumni across the United States and throughout the world. Whether you're just starting out in your career or you're an established professional looking to help out a new graduate, we offer a broad range of opportunities to Bearcat alumni. Get involved Update your info Refer a Student Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Programs & Upcoming Events Harness the power of the UC alumni network. Join Bearcats Connect, an online platform where UC alumni, students, faculty and staff can network, mentor and grow professionally. Alumni Week April 4-10, 2022 is your opportunity to connect with fellow Bearcats, the UC Alumni Association and our alma mater. Show the world you’re a Bearcat for Life with exclusive UC alumni apparel. All purchases from the UC Alumni Store support students. View All Alumni Events Stay Connected with UC Keep up with your alma mater and all things happening at UC. Network with fellow alumni Your college experience may be behind you, but your Bearcat family is still here for your present and your future. Bearcat Pride Find fellow Bearcats to cheer on the home team at game watches, bowl games, tournaments and more. Oh varsity, dear varsity, thy loyal children we will be... UC Alma Mater UC Alumni at a Glance Graduates 327K Alumni Networks 50+ Countries Represented 127 UC Alumni Spotlights Bryard Huggins, CCM '17 The Nashville-based composer, producer and smooth jazz recording artist Bryard Huggins released a new album to celebrate his decade-long career in the recording industry. Read More Emily Maxwell, A&S '08 The award-winning visual journalist with multiple Emmys to her credit is known for her documentary work on poverty, public housing, environmental issues and wildlife conservation. Read More UC Alumni News Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. DAAP grad Lee Wilger lands job at Relativity Textiles in... May 26, 2022 Relativity Textiles offers co-op experiences for DAAP students, and Lee Wilger is returning there as an employee. Gift names new UC College of Law building atrium May 23, 2022 A University of Cincinnati alumnus has made a gift of $500,000 to the new University of Cincinnati College of Law building. H.C. Buck Niehoff, JD ’72, HON ’11, is honoring his former law firm, Peck, Shaffer & Williams LLP, by naming the two-story atrium. Debug Query for this Explore More News Our Partners The UC Alumni Association has partnered with GEICO to save you even more on car insurance with a special Alumni Association discount. Find out how much you could save today! Learn More Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top