Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Office of University Compliance and Ethics Office of University Compliance and Ethics Helping Clemson Do the Right Thing Clemson University is committed to holding ourselves and our community members to the highest standards of ethical and lawful conduct in all our academic and business activities. The Office of University Compliance and Ethics exists to help leadership, faculty, staff and students do the right thing. Clemson is governed by an extensive and complicated collection of laws, rules and regulations. Compliance with this higher-education regulatory landscape is simply non-negotiable; indeed, compliance is everyone's responsibility. That means we are each responsible for: Knowing and understanding the policies, standards, laws, rules and regulations that apply to our area. Reporting concerns in a timely manner. Working together to resolve concerns. The office of University Compliance and Ethics is your partner in successfully navigating your responsibilities on behalf of Clemson University. Do you have a difficult decision to make? Can the Office of University Compliance and Ethics help? Whether taking action or observing someone else's actions, consider: Clemson University offers many options to ask for help or to raise a concern without fear of retaliation. Speak with your supervisor or other leadership, Ombuds, Office of General Counsel, Internal Audit, University Compliance and Ethics or the Ethics and Safety Hotline. Home Ethics/Safety Hotline Protecting Minors Policy Program Resources Standards of Ethical Conduct Contact Us Do you have a question for a Compliance Partner related to: Athletics/NCAA Campus Crime/Reporting Conflicts of Interest Discrimination Export Controls Human Resources Information Security Legal Matters Research Compliance Occupational & Environmental Safety Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram