Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date October 27, 2020 2020-10-27 Media Contact Brian E. Clark [email protected] 401-863-1638 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Paxson to chair association of America’s leading research universities Brown President Christina H. Paxson will chair the board of directors for the Association of American Universities, which helps to shape national policy for higher education, science and innovation. Brown University President Christina H. Paxson will serve as the chair of the Association of American Universities Board of Directors. Photo by Nick Dentamaro WASHINGTON, D.C. [Brown University] — The members of the Association of American Universities, an organization composed of America’s leading research universities, elected Brown University President Christina H. Paxson as chair of its board of directors on Tuesday, Oct. 27. As chair, Paxson will help to guide AAU’s work and serve as a spokesperson for the association, particularly on federal policy issues affecting research universities. She will represent AAU in discussions with lawmakers, assist in developing national policy positions, and play a significant role in determining the association’s agenda during the coming year. “This is a moment of significant disruption in higher education, and engagement with federal lawmakers and policymakers regarding the impact of research, education and scholarship is increasing in critical importance,” Paxson said. “I look forward to working with Barbara Snyder, AAU staff and other AAU presidents to further the ability of research institutions to drive discovery that finds cures, saves lives and fuels innovation that drives economic growth across the country." Paxson’s election marks the first time AAU has had both a woman president — Snyder, who began in the role in 2020 after serving as president of Case Western Reserve University — and board chair simultaneously. Paxson succeeds Indiana University President Michael A. McRobbie, who recently announced his retirement and had served as AAU chair since July 2019. University of Pittsburgh President Patrick D. Gallagher was elected to serve as vice chair. “President Paxson’s experience as an economist and her expertise in public health make her particularly well-suited to help lead AAU during this time,” Snyder. “Her position as a leader of a large, diverse university shows her keen understanding of the role research universities play in educating the next generation of leaders and scholars while transforming the economies of the world, the nation, and the cities and towns they serve.” Paxson has served as Brown University’s 19th president and a professor of economics and public policy since July 1, 2012. Under her leadership, Brown has fortified its standing as a leading research university known for its excellence and innovation in undergraduate education, its transformational vision in fueling economic development through community and government partnerships, and its commitment to inclusion and access. Previously, she was dean of the Princeton School of International and Public Affairs and a professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University. Paxson became a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2017 and has previously served as vice chair of the AAU board. She has served as vice president of the American Economic Association, is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and is vice chair of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston’s board of directors. Founded in 1900, the AAU is composed of 65 of America’s leading research universities dedicated to transforming lives through education, research and innovation. AAU member universities collectively help shape policy for higher education, science and innovation; promote best practices in undergraduate and graduate education; and strengthen the contributions of leading research universities to American society. Tags President Related news: News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Paxson to chair association of America’s leading research universities Open details for Paxson to chair association of America’s leading research universities Bookmark this Page