Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Transportation & Parking Services Menu Search TTU Transportation & Parking Services Transportation Bicycling Busing Raider Ride TECS Rental Fleet Fleet Services Lime Welcome to the cycling community of Texas Tech! Each year, thousands of students and employees choose to bike to and from campus or even from their parking lot to their buildings. Texas Tech is the first League of American Bicyclists silver-level Bicycle Friendly University in Texas (press release). This section of the website aims to provide the information you need to know about bicycling on campus: Basics (safety precautions and state and university regulations) Bicycle Sales (a TPS program that sells used bicycles to students and employees for a nominal cost) Registration (a free way to protect your bicycle and learn about bicycling events on campus) Bike Clinics (a free tune-up and diagnostic service held for campus cyclists twice a year) Bicycle Coordinating Committee (a diverse group that effects positive changes for bicycling on campus) For additional questions about bicycling on campus, feel free to contact TPS at (806) 742-PARK (7275) or bike.parking@ttu.edu. About Citibus and Bus Routes Citibus provides on- and off-campus bus service in Lubbock under the direction and guidance of Texas Tech's Student Government Association. On-campus service is free to anyone on the Texas Tech campus. Students may ride for free on any Citibus off-campus route by showing their Texas Tech ID card. Click here to see schedules and maps. On-Campus Bus Routes Two routes are used just for the Texas Tech campus. Download the TPS campus routes brochure here. Red Raider Route Double T Route Circles campus clockwise Circles campus counter-clockwise Service every 6 minutes* from 7:25 a.m. to 7:17 p.m. Service every 5 minutes* from 7:25 a.m. to 6:59 p.m. *Duration may be longer after 4 p.m. Off-Campus Routes Citibus provides a number of Off-Campus routes, including ones that transfer to Texas Tech campus buses. Click here to see a list of maps for these routes. DoubleMap Bus Tracking App Citibus offers DoubleMap for live bus tracking. Download the app through the App Store or Google Play store. Search for "Citibus (Lubbock)" in the location selection after downloading. Need Help? Contact us! Email the transportation demand management staff at transportation@ttu.edu for bus, Raider Ride, and bicycling questions. Evening Transportation Service From 6 p.m. to 2:45 a.m. seven days a week during the semester, Transportation & Parking Services provides a night shuttle service to students across campus. Request a ride during service hours through the TapRide app (Google Play, App Store). A valid student ID is needed. Raider Ride uses white 10-passenger vans for service. Raider Ride operates from the night before the first day of class through the Sunday morning following commencement during the fall, spring, and summer II semesters. For summer I, Raider Ride operates from the first day of class through the morning following the last final. Raider Ride does not operate on Texas Tech holidays. Interested in driving for Raider Ride? Contact transportation@ttu.edu! TPS launched TECS in September 2019 to provide a way for Texas Tech University employees to have a free way to get around campus while helping decrease vehicle traffic and increase pedestrian safety on campus. TECS offers free rides to Texas Tech University employees across the TTU, HSC, Texas Tech Plaza, and Downtown campuses every weekday when TTU is open from 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Get rides on demand, or schedule a ride from 7 days to 2 hours in advance. Creating an Account Download the Tapride app from the App Store or Google Play. Open TapRide, and select Texas Tech University from the list. Create an account using your TTU email address as your username and email. Requesting or Scheduling a Ride Open the TapRide app, and log in. When do you need a ride? If scheduling 7 days to 2 hours in advance: Select "Schedule a Ride." Enter your pickup date and time. Select "Next." If needing a ride within 2 hours, select "Start." Choose your pickup and drop-off locations from the pre-determined locations or by typing in the building names of the locations. When correct, select "Confirm Ride." Select the numbers of passengers and any other requirement for the trip (ADA access, etc.). Select "Submit Ride." You will receive a push notification with your expected pickup time when a driver is assigned your ride. (This can vary depending on the demand for the service at that time. You will be notified if the expected pickup time changes.) Your assigned van will "honk" when they arrive. This sends a push notification to your phone letting you know your ride has arrived. Please be ready for your pickup time. The driver waits three minutes after they "honk." Meet your shuttle at the point indicated on the TapRide app. Notes on Scheduled Rides To check on or edit a scheduled ride, open the menu from the top lefthand corner in the app. You can schedule up to 10 rides at one time. Download these instructions here! About Vehicle Rental Vehicle Rental provides clean, low mileage 7-passenger and 12-passenger vans for rent to any university department. Rental charges are conveniently charged to departmental accounts. Vehicle Rental Process Contact Vehicle Rental Fleet to check availability at transportation@ttu.edu Complete the Vehicle Reservation Order Form The completed Vehicle Reservation Order Form will be automatically sent to TDM & Transit Manager Craig Cotton Vehicle rental is scheduled All users must possess a valid operator's license and be approved by the Office of Risk Management. Driver will pick-up vehicle on scheduled date and time Rental Rates Our rental rates are as follows: 7-passenger vans have an initial rental fee of $60 per day. The first 200 miles for each day are free, with an additional $0.35 fee for every mile thereafter. 12-passenger vans have an initial rental fee of $70 per day. The first 200 miles for each day are free, with an additional $0.40 fee for every mile thereafter. Quick Links Vehicle Reservation Order Form Pick-up Location About Fleet Management Our Mission is to provide and manage safe, economical, and appropriate transportation for faculty and staff to perform their official duties. User Authorization All users must possess a valid operator's license and be approved by the Office of Risk Management. Vehicle Use Reporting Government Code, Section 2203.01 requires that each operator make a daily report of use on the State of Texas Vehicle Use Report. These reports may be printed from this page. Accident Reporting All accidents involving a TTU vehicle must be documented according to the procedures established in TTU OP 80.08 - Collisions Involving University Vehicles. Training Vehicle Fleet Management will provide reporting compliance training periodically to all applicable areas. In addition, training may be requested by individual departments on an as-needed basis. The 15-Passenger Van Driver Training Course is offered through Human Development. Contact Information Amy Lewis, Fleet Manager Administrative Support Center, Room 201 407 Flint Ave Lubbock, TX 79409 Mail Stop: 43161 Phone: 806-834-5952 Map Hours of Operation Monday - Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Operating Policies & Procedures OP 2.03 - Acceptance of Gifts and Grants from Private Philanthropic Sources OP 61.01 - Use of University Facilities, Equipment, Vehicles, Supplies, and Services for Private Purposes Prohibited OP 72.15 - Purchasing/Leasing Motor Vehicle OP 79.13 - University-Related Travel by Motor Vehicle OP 80.01 - Painting University Vehicles and Equipment OP 80.02 - Vehicle Rental Office Check-Out Procedure OP 80.03 - Out-of-Country Use of University Vehicles OP 80.04 - Disposal of Motor Vehicles as Surplus Property OP 80.05 - Refueling Procedure for University-Owned Vehicles OP 80.06 - Leased or Loaned Passenger Vehicles and Car Allowances OP 80.07 - Vehicle Fleet Management Program OP 80.08 - Collisions Involving University Vehicles Forms Auto Collision Information Monthly Use Report Vehicle Use Report: Tips for Compliance Vehicle Accident Investigation Vehicle Accident Witness Statement Scooters and E-Bikes Catch a Lime-S electric scooter or Lime-E electric assist bicycle to get around campus and Lubbock! Pell Grant recipients and students receiving other government assistance are eligible for reduced rates (PDF). Follow the same rules as bicycles Always park at bike racks and in designated Lime parking zones Wearing a helmet is strongly encouraged <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Contact Call TTU ParkingContact Call TTU Parking Call TTU Parking EventsEvents Events Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU Contact TTU Transportation & Parking Services Like Transportation & Parking Services on FacebookLike Transportation & Parking Services on Facebook Follow Transportation & Parking Services on twitterFollow Transportation & Parking Services on twitter Address MS 43161, Administrative Support Center, Room 145, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX, 79409-3161 Phone 806.742.7275 Email parking@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversitySep 10, 2021 1:00 PM Transportation & Parking Services Information For Transportation & Parking Services Information For Back Student Parking Transportation & Parking Services Information For Student Parking Back Residence Hall Parking Commuter Parking Summer Parking Law Student Parking RAs, TAs, and GAs Student Athletes Park and Pay Motorcycle Parking ADA LEV (Green) Vehicle Parking Holiday and Break Parking Finals Parking and Busing Faculty & Staff Transportation & Parking Services Information For Faculty & Staff Back Employee Parking Options Departmental Portal Employee Dependent Parking Special Event Arrangements Supplemental Permissions Retired Faculty and Staff Departmental Vehicles Motorcycle Parking ADA LEV (Green) Vehicle Parking Holiday and Break Parking Visitors Transportation & Parking Services Information For Visitors Back Visitor Parking Map Game Day Parking Vendors and Contractors RV Spaces Transportation Transportation & Parking Services Information For Transportation Back Bicycling Busing Lime Raider Ride TECS Rental Fleet Fleet Management Construction Projects Texas Tech Commitment Resources Transportation & Parking Services Resources Back Transparency Transportation & Parking Services Resources Transparency Back Permit Costs Permit Cost History Citations and Enforcement Appeals Where Your Dollar Goes Price Comparisons Transportation Master Plan Campus Maps Rules and Regulations TPS Helps Transportation & Parking Services Resources TPS Helps Back Bike Clinic Bikes for Cites Expectant Mother Free Car Clinic Motorist Assistance Program Park Hunger Pop-Tarts for Tickets Short-Term Assistance Parking Toys for Tickets About TPS Transportation & Parking Services Resources About TPS Back TPS History Awards and Publications Recommend an Employee Event Parking Transportation & Parking Services Event Parking Back Submit Event View Events Game Day Parking Contact TPS My Parking Transportation & Parking Services My Parking Back My Parking Account Pay My Citation Pay My Boot Or Tow Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index