Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Make a Gift Set Navigation title in component Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program Make a Gift Giving Private support allows us to infuse new resources into dynamic programs and services that enhance the university experience and build a stronger sense of community. Such gifts help to improve our diversity recruiting of faculty, staff and students by offering professorships, research grants, scholarships, and support for professional development. We invite you to join our efforts in making the University of Cincinnati best in class. CDO Impact Fund right arrow down arrow The Chief Diversity Officer Impact Fund provides additional resources to create, support, or enhance diverse and inclusive programs, projects, activities, and practices. Women's Center right arrow down arrow The UC Women's Center promotes equitable and safe environments on campus for women through advocacy, research and education. LGBTQ Center right arrow down arrow The LGBTQ Center is an inclusive campus community that welcomes people of all sexual orientations and gender identities and provides support, resources and advocacy. Gen-1 Theme House right arrow down arrow Gen-1 Theme House is a 24-hour living and learning community for first-generation college students who receive support through mentoring, tutoring, and professional advising. Veterans Discretionary Fund right arrow down arrow The Veterans Discretionary Fund helps to support the University of Cincinnati's efforst of acknowledging the service of the men and women in the Armed Froces and is committed to providing a full range of quality academic, career, counseling and student services to veterans and ROTC cadets as they pursue their dreams and higher education goals. Bearcats Pantry right arrow down arrow The UC Bearcats Pantry provides free food, hygiene items, and cleaning supplies to students with food and other insecurities. The pantry also provides meal vouchers that can be used at campus dining halls. The pantry is meant to provide supplemental support which means we do not supply enough food to completely eradicate food insecurity. Our goal is to assist students in need by cutting down their grocery bills and connecting them to other resources in an effort to promote independence. The Bearcats Pantry is here to support students of all backgrounds and serve the student population. Accessibility (Disability Services Fund) right arrow down arrow The Disability Services Fund is dedicated to empowering students with disabilities through the delivery of reasonable accommodations, support services, and tutoring assistance while educating the UC community to see beyond disabilities to the richness of inclusion. African American Cultural & Resource Center (AACRC) right arrow down arrow AACRC advocates for cultural and racial understanding in higher education, and serves as a resource about the Black experience through peer mentoring and first year experience programs for students. African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow For over 20 years, 4A has served the University and its African American alumni to create opportunities for graduates to reconnect with each other, current students, and their alma mater. 4A accomplishes this through social programming, professional development, community service, and supporting our students through networking and philanthropy. Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program right arrow down arrow The program provides full-tuition scholarships and stipends to academically talented students of color. Aside from the financial support, Turner also has a program component to ensure the retention, graduation, and placement of students. Through a close-knit team of staff, alumni, and corporate partners, Turner provides a series of activities and workshops to enhance students’ personal, social and professional development. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top