We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × About Cal Poly Pomona About Cal Poly Pomona Cal Poly Pomona is among the best public universities in the West and is nationally ranked for helping students achieve economic success. As an inclusive polytechnic university, we cultivate success through experiential learning, discovery and innovation. Our graduates are ready to succeed in the professional world on Day 1. Faculty in all disciplines put theory to practice, providing students with opportunities to apply their knowledge in hands-on projects, research collaborations, and valuable internship and service-learning programs. Our history and geography are unlike any other university in the region. Nowhere else can students ride an Arabian horse, practice on a Steinway piano, bring a new product to market, and build a liquid-fueled rocket Cal Poly Pomona Overview Cal Poly Pomona offers an affordable, life-changing education. Less than 30 miles east of Los Angeles, it enjoys the excitement of a diverse metropolitan while retaining the serenity of a foothill community. President's Welcome Mission, Vision & Values Campus Community Facts & Figures Public Good Why Cal Poly Pomona As a polytechnic university, Cal Poly Pomona utilizes a technology-enhanced, learn-by-doing approach to education. Students enjoy endless opportunities for involvement in a vibrant and diverse community. A Polytechnic Approach Learning By Doing A Diverse Community Affordable and Accessible High Quality Well Ranked Heritage Discover Cal Poly Pomona’s rich legacy and its connection to cereal company magnate W.K. Kellogg, a boys’ school founder, and Arabian horses. A Brief History The Kellogg Connection University Archives Kellogg House Pomona Visitor Information Cal Poly Pomona is best experienced in person. We invite you to explore our 1,438-acre campus, with its rolling hills and gardens. The university is alive with year-round events and activities. Directions Parking Getting Around Campus Dining Shopping Lodging Nearby Attractions Campus Maps and Tours Easily accessible from the 10 and 57 freeways, Cal Poly Pomona is strategically located at the nexus of Los Angeles, Orange, San Bernardino and Riverside counties. Campus & Area Maps Campus Tours Virtual Tours News and Events An active community of faculty, staff and students provide a constant stream of news and events. Ways to Get News Ways to Share News Media Contacts Strategic Communications Administration Many academic, administrative and support groups contribute to the university’s success and growth. Learn about the university’s management and organizational structure. Administration Overview President's Office Academic Affairs Administrative Affairs Student Affairs Information Technology University Advancement CPP Philanthropic Foundation Other Governing Bodies A number of organizations are involved in the university's governance and administration. Learn more about these critical groups. Academic Senate Associated Students Incorporated Cal Poly Pomona Foundation, Inc. CPP Philanthropic Foundation The California State University system Popular Contacts Operator (909) 869-POLY Admissions (909) 869-5299 Alumni Affairs (909) 869-2963 Extended University (909) 869-2288 Giving (909) 869-4997 Job Openings (909) 869-2100 Strategic Communications (909) 869-3342 Tours (909) 869-3529 Transcripts (909) 869-3000 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers