Skip to main content Support the center Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Search Close Button Search for: Search Search Search Open Button Menu Trigger Button SEARCH Search for: Search Search Who We Are About Us Funders and Partners Employment What We Do About Our Work What We’re Working on FAQ Guidance & Research Guidance by Issue Area High Impact Giving Guide New & Upcoming Guidance About High Impact Philanthropy Education Our Education Programs High Impact Philanthropy Academy Programs for Penn Students Events News & Media News & Media Multimedia Resources Connect With Us The Center for High Impact Philanthropy is a trusted source of knowledge and education to help donors around the world do more good. Guidance by Issue Education Programs Guidance by Issue Education Programs Preschool photo courtesy of ACEV New Guidance Early School Success The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted learning for children of all ages. For children ages 0 – 8, brain development and social and emotional learning are especially critical. Early school success predicts later school success and a host of positive life outcomes. Unless we can recover learning lost during the pandemic and accelerate gains, we risk losing a generation of children. Here’s how you can help. Get the guidance Courtesy of FreeFrom New Guidance Choosing Change: Assessing Grant Proposals for Addressing Structural Inequality The Choosing Change toolkit can help donors and funders at all levels identify proposals and teams that have potential to create significant positive impact in the world. Get the Guidance New Guidance Crisis in Ukraine: How Can I Help? The Russian invasion of Ukraine has produced the largest refugee crisis in Europe this century. In less than a week, 1 million residents – mostly women and children – fled their homes. Right now, those in Ukraine face urgent needs for medical care and basic needs like food, water, and fuel. Here’s how to help. Ukraine: How Can I Help? Enrolling for Fall 2022 High Impact Philanthropy Academy, now online Gain critical skills and knowledge to make a bigger impact through giving in a flexible online program. Learn More [The High Impact Giving Guide] is the single most useful guide to smart giving that I’ve come across since I began writing about philanthropy nearly two years ago. – Marc Gunther, Nonprofit Chronicles Read the Full Article News & Blogs The Latest More News May 12, 2022 Philanthropy News Digest Interviews CHIP Founding Executive Director Kat Rosqueta February 3, 2022 Social Policy, the Workforce, and the COVID Economy: A Conversation between Kat Rosqueta and Ioana Marinescu February 1, 2022 Video: Social Policy, the Workforce, & the COVID Economy More News Katherina Rosqueta at TEDxPhiladelphia Understanding Impact What Is High Impact Philanthropy? High impact philanthropy is the practice of using philanthropic funds for social impact. Practicing high impact philanthropy starts with a social impact goal, then uses the best available evidence, considerations of cost and impact, and a commitment to ongoing learning to achieve that goal. It’s not about how much you give, but how well you give to drive positive, social change. Learn More The Center for High Impact Philanthropy 3815 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6179 (Map) impact@sp2.upenn.edu | 215-573-7266 Who We Are What We Do Guidance by Issue Education Programs News & Events Connect with Us Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Disclaimer | Emergency Services | Privacy Policy | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Report Copyright Infringement Copyright © 2022 Center for High Impact Philanthropy – University of Pennsylvania