Home About Tracks Workshops Schedules Welcome Certificate Resources Home About Tracks Workshops Schedules Welcome Certificate Resources PSYM 2023: January 9-12, 2023 Dallas, TX Intentionally Practical. Intentionally Theological. Perkins School of Youth Ministry, under the direction of The Office of External Programs at Perkins School of Theology at SMU, coordinates training programs exclusively designed to resource those in the church whose ministries focus on youth and young adults. PSYM has been engaging and equipping youth workers since 1987. What is different about PSYM? We’re not merely a conference. We’re a school for youth ministry. It’s right there in the name. We enable a robust community of learning where every youth worker is empowered to share their experiences, contexts, successes, and failures. Spanning four decades of youth ministry training, we’re a trusted partner for congregations and leaders investing in young people. LEADERSHIP STAFF Bart Patton Director of the Office of External Programs SMU Perkins School of Theology 214-768-1333 2022 PSYM Design Team Joy Allen Claire Condrey John Cravens Eddie Erwin Emma Flores Dickey Julie Lafosse Shanterra McBride Michelle Moore Chris Wilterdink TRACKS FOUNDATIONS TRACK The Most Practical Choice | Recommended 1-2 Years Experience or First Formal Training in Youth Ministry Foundations offers youth workers and volunteers an extensive course on primary material for ministry including: Professionalism, Management, Volunteers, Safety, Relationships, Programming, Trips and Events, Leadership, Adolescent Development, Budgeting, Teaching, Communication, Self-Care, Resources, and more. Students receive a Certificate of Completion for Foundations in Youth Ministry Training. Foundations is a preset track of workshops, separate from the “Workshops” track. 2022 Event Registration CLOSED September 22nd to October 22nd, 2021 (Early): $335 October 23rd to December 15th, 2021: $385 December 16th to December 21st, 2021 - Noon (Late): $435 WORKSHOPS TRACK Youth Ministry Practice and Philosophy | Recommended 2-50 Years Experience Select workshops to sharpen an area of your ministry. Our ministry workshops are designed to provide key conversations around practical skills and implementation opportunities in four different comprehensive ministry tracks: + Practice of Youth Ministry (PRACTICE) + Theology of Youth Ministry (THEOLOGY) + Care in Youth Ministry (CARE) + Congregational Youth Ministry (CONGREGATIONAL) 2022 Event Registration CLOSED September 22nd to October 22nd, 2021 (Early): $335 October 23rd to December 15th, 2021: $385 December 16th to December 21st, 2021 - Noon (Late): $435 PERKINS CertificatE IN PRACTICAL MINISTRY: YOUTH MINISTRY Theology and Critical Thinking for Youth Ministry | Recommended 3-50 Years Experience and Prior Formal Training Perkins Certificate in Practical Ministry courses are designed to provide graduate-level theological training in youth ministry. This Certificate does not carry academic credit. The Certificate may be transferred for a Certification in the Youth Ministry in the United Methodist Church through the General Board of Higher Education and Ministry of the UMC and a student’s Annual Conference. Workshops Workshop attendance will be limited to the first 28 registrants for each workshop. Choose 1 workshop for each block (A & B). A Block Workshop Selections Tuesday and Wednesday Afternoons Beyond Nine-Square: Intentional Gaming in Youth Ministry With Paul Corder Gain exposure to different types of board and card games beyond typical “youth group” games Gain practical ideas for tying games into lesson themes Discover ways that gaming can help build community in their youth groups and congregation Critical Conversations in Youth Ministry: Gender With Heather Gottas Moore This course will: invite students to think critically about their understanding of gender and gender identity, challenge students to expand beyond the gender binary, and encourage students to discuss and reflect on the practical considerations in their ministry contexts. Students will: Narrate historical events utilizing appropriate terms and contextualized statistical data. Articulate and evaluate established social gender roles, gendered language, the gender binary, and the importance of the participation of gender-diverse voices in leadership and decision making. Deconstruct a myth about gender identity. Distinguish at least two ways by which the use of self-identified personal pronouns can supports flourishing and safety in the lives of young people. Formulate at least three ways they can integrate their learnings into their ministry context. Values Discernment and Design in Youth Ministry With Sam Halverson Do your ministry programs seem to be “responses” to the squeaky wheel or centered around getting numbers? Do you know what unique values your ministry has? Who determines those values? Learn how to discern your values with a team and how to build your youth ministry based on those values Participants will learn the importance of modeling youth ministry around specific contextual values Participants will discover how to find and form the best discernment team Participants will prepare for an intensive ministry discernment experience with a team Participants will learn “next steps” for designing effective ministry around discerned values When Moments Become Movements: Theologies of Liberation With Ray Jordan The epistle of Galatians offers that “in the fullness of time” God sent Jesus. In the fullness of time? What does that mean? There are moments of history when the time seems particularly pregnant with purpose and right for God’s liberating love and message of hope. Arguably, the summer of 2020 was a “fullness of time” moment for racial justice and human rights, but what does our faith have to say about it? This seminar will investigate theologies of liberation, also born from moments that became movements. How did they emerge? What insight do they offer? How can they help us navigate the current political and social climate? These questions and others will be addressed during this workshop. A Moving Target: Evaluating Youth Ministry in the Time of COVID With the Reboot Youth Ministry Leadership Team & Consultants Participants will learn the difference between assessment and evaluation Participants will engage with a range of questions for ministry evaluation Participants will develop evaluable goals for youth ministry Participants will workshop applied techniques for different types of evaluations B Block Workshop Selections Wednesday and Thursday Mornings Classroom Management for Youth Ministry With Chad McElveen How to establish a better learning environment at church Practical steps to effectively teach all students Sustaining structure and rhythm in ministry John Wesley on the Spiritual Formation of Youth With Wendy Mohler-Seib The course will describe a Wesleyan understanding of spiritual formation The course will analyze Wesley’s works as a framework for understanding the spiritual capabilities of youth The course will examine Wesley’s structures for spiritual formation and their impact The course will invite conversation and reflection to consider practical implications for particular contexts Ministering in the Age of Anxiety With Terry Parsons Do you ever feel like crying with the psalmist, “How long, O LORD, will we have to live in this COVID age of anxiety?” You minister to youth in their unique age of anxiety, and that has multiplied in the ever-changing and ongoing pandemic age. This engaging workshop will provide you with timely professional training and practical tools to help and equip youth to effectively cope with and navigate through anxious times and situations. Understand the difference between “normal” anxiety and “debilitating” anxiety Learn tools to address the thoughts, emotions, and physical feelings of anxiety Identify scriptural, spiritual, and social resources to help with anxiety Develop ways to address anxiety within your youth group, church, and community Take away tools to help you—as youth ministers—to care for yourselves in this “Age of Anxiety” Approaching Adult Alliances: Connecting and Working with Youth Parents/Guardians/Grandparents/etc. With Christine Peirce Coleman Learn the psychology of the relational impact between parent/guardian and youth and how this relationship impacts overall youth ministry Learn the roots of resilience in youth and adults Collaborate on best practices for how to work with children’s ministry for the benefit of your teens Engage multiple case studies in how to support youth and adults Develop a working action plan for your ministry, including a self-evaluation plan for youth parents How to Take Creative Risk in Youth Ministry With Victoria Sun Esparza Participants will challenge their understandings of “creativity” and learn to embrace their own creative potential Participants will identify the fears that keep them from creativity and leave with practical tools to address and combat those fears Participants will learn how to brainstorm wild ideas and learn best practices for cultivating creative environments to produce new ideas 2022 SCHEDULES: PSYM 2022 is planned as an “in-person” event only. We will be following Highland Park UMC’s safety protocols for this event, as they are the host venue. PSYM 2022 will be held at Highland Park United Methodist Church in Dallas, TX. We do not have a booking partnership or conference block rate arranged with any hotel for PSYM 2022. FOUNDATIONS SCHEDULE: Monday 1/10/22 3 to 4 p.m. (CST) … Check-in and Coffee Lounge (All Tracks) 4 to 5:30 p.m. (CST) … Foundations Intro 7:30 to 8:45 p.m. (CST) … Opening Worship with Marlon Hall (All Tracks) Tuesday & WEDNESDAY 9 to 10 a.m. (CST) … Foundations Modules 10 to 10:20 a.m. (CST) … Morning Break (All Tracks) 10:20 a.m. to Noon (CST) … Foundations Modules Noon to 1:20 p.m. (CST) … Lunch Break (lunch not provided) 1:20 to 1:50 p.m. (CST) … Worship (All Tracks) 2 to 3 p.m. (CST) … Foundations Modules 3 to 3:20 p.m. (CST) … Afternoon Break (All Tracks) 3:20 to 5 p.m. (CST) … Foundations Modules THursday 1/13/22 9 to 10 a.m. (CST) … Foundations Modules 10 to 10:20 a.m. (CST) … Morning Break (All Tracks) 10:20 a.m. to Noon (CST) … Foundations Modules Noon to 12:30 p.m. (CST) … Closing Worship and Box Lunch (All Tracks) WORKSHOPS SCHEDULE: Monday 1/10/22 3 to 4 p.m. (CST) … Check-in and Coffee Lounge (All Tracks) 7:30 to 8:45 p.m. (CST) … Opening Worship with Marlon Hall (All Tracks) Tuesday 1/11/22 9 to 10 a.m. (CST) … “Finding Forward: Story, Values, Impact”- Opening Session with Lia McIntosh 10 to 10:20 a.m. (CST) … Morning Break (All Tracks) 10:20 a.m. to Noon (CST) … Opening Session with Lia McIntosh (cont.) Noon to 1:20 p.m. (CST) … Lunch Break (lunch not provided) 1:20 to 1:50 p.m. (CST) … Worship (All Tracks) 2 to 3 p.m. (CST) … Workshop A 3 to 3:20 p.m. (CST) … Afternoon Break (All Tracks) 3:20 to 5 p.m. (CST) … Workshop A WEDNESDAY 1/12/22 9 to 10 a.m. (CST) … Workshop B 10 to 10:20 a.m. (CST) … Morning Break (All Tracks) 10:20 a.m. to Noon (CST) … Workshop B Noon to 1:20 p.m. (CST) … Lunch Break (lunch not provided) 1:20 to 1:50 p.m. (CST) … Worship (All Tracks) 2 to 3 p.m. (CST) … Workshop A 3 to 3:20 p.m. (CST) … Afternoon Break (All Tracks) 3:20 to 5 p.m. (CST) … Workshop A THursday 1/13/22 9 to 10 a.m. (CST) … Workshop B 10 to 10:20 a.m. (CST) … Morning Break (All Tracks) 10:20 a.m. to Noon (CST) … Workshop B Noon to 12:30 p.m. (CST) … Closing Worship and Box Lunch (All Tracks) Back To Top Powered by Squarespace