Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Campus Recreation Center About Employment Student Employees of the Month Hours Meet Our Staff Mission, Vision, Values & Customer Service Rules & Policies Contact Us Facilities Spring 2022 Operations Sustainability in the CRC Awards & Publications Memberships Memberships Faculty & Staff Benefits Aquatics Hours Swim Lessons Lifeguard Certification Pool Parties SCUBA Programs Sports & Fitness Intramural Sports Sport Clubs Fitness Classes Personal Training Facilities & Equipment Indoor Climbing Wall Sport Simulator Virtual Fitness Move Georgia Tech Tyler Brown Pi Mile Outdoor Rec Adventure Trips Tech Treks Online Outdoor Gear Rental Get Involved CORE Leadership Program Additional Services Special Trips Tech Wreck Summer Camps Leadership Challenge Course Massage Therapy Rentals & Reservations Advertise With Us My CRC Give Now Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Sports & Fitness Intramural Sports Intramurals provide students, faculty, and staff the opportunity for competition and fun in a variety of team and individual sports activities. Divisions are available for Men’s, Women’s, and Co-Rec teams in a variety of skill and competition levels. With 20 sports offered each year, leagues, tournaments, and special events provide for participants who desire a competitive atmosphere as well as those who desire a more social, recreational environment. Many of our leagues are structured to account for campus affiliations so that graduate students, fraternity members, housing students, and others can be sure to play with and against their peer groups. Click here to register on IM Leagues Intramural Sports Policies Intramural FAQs Sport Rules To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download. Need Assistance? Competitive Sports Office CRC Room 243 404-894-9984 Email us: gtcompsports@gatech.edu Visit our Contact page 2022 Fall Officials Clinic Get the skills you need to officiate for any of the intramural sports offered at the CRC for the Fall semester. Welcome Back/ Interest Meeting- TBA No preregistration or previous experience necessary. You must be a Georgia Tech student to participate and you must attend all clinic dates. Food will be provided at the Welcome Back/Info Session. Questions? Email Ben Hays at bhays30@gatech.edu Summer 2022 Sports Summer A Sport League Cost/Team Sand Volleyball Independent $30 Summer B Sport League Cost/Team 3v3 Basketball Independent $30 Organizing and Registering an Intramural Team: Participants are to organize their team on their own prior to the start of the season. Some groups (i.e. fraternities/sororities, hall councils, academic departments) may have individuals who will assist with this endeavor. On the first day of registration, the team captain will be permitted to log in and sign up to choose the sport(s) and the respective league, as well as the specific day and time that fits their schedule. Payment Deadline and Wait List: All available spots for each sport will be open for team captains on a first come, first serve basis. When sports/leagues have met their respective capacity, the online waitlist will be available. If a spot is open after the payment deadline, the Competitive Sports office will contact the waitlist teams, in chronological order. Teams are not secured until payment is made online. If you are not able to use the online module for payment, please contact the Competitive Sports office to make arrangements. Intramural Champions Congratulations to all fall and spring intramural champions. Find a full list of the champions here. Champions Intramural Photos You can view all photos from throughout the intramural season here and previous years here! Photos Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Campus Services Departments Auxiliary Services Bookstore - Barnes and Noble @ Georgia Tech BuzzCard Center Campus Recreation Center Campus Services Dining Services Health Initiatives Health Services Health and Well-Being Housing Information Technology Group Parking & Transportation Services Student Center Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login