Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Safety Services » Background Checks / Finger Prints Set Navigation title in component Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Background Checks / Finger Prints Rolled ink fingerprinting is suspended until further notice. UC Public Safety provides background checks and fingerprinting services for licensing and other needs, for both members of the University community as well as the general public. We use an electronic system called “WebCheck" which electronically scans an applicant’s fingerprints and sends them to the Ohio Bureau of Identification for a check of the applicant’s state record. The prints can also be forwarded to the FBI, if necessary, for a national background check. Background check results can take up to 40 business days to come back. The Webcheck Service is available 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. Please note our office does not offer LiveScan at this time. An appointment will be required for background check services. These appointments will be scheduled in 10 minute increments. Please use the form below to schedule an appointment. We will attempt same-day appointments if there are openings, but individuals needing background checks are strongly encouraged to contact us at least one day in advance. Individuals must complete the background check authorization form before entering the office. Billing paperwork must also be provided if an individual's background check is being paid for by an organization.. If any of the required paperwork for background check services is missing, the customer will be asked to leave and make a new appointment when the customer is able to provide all required paperwork. The preferred forms of payment are departmental/external agency billing forms, credit card or cash. Schedule a Background Check Cost: State Background Check (Ohio Bureau of Investigation) - $32 National Background Check (FBI) - $35 Fingerprinting - $10 (per card) Contact: Criminal History Check Office 513-556-4925 Location: 4 Edwards Center 51 West Corry Blvd Cincinnati, Ohio 45221-0215 Forms: Forms must be printed, filled out and brought with you when you come for services. Authorization Form for Fingerprinting Services (PDF) University Department Billing Form (PDF) External Billing Form (PDF) Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top