Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Athletics Achieve. Serve. Lead. Princeton student-athletes excel in the classroom while leading in intercollegiate competition. Options abound for students to play like a Tiger whether it be through a varsity team, club or intramural program. Varsity Teams Princeton has one of the largest and most successful athletic programs in the NCAA Division I and the Ivy League. About 18 percent of undergraduates participate in varsity sports, spanning 37 varsity men's and women's teams. Learn More Princeton women's Varsity Four rowers win national title Read more Women's LAX community at Princeton turns out for 'Chris Sailer Day' tribute Read more Marcoux Samaan to step down as athletic director, join LPGA as commissioner Read more Play video: Play Video: Reading with the Tigers Princeton Varsity Club Princeton Varsity Club offers programing, events and funding to create enriching experiences inside and outside the classroom for more than 1,000 student-athletes. Learn More Facts & Figures 37 Varsity intercollegiate teams 36 Sport club teams 113 Princetonians who have competed in the Olympics 150 Years of Princeton football 25 Ivy League championships in field hockey Show Me More Facts and Figures Fitness & Recreational Sports For exercise and fun, you can participate in many activities on and around campus. There are 37 sport clubs, ranging from ballroom dancing to ultimate frisbee, and the intramural sports program brings students together for friendly competitions such as the popular annual dodgeball tournament. Dillon Gymnasium is a base for recreational athletics and includes a pool, dance studio and the Stephens Fitness Center, offering individual and group fitness equipment and programs. The campus also has an indoor climbing wall, a running club and many other opportunities to stay fit. Learn More About Athletics & Fitness Additional information about ticketing, recreational activities and more can be found at: Campus Recreation Intramural Sports Outdoor Action Sports Clubs Tickets Events Calendar One Community Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice