Apply for Admission - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are Apply for Admission × Looking to apply to Graduate School? Visit uh.edu/graduate-school. Application Instructions Expand AllCollapse All First-Year Freshman Students You will apply as a first-year freshman if you are a high school senior or if you graduated high school/GED but never attended a college or university. We've Gone Test Optional Applicants have the option to apply for admission with or without a test score for the following academic terms: spring 2022, summer 2022, and fall 2022. Applicants are not disadvantaged by applying without a test score. APPLY ONLINE Complete the University of Houston application for admission using either the ApplyTexas Application or The Common Application. Submit just one application. On your application, you will select whether you want your application to be reviewed with a test score or without a test score. Be sure to complete the short admissions essay and tell us about your extracurricular activities. APPLICATION FEES Pay the nonrefundable $75 application fee ($90 for international students) with a credit card or debit card. Payment can be made in your myUH self-service portal or before submitting the admissions application. First-time freshmen may qualify for an application fee waiver. Simply complete the National Association for College Admissions Counseling Fee Waiver Form and submit a PDF copy through your myUH account. SUBMIT YOUR TRANSCRIPT Pick one of the following options to submit your most recent high school transcript information: • Ask your school administrator to send your official transcript data electronically through an EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) system, e.g. TREx (for Texas institutions) or • Self-report your transcript information. Visit your task list in your my.uh.edu self-service portal to self-report your transcript information. You'll only report your math, science, English, and social studies classes. View our self-reporting guide or watch our video tutorial for step-by-step instructions . SUBMIT TEST SCORES If you are applying for admissions with a test score, have your ACT or SAT score(s) sent directly from the testing agency to us. Our code for ACT is 4236; SAT is 6870. If you are applying for admissions without a test score, skip this step. Deadlines Summer 2022 Application Deadline: May 2, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: May 9, 2022 Fall 2022 Application Deadline: May 31, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: June 10, 2022 Fall 2022 Scholarship Priority Deadlines Application Deadline: November 1, 2021 Supporting Information* Due: November 15, 2021 *Supporting information includes application fee, self-reporting transcript information, test scores (if applicable). If applying without test scores, supporting information also includes your essay and resume. You can request to change to admissions without a test score by submitting this form. Transfer Students You will apply as a transfer if you have graduated high school and earned, or will earn, 15 or more credit hours. Complete the University of Houston application for admission using either the ApplyTexas Application or The Common Application. Submit just one application. Pay the nonrefundable $75 application fee ($90 for international students) with a credit card or debit card. Payment can be made in your myUH self-service portal or before submitting the admissions application. If you will have fewer than 15 semester hours (30 for business majors) at the time of applying, have your high school transcript and ACT or SAT score(s) sent to the University of Houston, Office of Undergraduate Admissions, 4434 University Drive, Houston, TX 77004. Our code for ACT is 4236; SAT is 6870. Submit official college transcripts from all colleges or universities attended. Ask your college or university registrar to send your transcript data electronically through an EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) system, e.g. Speede. You may also upload a PDF copy of your transcript to your myUH self-service portal using the following steps: 1. Log in to your myUH account 2. Select the "Student Center" tile 3. Locate your "To Do" list on the top right side of the page 4. Select "Details/Upload Document" 5. Select the "Upload/View Document" link for "Official Transcript" 6. Select the "Upload File" button and select your High School Transcript (must be in PDF format) and navigate through the prompts Deadlines Summer 2022 Application Deadline: May 2, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: May 9, 2022 Fall 2022 Application Deadline: June 30, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: July 8, 2022 *Supporting information includes application fee and official transcript(s) from all attended institution(s). International Students You will apply as an international student if you want to attend the University of Houston with citizenship from a country outside the U.S. Complete the University of Houston application for admission using either the ApplyTexas Application or The Common Application. Submit just one application. Pay the nonrefundable $90 application fee with a credit card or debit card. Payment can be made in your myUH self-service portal or before submitting the admissions application. Have your official test scores sent directly from the testing agency. Our code for ACT is 4236; SAT is 6870; TOEFL is 6870. There is no institutional code for IELTS exams. The testing agency should mail official IELTS score reports to the University of Houston, Office of Undergraduate Admissions, 4434 University Drive, Houston, TX 77204. For International Freshman: Send official* secondary school or high school academic records (transcripts, mark sheets, graduation certificate, etc.). We prefer these to be submitted electronically through your school counselor via email or the Common Application. They can also be sent by mail to 4434 University Drive, Houston, TX 77204. For International Transfer: Submit official* college transcripts from all colleges or universities attended. Ask your college or university registrar to send your transcript data electronically through an EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) system, e.g. Speede. They can also be sent by mail to 4434 University Drive, Houston, TX 77204. *Official transcripts must either state "official", have your institution's seal, a signature by a school official, or official watermark. It is up to the discretion of the Office of Admissions to determine the validity of the transcript and the office reserves the right to request additional or different copies if needed. Submit a copy of your passport ID page(s). F-1s in the U.S. are required to submit a copy of page 1 and 2 of the SEVIS I-20 and a copy of their I-94 record. J-1s in the U.S. are required to submit a copy of page 1 of the DS-2019 and a copy of their I-94 record. Submit financial documents. Acceptable financial documents include: statement from the bank signed by agent or bank stamp/seal; letter written from back with the amount clearly indicated in U.S. dollars; checking, savings, or certificate of deposit statements; scholarship letters; or letters showing government funding. Learn more: International Freshman | International Transfer Deadlines Summer 2022 Application Deadline: April 1, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: April 8, 2022 Fall 2022 Application Deadline: May 31, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: June 10, 2022 *Supporting information includes application fee and official transcript(s) from all attended institution(s). Post-Baccalaureate Students Post-baccalaureate applicants are those who have completed the equivalent of a bachelor's degree prior to enrolling in UH. Post-baccalaureate students can take undergraduate courses, pursue a second degree, or meet the prerequisites needed for the graduate majors. Complete the University of Houston post-baccalaureate application for admission using the ApplyTexas Application. Pay the nonrefundable $75 application fee ($90 for international students) with a credit card or debit card. Payment can be made in your myUH self-service portal or before submitting the admissions application. Have your most recent colleges or university transcript sent to the University of Houston. Ask your college or university registrar to send your transcript data electronically through an EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) system, e.g. Speede. Deadline s Summer 2022 Application Deadline: April 1, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: April 8, 2022 Fall 2022 Application Deadline: May 31, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: June 10, 2022 *Supporting information includes application fee and official transcript(s) from all attended institution(s). Transient / Visiting Students A Visiting Student (sometimes referred to as a Transient Student) can take undergraduate courses at the University of Houston, but is not seeking a degree. Complete the University of Houston transient application for admission using the ApplyTexas Application. Pay the nonrefundable $75 application fee ($90 for international students) with a credit card or debit card. Payment can be made in your myUH self-service portal or before submitting the admissions application. Have your most recent colleges or university transcript sent to the University of Houston. Ask your college or university registrar to send your transcript data electronically through an EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) system, e.g. Speede. Deadline s Summer 2022 Application Deadline: May 27, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: May 27, 2022 Fall 2022 Application Deadline: August 12, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: August 12, 2022 *Supporting information includes application fee and official transcript(s) from all attended institution(s). Admissions Brochures Read more about admission requirements, majors, and tuition in our admissions brochures. Freshman Students Transfer Students International Freshman Students International Transfer Students Check Application Status You can check your application status online after you have submitted your application. Apply for Readmission If you previously attended The University of Houston, you may apply for readmission using our step-by-step guide. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies