Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » Prospective Students » Current UC Students » application Set Navigation title in component High School Students Current UC Students Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing University Honors Application Thank you for your interest in joining the University Honors Program! We suggest that you review our website or attend an interest session before completing the application. For many students, it is particularly useful to write and edit the responses to the essay questions in a separate document over the course of at least a few days, because the application cannot be saved. You will need to complete this application in one sitting. Eligibility: Baccalaureate-seeking student at UC Graduating Spring 2023 or later 3.2+ Overall GPA after Fall 2021 semester Essay Questions Why do you want to join University Honors? What makes University Honors a good fit for you? What will you contribute to the UHP community? (Max 250 words) We offer an individualized advising experience with a commitment to help our students maximize their time as an undergraduate student. Specifically, describe the goals that are most important for you to make strides toward prior to your undergraduate graduation from UC? How do you see University Honors contributing to your undergraduate success? (Max 250 words) Storytelling has shaped societies for thousands of years. It has created shared religions or moral codes, facilitated travel and growth of civilizations, drawn attention to issues and formed public policy. University Honors focuses on storytelling as a form of personal and professional reflection. Tell us a story about one activity or experience you've done and explain how it illuminates an important aspect of who you are and how it applies to your future. (Max 300 words) Nobel Laureate Paul Ehrlich famously pursued an idea that there could be a treatment that could eradicate any disease without harming the body. There was widespread hope that anything could be cured with a single, simple process or antidote. He is credited with many of the earliest forms of medical treatments popular today but realized there would never be a universal cure. Similarly, we can acknowledge that there is incredible complexity in the world's problems and that there will never be a single, simple solution to them. With this in mind, identify a complex problem you are passionate about. Briefly describe any experiences you've had that are related to this passion. Within the next five years, how do you envision yourself making contributions toward solving the problem? (Max 400 words) Application Form- Deadline: November 28 University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top