Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Academics Conservation Energy People News Clemson in Charleston Senior Experience Electrical and Computer Engineering majors, Computer Science majors, and DPA minors: Study with Clemson faculty and graduate students on the same campus that houses one of the world’s largest wind turbine drivetrain test stands the world’s most innovative electrical grid research simulator (eGRID) state-of-the-art Digital Production Arts facility modern classrooms with real-time interaction with students on main campus one or two semester options available Courses are taught in Clemson’s Zucker Family Graduate Education Center, next door to the Dominion Energy Innovation Center and Warren Lasch Conservation Center (home of the Hunley submarine). Course offerings work toward degree completion, many with an “Energy” and “Power Systems” focus from practicing professionals. BS – MS fast track degree program! Earn both degrees in 5 years. Plan ahead and be able to earn graduate credit for senior technical electives or use graduate courses for undergraduate AND graduate credit. Combine this with an internship in Charleston for maximum value-added to your Clemson degrees. Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors - Plan ahead! Tell your advisors that you are interested in the Clemson in Charleston Senior Experience program. They will help you best plan your course selection path. CURI Scholars A limited number of scholarships, valued at up to $2500 per year, are available for students participating in the Clemson in Charleston experience. You will be considered when you apply to the program. The Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) is located in North Charleston, SC along the banks of the Cooper River just 10 minutes from historic downtown Charleston. At CURI, Clemson faculty, engineers and technicians work side-by-side with industry engineering partners. Activities include: wind turbine drivetrain testing, electric grid simulation, smart grid, micro-grid, testing large inverters, PV converters, electrical storage, aerospace power systems, and cyber – physical security. Info Sessions Join us for an upcoming Information Session to learn more about the Senior Experience: April 27 at 2pm in Riggs 100A JOIN VIA ZOOM Request More Info If you are interested in receiving additional information about Senior Year Undergraduate Programs at Clemson in Charleston, fill out our Interest Form. Apply Now If you would like to apply for the Undergraduate Program at Clemson in Charleston, fill out an application form. Graduate Programs Graduate Overview Undergraduate Opportunities The Zucker Center Zucker Help Desk Course Offerings Faculty Resources Student Resources TIGE Agreement Prospective Student Tour Request Success Stories Copyright © Clemson University Clemson in Charleston | 1240 Supply Street | North Charleston, SC 29405 843-730-5113 | Email Us