Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Play video: Play Video: Watch live: Princeton's in-person 2022 Hooding and Recognition Ceremony Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Watch: The Graduate School's Hooding and Recognition Ceremony, Monday, May 23 by the Office of Communications May 23, 2022, 2:29 p.m. Princeton University has been livestreaming end-of-year ceremonies and will continue through Tuesday, May 24. Events can be viewed on YouTube, Facebook and the MediaCentral website. Videos for upcoming events start to stream shortly before the event begins. Wednesday, May 18, at 10 a.m. Class of 2020 Commencement ceremony. Sunday, May 22, at 2 p.m. Class of 2022 Baccalaureate service. Monday, May 23, at 10:30 a.m. Class of 2022 Class Day ceremony. Monday, May 23, at 4:30 p.m. Hooding ceremony for master’s and doctoral students earning their degree during the 2021-22 academic year. Tuesday, May 24, at 10 a.m. Princeton’s 275th Commencement ceremony for seniors in the Class of 2022 and for students earning master’s and doctoral degrees. For more information, visit the Commencement website. Related Stories Watch: Princeton's Class of 2022 Commencement ceremony Tuesday, May 24 Read more Commencement events for Class of 2022 and on-campus Commencement details for Class of 2020 Read more ‘The value of persistence’: Princeton Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement Read more Princeton University Commencement to be held May 31 Read more At Hooding, a ritual celebration of extraordinary scholarly accomplishment Read more Princeton University Commencement to be held June 5 Read more Princeton University Commencement to be held June 2 Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice