Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Events Three Minute Thesis Three Minute Thesis Fall 2021 Competition Congratulations to the winners of SMU's Fall 2021 Three Minute Thesis Competition: First Place: Megan Brown, Anthropology Ph.D. Program: “Reforestation, Resilience, and Health in Costa Rica” Runner Up (Tie): Jamie Nguyen, Psychology Ph.D. Program: “College Women’s Sexual Orientation, Sexual Victimization, and Endorsement of Hookup Culture” Runner Up (Tie): Sian Xiao, Theoretical and Computational Chemistry Ph.D. Program: “Prediction of Protein Allosteric Sites” People's Choice: Ishna Satyarth, Computer Science Ph.D. Program: “Application of Machine Learning in Reduced-Scaling Quantum Chemistry” The Fall 2021 Three Minute Thesis Competition took place on Nov. 9 and 12. View the program for the finals: Finals Program Overview The Three Minute Thesis (3MT) Competition celebrates the exciting research conducted by graduate students. Developed by the University of Queensland and utilized at universities all over the world, 3MT cultivates students' academic, presentation, and research communication skills. The competition supports their capacity to effectively explain their research in three minutes, in a language appropriate to a non-specialist audience. Eligibility Currently enrolled master's and doctoral students in all disciplines will be eligible to participate in 3MT. Work must have been conducted at SMU. Note: Students who competed in previous SMU 3MT competitions are eligible to participate again if they did not win a prize. Prizes First Place: $800 Second Place: $400 People's Choice: $400 Rules A single, static PowerPoint slide is permitted. No slide transitions, animations, or movement of any description are allowed. The slide is to be presented from the beginning of the oration. No additional electronic media (e.g., sound and video files) is permitted. No additional props (e.g., costumes, musical instruments, laboratory equipment) are permitted. Presentations are limited to three minutes maximum and competitors exceeding three minutes are disqualified. Presentations are to be spoken word (e.g., no poems, raps, or songs). Presentations are to commence from the stage. Presentations are considered to have commenced when a presenter starts their presentation through either movement or speech. The decision of the judging panel is final. Judging Criteria Each competitor will be assessed on the judging criteria listed below. Each criterion is equally weighted and has an emphasis on audience. Comprehension and Content Did the presentation provide an understanding of the background and significance to the research question being addressed, while explaining terminology and avoiding jargon? Did the presentation clearly describe the impact and/or results of the research, including conclusions and outcomes? Did the presentation follow a clear and logical sequence? Was the thesis topic, research significance, results/impact and outcomes communicated in language appropriate to a non-specialist audience? Did the presenter spend adequate time on each element of their presentation - or did they elaborate for too long on one aspect or was the presentation rushed? Engagement and Communication Did the oration make the audience want to know more? Was the presenter careful not to trivialize or generalize their research? Did the presenter convey enthusiasm for their research? Did the presenter capture and maintain their audience's attention? Did the speaker have sufficient stage presence, eye contact, and vocal range; maintain a steady pace, and have a confident stance? Did the PowerPoint slide enhance the presentation - was it clear, legible, and concise? Previous Competitions Fall 2020 First Place: Andres Roque, Clinical Psychology Second Place: Lacin Yapindi, Molecular and Cellular Biology People's Choice (tie): Dawn Crawford, Anthropology; Mayar Mohamed, Chemistry The competition took place from 12-1pm on Thursday, Nov. 19 over Zoom. The program for the finals is available here. Fall 2019 Winner: Alison Krauss, Psychology (video) Runner Up (tie): Shuang Jiang, Statistical Science (video), and Elie Salameh, Mechanical Engineering (video) People's Choice: Faris Altamimi, Civil and Environmental Engineering (video) Spring 2019 Winner and People's Choice: Niraj Verma, Chemistry (video) Runner Up: Tetiana Hutchison, Biology (video) Second Runner Up: Francesco Trozzi, Chemistry (video) Spring 2018 Winner: Aditi Malu, Biology Runner Up: Benjamin Williams, Statistical Science People's Choice (tie): Yulan Bai, EMIS, and Aditi Malu, Biology Photos from the 2018 3MT Competition Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share