Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Bursar Bursar right arrow down arrow Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Tuition Guarantee Policy Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance How Fees Are Determined Prior Year Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Academic Year 2021-2022 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2020-2021 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2019-2020 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Paying your Bill right arrow down arrow Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Refunds right arrow down arrow Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals right arrow down arrow Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Past Due Accounts right arrow down arrow Collections Payment Plans Collections Timeline Loans right arrow down arrow Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Tax Forms & Disclosures right arrow down arrow Form 1098-T right arrow down arrow Detailed Explantion of the 1098-T Form 1098-T FAQs Form 1042-S Banking Contract Disclosure Contact Us right arrow down arrow The Team Bursar Contact Form Home » About UC » Office of the Bursar » Tax Forms & Disclosures » Form 1098-T » FAQs Set Navigation title in component Form 1098-T Detailed Explantion of the 1098-T Form 1098-T FAQs Form 1042-S Banking Contract Disclosure Form 1098-T FAQs Can my parent/guardian access my Form 1098-T? right arrow down arrow Yes, but only after the student has authorized their parent/guardian to “view 1098-T” through Delegated Access. To make that authorization, students should follow the instructions for Delegated Access on our Delegated Access page. Once logged into Catalyst click the “delegated access” tile on the parent homepage. Then select “Financial” on the left side of the page followed by “View 1098-T.” Instructions from my education savings account say that room and board are qualified expenses, why isn’t the full amount of my payment reported? right arrow down arrow The requirements of state-sponsored section 529 accounts allow for money to be withdrawn, without negative tax implications on the withdrawal, to pay for education expenses including room and board. Those expenses are “qualified” for purposes of withdrawals from a section 529 account. However, room and board expenses are still “non-qualified” for purposes of computing an American Opportunity Credit, Lifetime Learning Credit, or tuition and fees deduction on your tax return. I am not a US Citizen. What does 1098-T mean to me? right arrow down arrow The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) does not require UC to file a Form 1098-T for international students who are not US residents for tax purposes. This is because non-resident alien students are not eligible for education tax benefits. However, UC cannot definitively determine which international students are residents for tax purposes. Also, the IRS does require UC to provide a 1098-T to a non-resident alien student who requests one. For these reasons we provide 1098-T forms to all students, including international students who may or may not be eligible for an education tax benefit. UC International can assist: International Student and Scholar Taxes Why didn’t I receive my 1098-T? right arrow down arrow If you did not receive an IRS Form 1098-T for the current calendar year, possible explanations are: UC did not have a valid social security number on file for you. Click the "profile" tile on your student homepage in Catalyst to verify your social security number. UC did not identify any information to report. This would include having zero amounts for payments received for qualified tuition and related expenses, scholarship awards, adjustments to scholarship awards and adjustments for a prior year. You gave UC permission to send your 1098-T Form electronically and/or UC did not have a current mailing address for you. You can view your current or prior 1098-T forms online at any time by following the instructions listed at Form 1098-T What resources does the IRS make available for the 1098-T? right arrow down arrow Be sure you are looking at the correct tax year form/publication; the IRS updates forms as the tax season nears. Free Tax Retrun Preperation for Qualifying Taxpayers IRS Publication & Forms Form 8863 Instructions for Education Credits Form 1040 Instructions IRS Information on American Opportunity Credit IRS Information at Lifetime Learning Credit HEERF and CARES Act Specific Questions Will the money i received under the CARES Act be reflected on the 1098-T? right arrow down arrow No. Per guidance from the IRS, CARES Act funds issued to students will not be reflected on the 1098-T. Will the money I received under the HEERF be reflected on the 1098-T? right arrow down arrow If you elected to have HEERF funding apply toward qualified tuition and related expenses (QTRE), HEERF will be reflected only in Box 1 as a payment received toward QTRE. You would have made this election while completing the Federal Emergency Relief Authorization in Catalyst. There will be no reflection of HEERF in Box 5 as a scholarship or grant. Otherwise, if you did not elect to have HEERF funding apply toward qualified tuition and related expenses, there will be no reflection of HEERF on the 1098-T, in Box 1 payments received toward QTRE nor will it be reflected in Box 5 as a scholarship or grant. Please visit the IRS website for additional information about federal higher education emergency grant funding. Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top