HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Wellness When to See a Provider CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Get Involved Creative Inquiry Teams Aspire Aspire Creative Inquiry students research and learn about multiple aspects of health and well-being as they relate to the college population. Potential focus areas include alcohol and drug abuse prevention, mental health and wellness, bystander intervention, stress, and other topics pertaining to health. This group of students is visible on campus and in the community during the school semester. Aspire Creative Inquiry students must be an Aspire to Be Well Program Facilitator. For more information about the Aspire Creative Inquiry team, please contact Chloe Greene at cgreen6@clemson.edu. Assessment in College Student Health Creative Inquiry Team This research team is focused on assessing and evaluating college student health. The primary focus is the analysis of the National College Health Assessment with both Clemson-specific and national data. Students have the opportunity to learn key data analysis skills while exploring various topics that impact college student health. Students also work on the projects to reduce high-risk activities, promote positive health practices and foster a healthy campus environment at Clemson University. For more information, visit the Creative Inquiry Find a Project webpage or contact Jennifer Goree: goree@clemson.edu Exploration of College Student Emotional, Physical and Mental Well-being Creative Inquiry This creative inquiry team was developed to inspire research centered on college student well-being. This class is rooted in dialogue about campus climate and the college experiences, which leads to the development of research projects. Students have the chance to conceptualize research topics, create methodologies, collect and analyze data, and present findings. This student-lead course creates pathways for student voices to be heard and to inform the work of professionals at Clemson University. For more information, visit the Creative Inquiry Find a Project webpage or contact Jennifer Goree: goree@clemson.edu Internships Healthy Campus offers fall, spring and summer internship opportunities through the University Professional Internship/Co-op Program (UPIC) and the Clemson University Commission on Sustainability. Other Ways to Get Involved Out of the Darkness Walk The Out of the Darkness Walk is an annual event sponsored by the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention (AFSP) to help engage communities in the fight to prevent suicide. Through the annual Out of the Darkness Walk, AFSP raises funds to continue providing research grants and aid programs on suicide prevention efforts in schools and communities. Please reach out to Delana Reynolds (delanar@clemson.edu) if you have any questions about the annual Out of the Darkness Walk. Peer Body Project The Body Project is a cognitive-dissonance-based body acceptance intervention that was designed to help adolescent girls and young women resist sociocultural pressures to conform to the thin-ideal and reduce their pursuit of thinness. There are four 1-hour sessions conducted over consecutive weeks. In addition, participants are asked to complete brief between-session homework assignments. All sessions are led by peer facilitators and are only open to women. If you are interested in participating in The Body Project, please contact Delana Reynolds (delanar@clemson.edu). Koru Mindfulness Developed at Duke University, Koru Mindfulness is an evidence-based program specifically designed for teaching mindfulness and meditation as a way to manage stress and reduce anxiety. You will learn specific skills that help calm and focus your mind, including breathing exercises, guided imagery, body scan and more. This course is open to students and employees. Visit the Koru Mindfulness webpage to register. Clemson Community Coalition Sustainability Minor CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster