Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Academics As a nationally ranked research university with a liberal arts tradition, SMU is ready to support you as you pursue your passion. If you’re an ambitious, creative thinker, SMU is for you. Also in Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Honors and Scholars Tips FAQs | Academics Get the Facts SMU is within the Top 20% of the 'Best National Universities' according to the 2020 edition of the U.S. News & World Report's Best Colleges. #2 Dallas ranks among the best places for business and careers in Forbes, 2019. 84% Percentage of full-time faculty who hold a doctorate or the highest degree in their fields. 100+ Number of majors students can choose from. 11:1 The average class size is 22 students, and SMU has an 11:1 student-to-faculty ratio. 85 Number of minors students can choose from. 5 Number of nationally recognized undergraduate schools and colleges. Engaged Learning Connecting students' personal passions to creative academic projects, research, and initiatives that move learning beyond the classroom. Turn your great ideas into reality and take action on some of the world's most pressing challenges. SMU Entrepreneurship Club Connecting entrepreneurial students across campus regardless of their major or school. Find help transforming your innovative idea into a sustainable enterprise and get support for your student startup. Deason Innovation Gym Inspiring creative confidence in a campus community of makers. Build your design skills by working on real-world challenges and engage in purpose-driven learning through interdisciplinary teamwork. SMU DataArts is SMU’s investment in big data and research with impact to help arts and cultural leaders nationwide make smarter decisions with data insights. Ophelie Herve and other students worked with a robotic exoskeleton to adapt technology to the natural rhythm of walking. SMU’s intellectual environment attracts problem-solvers, creators and disruptors who are ready to transform their big ideas into tangible results. Video Big on Research Roxana Farokhnia talks about her experience at SMU as a Biology and Health and Society double major on the Pre-Health track. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search