Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Applied Mathematics Ph.D. school Graduate School division Applied Math Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The graduate program provides training and research activities in a broad spectrum of applied mathematics. The breadth is one of the great strengths of the program and is further reflected in the courses we offer. The Division of Applied Mathematics is devoted to research, education and scholarship. Our faculty engages in research in a range of areas from applied and algorithmic problems to the study of fundamental mathematical questions. By its nature, our work is and always has been inter– and multidisciplinary. Among the research areas represented in the division are dynamical systems and partial differential equations, control theory, probability and stochastic processes, numerical analysis and scientific computing, fluid mechanics, computational biology, statistics, and pattern theory. Our graduate program in applied mathematics includes around 50 Ph.D. students, with many of them working on interdisciplinary projects. Joint research projects exist with faculty in various biology and life sciences departments and the departments of Chemistry, Computer Science, Cognitive and Linguistic Sciences, Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences, Engineering, Mathematics, Physics and Neuroscience, as well as with faculty in the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not Required GRE General: Not Required Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 10, 2021 Completion Requirements Eight courses, of which at least six must be at the 2000 level, at least six must be applied mathematics courses, and at least six must be completed with a grade of B or better; preliminary oral examination; two semesters of teaching; dissertation and oral defense. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Bjorn Sandstede bjorn_sandstede@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Chi-Wang Shu chi-wang_shu@brown.edu Contact and Location Division of Applied Mathematics Mailing Address Brown University Box F applied-mathematics@brown.edu 401-863-2353 Visit the Department of Applied Mathematics Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Applied Mathematics Open details for Applied Mathematics Bookmark this Page