Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Pronoun Use and Gender Identity You are here Home Life at Temple Diversity & Inclusivity Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Contents Pronoun Use at Temple UniversityGender Identity at Temple UniversityUse in Administrative SystemsFrequently Asked QuestionsUniversity Resources Pronoun Use at Temple University To foster diversity and create a sense of belonging for the Temple community, the university recognizes the importance of providing students, faculty, staff and alumni the option to indicate their pronouns in university systems. Pronouns enable community members to be reflected appropriately in university systems and help to ensure they are referred to appropriately by peers, instructors and administrators. Beginning in the fall 2021 term, students, faculty, staff and alumni can update their pronouns in the Manage My Account section of TUportal. This function will allow students, faculty, staff and alumni to display pronouns in designated systems (see ‘Use in Administrative Systems’ section below for details). Gender Identity at Temple University Gender identity is defined as an individual's sense of self. The university recognizes that the gender of individuals may differ from their sex assigned at birth, and this can be indicated throughout university systems where appropriate. Beginning in the fall 2021 term, members of the Temple community can update their gender identity with the university in the Manage My Account section of TUportal. Use in Administrative Systems Pronoun Information Pronouns will be visible to everyone in the following university systems. Cherry and White Directory My Courses application in TUportal Canvas learning management software Internal University Housing and Residential Life systems This list indicates areas where pronouns will be automatically populated from data entered into TUportal. To further an environment of inclusivity and respect surrounding pronoun use, individuals are encouraged to incorporate their pronouns in the following ways. Zoom: It is common practice for individuals to include their pronouns next to their name in Zoom. To do this, click the three dots in the top right-hand corner of your Zoom square, click “rename” and add your pronouns in parentheses after your name [for example, Stella Owl (they/them)]. Email signatures: Individuals are welcomed and encouraged to use the below email signature template to incorporate their pronouns into their Temple email signature. Use the example below to update your email signature in Outlook. Stella T. Owl Pronouns: they/them Temple University's Live Mascot Temple University Gender Information Gender information will only be visible to the individuals themselves, as well as certain administrators with access to legal sex information in Self-service Banner and will not be visible in Cherry and White Directory, My Courses, or Canvas. Presently, the university collects legal sex information in order to ensure we can verify your credentials when contacted by external agencies. These records include financial records, human resource records, library records, and educational history records such as transcripts and diplomas. An individual’s legal sex information, as well as gender information, is only visible in Self-service Banner to the individuals themselves and to administrators with query access to biographical information for regulatory reporting purposes, but not to instructors or peers. Frequently Asked Questions Am I required to provide my pronouns? No one is required to enter pronouns in TUportal. If you do not input pronouns via TUportal, no pronouns will appear in the Cherry and White Directory or other university systems. Individuals of all gender identities are welcomed and encouraged to designate their pronouns to promote a culture of inclusivity and to help community members avoid making assumptions about others’ gender identities. Am I required to provide my gender? No one is required to enter gender in TUportal. The university recognizes that a person’s stated gender identity with the university may be ahead of or behind their stated identity in other parts of life and wants to provide a place for them to indicate that in university systems. Can I make changes to my pronouns and/or gender in TUportal? Individuals can make changes to their pronouns and/or gender within the Manage My Account section of TUportal. Be sure to communicate any changes to how you would like to be referred to with Temple community members with whom you interact frequently. Please allow up to 48 hours for new selections to update in university systems. My pronouns and/or gender are not listed in the options provided in TUportal. What should I do? Pronouns and gender category options in TUportal were chosen based on guidance from the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers as well as Temple’s Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL) on commonly used pronouns and gender identity categories. That being said, implementing the use of pronouns and new gender identity categories in university systems will be a process that occurs over time. Presently, individuals whose pronouns or gender are not reflected in the provided options may answer: “these pronouns do not apply to me - please refer to me by my name only” (for pronouns) or “does not apply to me or I prefer not to share” (for gender). The implementation team will continuously assess the need for expanded categories based on demand and technical feasibility. University Resources Human Resources Staff and student workers looking to change their legal sex will need appropriate documentation and should contact Temple University Human Resources. Phone: 215-926-2244 Email: hrpayroll@temple.edu Office of the University Registrar Students looking to change their legal sex will need appropriate documentation and should contact the Office of the University Registrar. Phone: 215-204-1131 For information on how to contact the office, visit their Contact Us page. Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL) Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership offers support, resources and educational opportunities related to gender identity and expression, including information on gender-inclusive housing, gender-inclusive restrooms, LGBTQIA+ campus organizations and trans health resources. Phone: 215-204-7303 Email: ideal@temple.edu Center for the Advancement of Teaching Instructors looking for support on using pronouns and creating a gender-inclusive classroom environment should contact the Center for the Advancement of Teaching. Phone: 215-204-8761 Email: cat@temple.edu Title IX/EOC Individuals wishing to file a complaint of discrimination based on sex, gender identity or another protected status should contact the Office of Equal Opportunity Compliance. Phone: 215-204-3283 Email: titleix@temple.edu Alumni Relations For Temple alumni who wish to update their pronouns in the directory, contact Temple University Alumni Relations. Phone: 215-204-7521 Email: alumrel@temple.edu Contact Us If you have more questions related to pronoun and gender procedures at the university, please contact pronouns@temple.edu. Go back to Life at TempleMore in Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.