Skip to main content Alert The University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg returns to in-person instruction for the Spring 2022 semester. The campus remains closed to the public. Learn how Pitt-Greensburg is building a healthy and resilient community. Contact Us Directory Employment Calendars Give Now Find People University of Pittsburgh | Greensburg Contact Us Directory Employment Calendars Give Now Find People Use this for to search the site. Search Search this site Search University of Pittsburgh Greensburg Toggle navigation About About Pitt-Greensburg Office of the President Advisory Board Messages from President Gregerson Presidential Ambassadors Giving Life Sciences Building Construction Technology for the Future Challenge Blue and Gold Celebration Multimedia Publications Social Media Contact Us Admissions About Admissions Apply Visit Financial Aid Affordability Applying for Financial Aid Contact Financial Aid External Scholarship Opportunities New Student Resources Returning Student Resources Scholarship Opportunities Types of Financial Aid Request Info Prospective Students Admitted Students - Commit to Pitt First-Year Students Part-Time Transfer Five Campuses...ONE University Deposited Students - Next Steps Deposited Student Checklist - International Deposited Student Checklist - Transfer Deposited Student Checklist Academics About Academics Majors & Minors General Degree Requirements Class Schedules Academic Village Village Video Archive Academic Village 20th Anniversary (1999-2019) Honors Program Nancy Florez-Estrada Mentoring Award Honors Program Global Experiences Steps to a Global Experience Global Experiences Announcements/Events Financing Study Abroad Emergency Abroad Study Abroad Advising Study Abroad Alumni Commencement Class of 2021 Commencement Student Life About Student Life Housing Food Delivery During COVID-19 Commuter Students Commuter Mentor Application Getting Involved Esports Program For Clubs Volunteering Dining Services Health Services Community Health Update: Coronavirus Guidelines for Responding to COVID-19 Symptomatic Individuals Counseling Services Counseling Services Remote Resources Police and Safety Map of Campus Automated External Defibrillators (AED) Parking Permit Information Personal Safety Resources About Student Resources Academic Advising Campus Store Career Services Are You Career Ready? Contact Us Employers Events Internships Parents Remote Resources during COVID-19 Students & Alumni Where Our Grads Are Now Disability Resources Learning Resources Millstein Library Children's Literature Conference Registrar Athletics Alumni About Alumni Awards Young Alumni Leadership Award Alumnus of Distinction Award Legacy Laureate Outstanding Faculty Award Student Community Service Award Volunteer Excellence Award e-Newsletter Pawprints Pitt Commons Spotlight Student Alumni Association Update My Information The Power of One Experience What is unique about you? Explore your interests within our small campus community, and leave a lasting impact for future students! Visit OptionsApply Now Life Sciences Building Construction Pitt-Greensburg is constructing a new Life Sciences building! Get the latest construction updates and watch real-time progress on the building. Construction Progress The Power of One University Collaborate closely with our caring, dedicated faculty. The connections you make by the time you graduate will last a lifetime. Visit OptionsApply Now The Power of One Team On and off the court, onstage in campus theatre productions or making a difference through community service, there is no limit to how you can express yourself as a Pitt-Greensburg Bobcat. Visit OptionsApply Now COVID-19 Pandemic: Pitt's Response Messages from President GregersonOngoing Updates Welcome to the University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg, where thinkers and doers meet to better themselves and the world around them. The Pitt-Greensburg experience combines the resources and reputation of the University of Pittsburgh with the close-community feel of a small private college. This is Pitt to the Power of One. Pitt Fits Learn How Virtual Tour Experience Our Campus Community Life at Pitt-Greensburg News View All News Kellie and Lindsay Beach: A tale of three commencements Scenes from “Almost, Maine” to be performed at Pitt-Greensburg; Senior capstone production is senior’s directorial debut Pitt-Greensburg Celebrates the Power of Stories with Storytellers’ Week April 18-22 The Pitt-Greensburg Theatre Company presents The Great American Trailer Park Musical Outdoor-multimedia art exhibit "Black Lives in Focus" to be displayed at Pitt-Greensburg View All News Events View All Events Explore Pitt-Greensburg Nursing Our Nursing program is accredited through the Pitt School of Nursing - consistently ranked among the top-10 nursing programs in the country. Veterans Services From continued education to transitional services, Pitt-Greensburg supports our military and veterans. Multimedia Delve into life at Pitt-Greensburg with Blue & Gold Magazine, Social Media, E-Connection, and more! Alumni You're still a Bobcat after you graduate; discover how our alumni base of over 10,000 stays involved with campus and current students. Music Series From Chorale and Chamber Singers, to the Distinct Voices Acapella group, to the Joan Chambers Concert Series - there are countless opportunities on campus for students to create and enjoy music! Support Us Our campus community is grateful for the support of our friends and alumni - learn more about supporting a campus fund that's important to you! Careers Join our team of educators and support staff who are dedicated to student success. Careers at Pitt-Greensburg » Faculty/Staff Meet our award-winning faculty and staff - and feel free to reach out to them with any questions you may have! CFAR Students, faculty, and staff involved with our Center for Applied Research combine their talents and expertise to assist community organizations. Follow Us on Social Media! 150 Finoli Drive Greensburg, PA 15601-5860 724-837-7040 Contact Us Visit Directory Employment Calendars Resources Class Schedules Financial Aid Canceled Classes Diversity & Inclusion Music Series my.pitt.edu Courseweb Find People Information For Prospective Students Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Community Revised 05/31/22Copyright 2022