Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Theatre & Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Purchase Tickets Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Application and Audition Process BFA PerformanceBFA Musical TheatreBFA Design and Technical ProductionBFA DanceDance ScienceAll MFA Graduate Studies Take Action 2022-2023 Season Prospective Students Watch Me – Theatre Video UofM Ranked Among Top Dance Programs in the Nation Follow Us On Social Media InstagramFacebook Home Theatre & Dance Admissions Department of Theatre and Dance Admissions Application and Audition Process Admission to the BFA in theatre at the University of Memphis is a two step process. Students should apply first to the University of Memphis and then separately to the Department of Theatre & Dance. Current Memphis students wishing to transfer into, or add the BFA program need only complete the departmental application. Current BFA students wishing to change their program/concentration need only complete the departmental application. Acceptance to any of our programs is contingent upon successful acceptance to the University of Memphis. When applying to the department students should choose between four areas of study: All Prospective Students Follow This Link to Join Our Mailing List Performance (acting) Design and Technical Production Musical Theatre Dance * Graduate admission information can be found Here All programs require an entrance audition and/or interview. Students are automatically considered for all scholarship opportunities as part of their application and audition/interview provided they complete the in-person or recorded audition/interview by the last scholarship date (March 219, 2022 for students beginning Fall 2022). The 2022 on-campus audition/interview date for admission and full scholarship consideration for the 2022 Fall semester is: Saturday, March 19, 2022* The 2022 on-campus audition/interview date for entrance consideration ONLY for the 2022 Fall semester, no scholarship consideration is: Monday, April 18, 2022 – Not available for Musical Theatre applicants* 2021-2022 Regional auditions/interviews for the 2022 Fall semester are severely interrupted due to the global pandemic. As festivals determine if they are planning to operate virtual auditions we will update this site. At this time we anticipate participation (either in-person or virtually) in the following regional auditions: North Texas Auditions - Greater Dallas Area Booker T. Washington High School Showcase Greater Houston Area Auditions Greater San Antonio Area Auditions South Eastern Theatre Conference (SETC) Tennessee Thespian Festival Tennessee All State Auditions Students wishing to audition at one of these sites should complete the departmental application and indicate their audition preference on the form. They will then need to register separately for the event with the event's organization directly. *Due to the global pandemic we are allowing recorded auditions and virtual interviews for any student who does not wish to travel to campus. Please select the recorded audition/interview as part of the departmental application and we will send you instructions about how to complete your audition/interview approximately 24 hours after we received your application. Auditions/Interviews must be receive/completed no later than March 19, 2022 for scholarship consideration. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.