Office of Teacher Education Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Office of Teacher Education Secondary Navigation Main About About Teachers College Standards Contact Us Office Hours Students Students Fingerprinting Student Teaching Certification Exams Liberal Arts Certification Requirements Certification Workshops International Students Cooperating Teachers Supervisors Teacher Education at TC Events FAQs TC Office of Teacher Education Through a collaborative, team-oriented approach, the Office of Teacher Education aims to provide a high level of support and quality service to faculty, students, alumni and the educational community engaged in programs leading to initial and professional certification. Events More Events Certification Requirements Initial Certification Professional Certification School Building Leader & School District Leader Certification Other School Professionals Teachers College teacher education programs are state approved and Teachers College may recommend students for New York State certification upon successful completion of a degree program. There are several steps required to obtain certification and our office is ready to help you with certification questions or to schedule a meeting with our certification staff. Academic Program Requirements Students in Professional Teacher certification programs are eligible for New York State teacher certification recommendation, upon satisfactory completion of all requirements. There are several steps required to obtain certification and our office is ready to help you with certification questions or to schedule a meeting with our certification staff. Academic Program Requirements Information for School Building Leaders and School District Leaders Academic Program Requirements For students in programs that lead to degrees in: School Counseling School Psychology Academic Program Requirements Programs & Opportunities Peace Corps Fellows Program Since 1985, we have supported the Jaffe Fellows, Returned Peace Corps Volunteers, as they become New York City public school teachers in high-need schools. Learn More Student studying together in the TR@TC program Teaching Residents at Teachers College The TR@TC residency program is a rigorous and intensive full-time teacher preparation program that includes extensive placements in high-needs schools. After graduation, residents pledge to teach in similar local high-need public schools. Learn More Intended Recipients Abby M. O’Neill with O’Neill Fellows Bonnie Chow and Kimberly Iwanski Abby O'Neill Fellowship A $10 million gift from the late Abby M. O’Neill has enabled Teachers College to launch the Abby M. O’Neill Teaching Fellowships – one of the nation’s largest, most prestigious and most competitive private teaching fellowship programs. Learn More Selfie of TOC students Teacher Opportunity Corps II Program The purpose of TOC II is to increase the participation rate of historically underrepresented and economically disadvantaged individuals in teaching careers. Learn More News View As View as grid View as list Contact Us Office of Teacher Education Address: 411 Zankel Building Box: 97 * Phone: 212-678-4057 * Fax: 212-678-3153 * Email: ote@tc.edu Please note that we will be operating remotely during Summer 2022, from May 27th through September 2nd. Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links