Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Romance Languages Menu Main Nav Romance Languages and Literatures Department Romance Languages Contact Back Back Close About Overview News and Notes Contact Giving to Romance Languages and Literatures People Overview Faculty Openings Undergraduate Overview Majors and Minors Course Offerings Language Programs French Curriculum and Courses Language Requirement Major and Minor in French Other Opportunities to Learn French on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ and Useful Links Italian Why Study Italian? Language Requirement Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Italian Study Abroad FAQ Portuguese Why Learn Portuguese? Spanish Where to Start Language Requirement General Guidelines for Placement Get Ready for the Semester Coordinators Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Hispanic Studies Other Opportunities to Learn Spanish on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ Language Placement Language Requirement For Language Instructors Honors Program Undergraduate Honors Theses Current Year - 2002 Honors Theses 1986-2001 Honor Societies Study Abroad Teach Abroad Academic Integrity Graduate Overview Master of Arts Programs Course Offerings Graduate Resources Nguyen Prize for Academic Excellence Nguyen Research Travel Prize Nguyen Fund for Graduate Student Professional Formation Ecole Normale Supérieure Exchange Graduate Funding Our Students Graduate Degree Recipients Previous Degree Recipients Career Paths of Doctoral Graduates Career Paths of Masters Graduates Ph.D. Dissertations Graduate Conference Language Careers Related Links Language Lab home page Language Lab Spanish resources Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Romance Languages and Literatures Home Undergraduate Language Programs Spanish Other Opportunities to Learn Spanish on Campus Spanish Where to Start Coordinators Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Hispanic Studies Other Opportunities to Learn Spanish on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ Other Opportunities to Learn Spanish on Campus Along with our regular courses, the Spanish Language Program provides BC students with other opportunities to make contact with the Spanish language and the rich variety of cultures in the Hispanic world. Café En Español Language Lab During the semester we organize a Spanish round-table (“Café en español”), which meets on a weekly basis. This informal meeting offers a unique opportunity for students to practice and improve their speaking skills with faculty and other students in a relaxed environment. All BC students who speak Spanish, regardless of whether or not they are enrolled in a Spanish Language Program course, are welcome! What our students say about the Café en Español “I love going to Café en Español! It’s refreshing to have a place to go and practice my Spanish, and I’ve met so many new people. Café en Español is the part of the week I look the most forward to.” Courtney Griffin, Class of 2017 “In my experience at BC, Café en Español has been an invaluable tool to improve my Spanish and make amazing friends who share my passion for Spanish. I highly recommend it to anyone. Café is the best!” Robert Harding, Class of 2017 “Café is an amazing opportunity the Spanish Language Program offers every week. My Spanish has improved drastically since attending and I have made great friends!” Maria Slater, Class of 2018 The Language Lab serves as a center that provides for the learning and teaching needs of the many different language departments at Boston College. It boasts an extensive collection of textbooks, films, teaching materials, technological equipment, and multimedia language learning tools. The Laboratory, located in Lyons 313, is run by accommodating staff and is accessible throughout the week. BC Spanish students can individually also take advantage of the many opportunities facilitated by the Language Laboratory which includes a variety of resources for Spanish learners: Spanish language learning titles (including textbooks/workbook-lab manuals/audio and/or video programs) = over 100 titles Documentary or Feature-length Films on DVD or VHS video = approx. 165 titles Spanish music recordings = approx. 150 titles Spanish language reference books (dictionaries, grammar texts) = 17 titles Virtual Dual Immersion Exchange Each academic year approximately 250-300 Spanish students participate in the Virtual Dual Immersion Exchange between Boston College and several Latin American universities, conversing with native speakers from across the Spanish-speaking world. Following the dual-immersion methodology, BC students and their partners—students from a Latin American university—split a normal class period in two, conversing in Spanish for 25-30 minutes and in English for another 25-30 minutes. Students have had the opportunity to speak with students from universities such as Pontificia Universidad Javierana Cali (Colombia), Universidad Católica Andrés Bello (Caracas, Venezuela), Universidad Iberoamericana de León (Mexico), Universidad Iberoamericana Puebla (Mexico), Universidad Iberoamericana Torreón (Mexico) and Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Occidente (ITESO) (Guadalajara, Mexico), among others. What our students say about the Virtual Dual Immersion sessions in the Language Lab “The Virtual Dual Immersion sessions gave me the confidence to use what I learned in class in a practical setting. I had spoken a good amount of Spanish with other students and with my professors in a formal classroom setting, but it was especially affirming for me to experience that I could actually communicate with native speakers, other than my professors. This is one of the clear examples of how the Spanish Language program professors are able to diversify class time and engage their students.” Adela Kodra, Class of 2017 “Skyping with students from Mexico the past two semesters has been a unique opportunity to take the Spanish skills we have learned in the classroom and apply them through conversation. Speaking with students from contrasting cultures was a fun, new experience that has reinforced my interest in Spanish and its culture.” Kate Miklavic, Class of 2018 “I enjoyed participating in the Virtual Dual Immersion sessions because it was really cool to be able to practice using my Spanish conversationally and learn a little bit more about Mexican culture and language at the same time. The girl with whom I talked to taught me a few Spanish expressions that are unique to Mexico like ‘¡qué padre!’ which means ‘that’s cool!’ or ‘how cool’ and ‘no inventes’ which roughly translates to ‘no way!'” Erin Griffin, Class of 2018 Related Links Language Lab home page Language Lab Spanish resources Back To Top Back To Top Romance Languages and Literatures Department Lyons Hall 304 617-552-3820 rll@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to the Department Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College