Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Campus & City Campus & City Georgetown is the best of both worlds – a warm and nurturing campus community in a vibrant world-class capital city. Take advantage of all campus has to offer, then venture outside our gates and find yourself in a global city. Play Youtube Video Thrive on Campus and Beyond In just one day at Georgetown, go from Lauinger Library to the Library of Congress. Dissect Shakespeare in class then catch an early show at the Kennedy Center. Here, you’ll experience the best of both worlds – a campus that feels like home in the middle of a vibrant city. Living in DC 350+ Student Clubs Explore the variety of official student organizations and clubs to join 9 Libraries across the campuses and in Georgetown Qatar 130 DC Partnerships with city agencies, schools and community-based organizations 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Serve in DC Make a difference. We have exciting opportunities for you to connect your classroom experience with helping underserved communities in DC. We’ll connect you with community-based organizations that can benefit from your inspiration and innovation. Service & Action Play Youtube Video Study Spots From quiet areas for deep reflection to study spaces alive with activity and collaboration, you’ll find just the right spot you seek. Put yourself in the middle of a passionate debate with an iced coffee or find your favorite hidden nook. Campus Life Quick Links Intern in the City The Center for Social Justice Wellness and Safety Play Youtube Video We are Georgetown More than 700 Hoyas leave their hearts on the field, court and track. Whether you’re an athlete yourself or supporter from the stands, together we bleed Blue and Gray. Athletics Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog