Skip to main content Responding to COVID-19 Current Students Alumni Faculty and Staff Apply (Graduate) Apply (Undergraduate) Give About The Weitzman School Fast Facts Justice and Belonging at Weitzman: Beyond DEI People Development + Alumni Relations Press Room Support the School Policies Contact Us Academics Graduate Architecture Undergraduate Architecture City and Regional Planning Graduate Fine Arts Undergraduate Fine Arts & Design Historic Preservation Landscape Architecture Urban Spatial Analytics All Degrees + Certificates Admissions Get to Know Us Visit Us Admissions Events How to Apply International Applicants Tuition & Aid Admitted Students Undergraduate Applicants Impact Weitzman News Events + Exhibitions Global Engagement PennPraxis Annual Weitzman School Awards Partners Penn Planning Equity Initiative Making Sense Research Advanced Research & Innovation Lab Kleinman Center For Energy Policy The McHarg Center Penn Institute For Urban Research Center for Environmental Building & Design The Center for Architectural Conservation Applying for Research Funds Center for Public Art and Space Center for the Preservation of Civil Rights Sites Resources Architectural Archives Fisher Fine Arts Library Institute of Contemporary Art The Common Press IT Services Fabrication Lab Career Resources All Resources Student Council (Graduate Students) Search form Search Center for Environmental Building & Design About People Publications Projects Related Research Centers Ecological Architecture Certificate Environmental Building Design Certificate The Center for Environmental Building & Design* is a faculty research unit at the University of Pennsylvania Stuart Weitzman School of Design dedicated to improving the environmental future of contemporary buildings and cities. We must look beyond building efficiency standards and net-zero formulations to design truly resilient buildings and cities. Over the coming century we must use the knowledge, technologies, and expectations of the twenty-first- century metropolis to return to the renewable resource base of pre-industrial economies. The challenges of environmental design occur at multiple, interacting scales and can only be approached systemically, so the CEBD works in interdisciplinary teams on projects at a range of scales. Building products and components, such as responsive building skins, advanced glass. Building performance & design, including energy, daylighting and air flow analysis, new materials and methods of construction, and management strategies for large collections of buildings. Urban and Regional assessment, land use strategies, resource allocation, and decision making for resilient development. The Center for Environmental Building and Design is organically aligned with programs in the school, from which faculty, graduate research assistants, and full-time research associates and post-docs are drawn. The work occurs in multiple levels of activity. Research and consulting projects Publication of findings in journal articles, books, and other media Education in formal degree programs and through public symposia and workshops The CEBD is directed by Dr. William W. Braham, Professor of Architecture, who also serves as Director of the Master of Environmental Building Design. He has worked on energy and architecture for over 30 years as a designer, consultant, researcher, and author of many articles and books. He recently published Architecture and Systems Ecology: Thermodynamic Principles for Environmental Building Design, in three parts (2015). He has also co-edited Architecture and Energy: Performance and Style (2013) and Energy Accounts: Architectural Representations of Energy, Climate, and the Future (2016). *formerly the TC Chan Center for Building Simulation and Energy Studies © 2021 University of Pennsylvania Stuart Weitzman School of Design Sitemap | Privacy Policy Support Weitzman Your contribution positively impacts our ability to educate the creative leaders of the future. Report accessibility issues and get help Office of the Dean 102 Meyerson Hall 210 South 34th Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 Connect Subscribe to Design Weekly: News from Weitzman Login Log In