Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V Faculty/Staff Faculty/Staff About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close Faculty/Staff menu Faculty/Staff Audiences Home Alumni Community Donors Faculty/Staff First-Generation Parents Students close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps The Interview: Marlon Urquico The Honors College’s new assistant director of advising and retention initiatives has a long record of helping UNLV students find their way. Read More MyUNLV Working Remotely UNLVMail WebCampus Administration and Finance Workday Business Affairs Human Resources Controller Purchasing Faculty Affairs Directories Employee Search A-Z Index Colleges, School and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Academic Resources Academic Calendar Bookstore Classroom Scheduling Curriculum Team Faculty Websites Libraries From the News Center The Course: Sex, Society, and Hot-Button Issues The Course: Sex, Society, and Hot-Button Issues Class tackles taboos to help future social workers to factually and professionally discuss sex. From Hurt to Hope: The Benefits of Virtual Grief Support From Hurt to Hope: The Benefits of Virtual Grief Support Through a community partnership, the UNLV School of Nursing helps address loss through online support groups. Artistic Creation & the Audience Artistic Creation & the Audience ‘Family-Style’ Burlesque and Women as Spectators. Postcards from Italy: A Last Farewell Postcards from Italy: A Last Farewell In the fair city of Verona, UNLV's Global Entrepreneurship Experience learn about marketing and social impact in Italy. Visit the News Center Share A Story UNLV Today Announcements Endowment Establishes Pam Quirk Brain Health and Biomarker Laboratory Endowment Establishes Pam Quirk Brain Health and Biomarker Laboratory The UNLV Foundation is honored to recognize the generosity of Ted and Maria Quirk, who recently established an endowment to create the Pam Quirk… Wednesday, May. 25 Wellness Webinar Offered Care Center Provides Campus-Based Advocacy Training and Assistance to UNR UNLV Sports Research and Innovation Initiative - Las Vegas Aces Tickets Tuesday, May. 24 Jr. Rebels Camp Summer Registration Still Ongoing Volunteers Needed for Sports Concussion Management Research Study More Announcements Submit an Announcement Calendar Jul 4: Independence Day Recess Jul 4: Independence Day Recess Independence Day recess. The UNLV campus will be closed for the Independence Day holiday and will reopen Tuesday, July 5. Today's Events (All day): National Education for Women's (NEW) Leadership Nevada 9:00am: Rising Rebel Skills Volleyball Camp 9:00am: BFA Studio Art Exhibition 2022 10:00am: The Mojave Project by Kim Stringfellow 10:00am: "Untitled" (L.A.) 10:00am: Spirit of the Land 12:00pm: Dissertation Defense: Josiah Kidwell 5:30pm: Kirk Kerkorian School of Medicine at UNLV Admissions Information Session (All day): UNLV Housing - Residence Hall Roommate Matching Full Calendar Submit an Event Accomplishments Published: Sungyoun Chun, Hyeki Park, Ji Yoo, Jinwook Hwang, Pearl Kim, Seong Park, and Jay Shen Published: Sungyoun Chun, Hyeki Park, Ji Yoo, Jinwook Hwang, Pearl Kim, Seong Park, and Jay Shen Sungyoun Chun, Jinwook Hwang, Pearl Kim, Jay Shen (all Healthcare Administration), Dr. Ji Yoo (Medicine), and Seong Park (Criminal Justice) recently published a paper, “Trends and Age-related Characteristics of Substance Use Hospitalizations of Homeless Population: 2007-2015" on Medicine. Published: Austin Horng-En Wang Published: Austin Horng-En Wang Austin Horng-En Wang (Political Science) published a co-authored op-ed, "Why Was Taiwan Left Out of the US-Led IPEF?" in The Diplomat. This article discusses the decision-making of the Biden Administration regarding the IPEF and its Indo-Pacific strategy, and argues the pros and cons for not including Taiwan into the IPEF. To be specific, IPEF may… More Accomplishments Submit an Accomplishment Work at UNLV Work at UNLV We are looking for diverse, talented, and passionate people to contribute to our mission of teaching, research, and service. Employee Involvement Employee Involvement There's no denying your impact on our students and our campus. You are part of the Rebel family, which extends beyond your everyday responsibilities. First-Generation Faculty First-Generation Faculty First generation faculty members face many of the same challenges in higher education as they did when they were first generation students. Work/Life at UNLV Work/Life at UNLV UNLV offers programs and services to promote health and wellness, along with professional development opportunities designed to help our employees achieve professional and personal balance and growth. Faculty/Staff Wellness Faculty/Staff Wellness Exercising, meditating, learning, and connecting with peers all contribute to your well-being. The following resources are categorized according to the eight dimensions of wellness: emotional, environmental, financial, intellectual, occupational, physical, social, and spiritual. They are designed to help guide you along a path to holistic wellness. Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV