Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search People Affiliated Faculty Research Activities Temple University College of Liberal Arts Labs, Centers and Institutes News Events Sites Center for Sustainable Communities Center for Vietnamese Philosophy, Culture and Society Center for the Humanities at Temple Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy Feinstein Center for American Jewish History Institute for Survey Research Public Policy Lab Temple University Brain Research & Imaging Center / Center for Sustainable Communities Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Sustainability Solutions in a Changing World The Center for Sustainable Communities (CSC) develops and promotes new approaches to sustainable development. The Center for Sustainable Communities at Temple University conducts integrated social and environmental research on natural, technological and socioeconomic systems to address the challenges of sustainability—how can we meet the needs of people locally and globally through equitable, innovative and practical solutions that protect the environment which sustains life on the planet. About Us The Center for Sustainable Communities (CSC) at Temple University Ambler was established in July 2000 to develop and promote new approaches to protect and preserve quality of life through sustainable development. The center, housed in the College of Liberal Arts, draws on resources at both Temple Ambler and Main Campus to conduct interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary research for sustainable development. The center draws on expertise from across the social and environmental sciences and diverse methodological approaches that include geospatial analysis and techniques, community-based research and citizen science. CSC is focused on the next frontier of research for understanding and anticipating pressing sustainability challenges as well as for facilitating the contribution of social science and academia to enabling societal transitions toward sustainability. /center-sustainable-communities-news Center News We are daring, ambitious, creative thinkers. Simultaneously civic-minded and globally conscious, our students and faculty are engaged in the community and care about our world. Center News https://events.temple.edu/department/center-for-sustainable-communities Center Events From lectures to film screenings to networking opportunities with some of the region's biggest employers, events at the College of Liberal Arts are designed to support your life's work. Center Events Go back to ResearchMore in Center for Sustainable Communities People Research Activities Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University College of Liberal Arts Center for Sustainable Communities 308 Gladfelter Hall 1115 Polett WalkPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA CLA Facebook CLA Twitter CLA Instagram Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.