Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Mechanical Engineering Programs Students Faculty Research News Accreditation Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students Future Students Current Students Take Action Herff College of Engineering Contact Us Apply to Our Undergraduate Program Apply to Our Graduate Program Home Mechanical Engineering Students Future and Current Students of ME Welcome to the mechanical engineering department website at the University of Memphis. The department currently has 13 faculty positions and nearly 300 students at all levels. The department is the strongest and largest of the mechanical engineering departments in a public institution in the western Tennessee area, and is experiencing additional growth. It is also the largest program in the college of engineering at Memphis. For students interested in University of Memphis, we offer small classes, direct access to faculty, and world-class research. A range of scholarships at the undergraduate level is offered. Graduate students have access to departmental assistantships and the prestigious Herff Fellowship. Memphis is a vibrant city with a metropolitan population of nearly 1.4 million and major industries in air and land transportation, biomedical and manufacturing industries. The department has traditionally offered a strong undergraduate program that is ABET accredited, and prepares the students for a successful engineering career in industry or for pursuing research of significant regional and national interest. The department also plays an important role for practicing engineers in providing them opportunities for continuing education, and plays a leadership role in service to the public, profession, and industry. There is ongoing research in several technical areas including: Structural Health Monitoring Bio Materials Bio Mechanics Computational Fluid Dynamics Energy Aerosol Dynamics Low Gravity Fluid Management Fatigue and Fracture Additive Manufacturing The research is supported by a variety of sources including NASA and the Office of Naval Research. As the department grows, we hope to add additional faculty and further invigorate our research programs. The department has a long list of distinguished alumni, and we are immensely proud of their achievements. We welcome their active engagement with the department in order to make it better, connect with our students, help in raising resources, and in providing advice and input at different levels. Thank you for being true ambassadors for the department. Please feel free to contact me with any questions. Dr. Ali Fatemi Ring Companies Endowed Professor and Department Chair, Director of Fatigue and Fracture Research Laboratory Undergraduate Admissions: Apply NOW! Graduate Admissions: Apply NOW! Scholarships and Employment B S in Mechanical Engineering Scholarships MECH Graduate Assistantships Herff Graduate Fellowships Herff Post-Doctoral Fellowships Undergraduate Engineering Scholarships Student Financial Aid Office University Scholarships Academic Resources Catalog: Graduate Catalog: Graduate Class Listings Frequently Asked Questions Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.