Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Academics Undergraduate Minors and Programs Interdisciplinary Studies International and Area Studies International and Area Studies The International and Area Studies major provides students with the opportunity to design an interdisciplinary program of study that facilitates an understanding of the human experience in a global perspective, while at the same time allowing them to develop in-depth knowledge and expertise in a specific geographical area. The International Studies major provides exposure to global issues. International Studies majors also choose a region in which to specialize: Europe, Asia, Latin America and Iberia, or Middle East and Africa. As an alternative to the International Studies major, a student may choose an area of study to earn a minor. Minors include: European Studies, Asian Studies, Latin American and Iberian Studies, and Middle East and African Studies. To succeed in an international career, students need expertise in the politics, economics, history, language, and cultures of societies other than their own. The curricula for the International and Area Studies programs are designed to provide students with a foundation for this expertise by requiring course work in the social sciences, business, language, and humanities. To maximize the educational experience in these degree programs, all majors are strongly encouraged to spend at least one semester or summer in a Study Abroad program. SMU offers numerous study-abroad opportunities around the world. Most of the courses taught in the study-abroad programs may be applied to the International and Area Studies major and minors. International Studies, Major International Studies, Minor Area Studies Minor International and Area Studies Why Study Here? Major and Minor Area Studies Minor Regional Specializations Study Abroad and Rules for Credit Internship and Career Opportunities Contact Information Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube