Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Career Fairs and Networking Events Home Events and Programs Career Fairs and Networking Events Events and Programs Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Connect with Employers and Alumni The Career Center hosts large career and internship fairs as well as smaller industry-specific fairs and networking events to connect Boston College students with alumni and employers. Fairs and networking events are an opportunity to discover different industries and organizations and make connections in person. All events can be found in Handshake. Handshake 2021-2022 Events Career Fair Information Networking Event Information 2021-2022 Career Fairs and Networking Events Key: Maroon: Career fairs representing all industries Blue: Business, Consulting, Finance Orange: Communication, Arts, Media Grey: Education, Nonprofit, Social Service Gold: Government, Law, Public Policy Dark Blue: Healthcare and Nursing Green: Science, Technology, Engineering Virtual Fall Career and Internship Fair Thursday, September 23, 1:00–5:00 p.m. EST, hosted on Handshake Learn More Marketing Networking Night Tuesday, September 14, 6:00 p.m. EST RSVP Careers in Tech Week Monday, September 27–Friday, October 1 Learn More Eagles in Law School Alumni Panel Wednesday, October 6 RSVP Health Professions Week Monday, October 18–Friday, October 22 Learn More Healthcare Graduate School Fair Wednesday, October 20, 2021. Registration opens Wednesday, October 6! Learn More Social Impact Careers Week Monday, October 25–Friday, October 29 Learn More Careers in International Affairs Week Monday, November 1–Friday, November 5 Learn More Career Week in Arts and Entertainment Monday, November 8–Friday, November 12 Learn More Diversity in Business National Career Fair Tuesday, November 9, 2021, 4:00–8:00 p.m., Virtual Learn More Communication Alumni Panel January 2022. More information to come. Bank Week February 1-4, 2022. More information to come. Virtual Spring Career and Internship Fair Thursday, February 17, 1:00–5:00 p.m. EST, hosted on Handshake Learn More Communication, Arts, and Media Employer Networking Night March 2022. More information to come. Sports Business Society Networking Night March 2022. More information to come. Tech & Entrepreneurship Fair March 2022. More information to come. Social Services Recruitment Fair April 1, 2022. More information to come. BC Career Center DEI Forum April 7, 2022 Register Note: Events are subject to change. All changes will be reflected on this page and in Handshake. Career and Internship Fairs The Career Center hosts career and internship fairs to connect students directly with employers looking to recruit Boston College talent. We host two large fairs at the start of each semester that cover a wide range of industries. We also host smaller, industry-specific fairs for students with more targeted interests. You can find all career fairs listed in Handshake. Handshake Upcoming fairs: Virtual Spring Career and Internship Fair Thursday, February 17, 2022 1:00–5:00 p.m. EST Hosted on Handshake Virtual career fair information What to expect During virtual career fairs, you will have the opportunity to learn about employers at group sessions and/or connect directly with recruiters during one-on-one sessions. Group Sessions: 30-minute group meetings that accommodate up to 50 students each. Recruiters will share information about their organization and potential opportunities. While you do not need to register for group sessions before the event, we highly recommend registering early to guarantee your spot. One-on-One Sessions: 10-minute meetings with recruiters. You will have the opportunity to introduce yourself and ask questions about the organization. You must register for one-on-one sessions before the day of the event. Sessions are limited and booked on a first-come, first-served basis. We highly recommend registering early to guarantee your spot. How to register You can find and register for fairs on Handshake. Visit bc.joinhandshake.com/events and filter by "Career Fairs." All students wishing to participate in the fair must have a Handshake profile and must register for the event in Handshake. Once you register for the event, you will be able to schedule one-on-one and group sessions with employers. All schedules are booked on a first-come, first-served bases. We highly recommend you research employers on Handshake prior to the opening of registration so you are prepared to schedule your sessions. How to prepare Start strong: Handshake's Guide to Attending a Virtual Fair Video: Locating and Registering for Virtual Fairs Get career fair-ready: Virtual Career Fairs Are Here! Next Stop: Getting Hired Attending a Virtual Career Fair? Here Are 10 Tips You Need to Know How to Prepare Your Virtual Career Fair “Elevator Pitch” How to Prepare for Virtual 1-on-1 Sessions How to Impress Employers at Virtual Events The 3 Must-Haves on Your Handshake Profile Get tech-ready: Handshake Video Requirements & Troubleshooting (Students) Signing Up for & Managing Virtual Fair Sessions Participating in a Virtual Fair Networking Events The Career Center hosts industry-specific networking events throughout the year to provide students the opportunity to explore career fields of interest, gain insight, make connections, and build their network. Below is a summary of major networking events. You can find all events listed in Handshake. Handshake What is the difference between a career fair and a networking event? While both events provide an opportunity to network and make connections, a career fair is designed to help students make connections with recruiters who are seeking to fill full-time or internship roles. Networking events are more informational and designed to help students explore career fields of interest. Networking event information How to prepare Set goals: Knowing what you want to accomplish will help you stay focused at the event. Are you interested in learning more about a specific field or position? Are you hoping to connect with professionals from a specific organization? Think through your goals so that you feel prepared with a plan. Do your homework: If a list of attendees is available, make sure you read through it to understand with whom you’d like to connect. Do some research on persons/employers of interest so that you feel ready to converse with them. Practice your elevator pitch: An elevator pitch is a 30 second “personal commercial” detailing your interests and experience. An effective elevator pitch highlights your skills, qualifications, professional goals, and allows someone to connect with you over a shared interest. It also helps to end with a question to help lead into a conversation. Example: I’m currently a junior at Boston College majoring in psychology and communication. I recently took a class on strategic communication, and am fascinated by the ways in which corporations communicate with their employees to create culture. I’m hoping to intern this summer in some sort of corporate communication role to get a sense of what that looks like as a career path. I read that you worked in internal communications at LL Bean. That sounds very interesting.Can you tell me more about your role within the organization and what your typical day looks like? At the event Dress professionally: Business attire is recommended for career fairs, while business casual is often appropriate for networking events, employer information sessions, panel discussions, informational interviews, and other presentations. Start conversations: Remember your goals, approach people of interest, and start conversations with your elevator pitch. Listen: Try to focus on what the person is saying rather than thinking ahead to your next question. The information you learn from these types of conversations may help you clarify your interests in a specific field or may lead to opportunities. Request a business card: Ask if you can connect again after the event. After the event Follow up: Send thank you emails to anyone you met within 24 hours. Try to personalize each message by referencing something specific you discussed. Track your interactions: keep a document detailing names and conversations you had so that you may reference it later on From the Career Center Blog How to Research Employers for the Career Fair in 5 steps The best way you can make a lasting impression at the Spring Virtual Career Fair is to come prepared. Employers January 31, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam 6 Employers Give You Their Career Fair Advice Registration for the Boston College Career Fair opens to all students on February 7th. As you think about how to January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Three Reasons It’s OK to Skip the Career Fair No, that’s not a typo. The Career Center IS telling you it may be OK to skip the fair. Let February 11, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Six Post Career Fair Tips You did it! You attended a career fair. Congratulations on taking a positive step forward in your career journey! Do September 15, 2020 BCCareerCenterTeam How to Research an Organization Do you want to stand out at the career fair or during an interview? The best way to do this September 11, 2020 BCCareerCenterTeam Career Fair Dos and Don’ts from a Recruiter Whether in person or virtual, there are a few simple strategies to improve your odds of making a strong and September 11, 2020 BCCareerCenterTeam How to Research Employers for the Career Fair in 5 steps The best way you can make a lasting impression at the Spring Virtual Career Fair is to come prepared. Employers January 31, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam 6 Employers Give You Their Career Fair Advice Registration for the Boston College Career Fair opens to all students on February 7th. As you think about how to January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Three Reasons It’s OK to Skip the Career Fair No, that’s not a typo. The Career Center IS telling you it may be OK to skip the fair. Let February 11, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College