Skip to main content Toggle navigation University of Pennsylvania Graduate School of Education About Penn GSE & Our Impact Philadelphia Impact Global Initiatives Diversity & Inclusion Catalyst @ Penn GSE Penn GSE Leadership Contact Us Academics & Research Program Finder Academic Divisions & Programs Professional Development & Continuing Education Center for Professional Learning Teacher Programs & Certifications Undergraduates Dual and Joint Degrees Faculty Directory Research Centers, Projects & Initiatives Lectures & Colloquia Books & Publications Academic Journals Admissions & Financial Aid Application Requirements & Deadlines Tuition & Financial Aid Campus Visits & Events International Students Penn Undergraduates Non-Degree Studies Contact Admissions / Request Information Student Experience Life at Penn GSE Penn GSE Career Paths Living in Philadelphia DE&I Resources for Students Student Organizations Student Blogs Career & Professional Development News & Events News Events Calendar The Educator's Playbook Find an Expert Explore by Topic Philadelphia Impact Global Initiatives Race, Equity & Inclusion Counseling & Psychology Education Innovation & Entrepreneurship Education Policy & Analysis Higher Education Language, Literacy & Culture Leadership Teaching & Learning Special Topic: COVID-19 Support Penn GSE The Future of Education Our Impact The Power of Possibility Ways to Give Contact Development & Alumni Relations Find a Program Request Info Apply Make a Gift Info For Alumni Current Students Staff & Faculty Donors Employers Search form Search You are here Home > Academics & Research > Faculty Directory > John L. Puckett John L. Puckett Download Hi-Res Photo Professor Emeritus of Education Literacy, Culture, and International Education Division Contact johnp@upenn.edu (215) 898-7389 Media Inquiries: Contact Penn GSE Communications. Education Ph.D. (Education) University of North Carolina, 1986 M.A. (Education) University of Georgia, 1980 B.A. (German) Davidson College, 1970 Areas of Expertise Civic education and community schooling University-community relations The American research university The American high school History of American education Programs Education, Culture, and Society Ph.D. Education, Culture, and Society M.S.Ed. Education Policy Ph.D. Education Policy M.S.Ed. More Information West Philadelphia Collaborative History Bio Nav Biography Professional Biography John Puckett teaches courses and seminars in American education reform, history, policy, and practice; education and the American city; and John Dewey. He served as associate dean of Penn GSE from 1998–2004 and again in 2006–2007. Dr. Puckett chaired the Educational Leadership Division from 1999–2000 and the Education Policy Division (EPD) from 2007–11. He also served on the School’s Executive Committee for eleven years. Dr. Puckett’s background includes six years of teaching and administrative work in public and private secondary schools in North Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. He holds a Ph.D. in education from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Before coming to Penn in 1987, Dr. Puckett was director of research and development for REAL Enterprises, a non-profit organization that helped catalyze school-based economic development projects in the rural South. At Penn, Dr. Puckett has been actively involved in building partnerships with West Philadelphia schools. From 1988–1992, he worked with Ira Harkavy to develop the University of Pennsylvania’s Center for Community Partnerships, which is now called the Netter Center. In conjunction with the Netter Center and the School of Arts and Sciences’ Urban Studies Program, he teaches undergraduate academically-based community service seminars that focus on school and neighborhood improvement projects in West Philadelphia. He has co-authored a number of journal articles and book chapters with faculty affiliated with the Netter Center, advancing the development of university-assisted community schools and academically-based community service. Research Interests and Current Projects Dr. Puckett is currently a Distinguished Fellow of the Netter Center. Other current projects include leadership roles in the West Philadelphia Community History Center and Penn GSE’s Independent School Teaching Residency program. He is also a frequent Bodek Lecturer for the University. Dr. Puckett serves on various university, community, public school, and citywide advisory boards and task forces. One of his recent projects was a successful five-year community organizing effort to build a new high school in West Philadelphia. In 1991–92, Dr. Puckett was designated a Spencer Foundation/National Academy of Education postdoctoral fellow; his study centered on the history of the community school concept from 1886 to the present. In 1996–97, he was designated a Fulbright Scholar to Germany, where he lectured in American Studies at the Otto-von-Guericke-Universität in Magdeburg. Dr. Puckett’s MOOC, American Education Reform, with Penn GSE’s Michael C. Johanek, appears annually on Coursera’s online platform. Dr. Puckett is the author of Foxfire Reconsidered: A Twenty-Year Experiment in Progressive Education (University of Illinois Press, 1989); Leonard Covello and the Making of Benjamin Franklin High School: Education As If Citizenship Mattered (Temple University Press, 2007), with Michael C. Johanek; Dewey’s Dream: Universities and Democracies in an Age of Education Reform (Temple University Press, 2007), with Lee Benson and Ira Harkavy; and Becoming Penn: The Pragmatic American University, 1950–2000 (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2015). Publications Featured Books Knowledge for Social Change: Bacon, Dewey, and the Revolutionary Transformation of Research Universities in the Twenty-First Century Becoming Penn: The Pragmatic American University, 1950-2000 Dewey’s Dream: Universities and Democracies in an Age of Education Reform Leonard Covello and the Making of Benjamin Franklin High School Selected Publications Puckett, J. L., & Lloyd, M. F. (2015). Becoming Penn: The pragmatic American university, 1950–2000. Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press. Puckett, J. L., & Lloyd, M. F. (2013, October). Penn’s great expansion: Postwar urban renewal and the alliance between private universities and the public sector. Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography, 137(4), 381–430. Puckett, J. L., & Lloyd, M. F. (2011). Martin Meyerson’s dream of “one university”: The Penn presidency, 1970-81, and beyond. Journal of Planning History, 10, 193–218. Puckett, J. L., Benson, L., & Harkavy, I. (2007). Dewey’s dream: Universities and democracies in an age of education reform. Philadelphia, PA: Temple University Press. Puckett, J. L., & Johanek, M. C. (2007). Leonard Covello and the making of Benjamin Franklin High School: Education as if citizenship mattered. Philadelphia, PA: Temple University Press. Puckett, J. L. (2004). The state of civic education: Preparing citizens in an era of accountability. In M. Lazerson & S. Fuhrman (Eds.), Institutions of democracy: The public schools. New York, NY: Oxford University Press. Puckett, J. L., Benson, L., & Harkavy, I. (2000). An implementation revolution as a strategy for fulfilling the democratic promise of university-community partnerships: Penn-West Philadelphia as an experiment in progress. [Special issue]. Non-Profit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, 29(1), 24–45. Puckett, J. L., & Forgey, E. (2000). History as public work. In I. Harkavy & A. Donovan (Eds.), Service learning and the disciplines: Current developments in historical scholarship. Washington, D.C.: American Association of Higher Education. Puckett, J. L., Harkavy, I., & Romer, D. (2000, Fall). Action research as an approach for improving service, teaching and research. [Special issue]. Michigan Journal of Community Service Learning, 113–18. Puckett, J. L., & Harkavy, I. (1999). University-assisted community schools and strategic academically-based community service. In E. Clinchy (Ed.), Reforming education from the bottom to the top, (pp. 150–170). Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann. Puckett, J. L., & Harkavy, I. (1999). The action research tradition in American social science: Toward a strategy for revitalizing the social sciences, the university and the American city. In D. Greenwood (Ed.), Action, research: From practice to writing in an international action research development program (pp. 147–167). Philadelphia, PA: John Benjamins. Puckett, J. L., & Harkavy, I. (1994). Lessons from Hull House for the contemporary urban university. Social Service Review, 68(3), 299–321. Puckett, J. L. (1989). Foxfire reconsidered: A twenty-year experiment in progressive education. Urbana, IL: University of Illinois Press. News & Media In the Media University expansion in West Phila., cost to neighborhoods, examined “There’s plenty of controversy over other things that have happened at Penn over the years,” says John Puckett.Philadelphia Tribune | September 29, 2015 University of Pennsylvania Graduate School of Education 3700 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 1-877-PENN-GSE admissions@gse.upenn.edu About Admissions & Financial Aid Find a Program Visiting Campus Alumni Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Directory Open Faculty Positions Support Penn GSE Academic Calendar Events Calendar Career & Professional Development Canvas Access PennInTouch Libraries Registrar/Student Records Office Webmail Business Office Facility Services Human Resources Information Technology Staff Directory U@Penn Report accessibility issues and request help © 2022 Penn Graduate School of Education Facebook Twitter Vimeo LinkedIn Instagram Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Penn GSE Equal Opportunity & Harassment Policies