Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Department of Geological and Atmospheric Sciences Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Majors Geology Degree Requirements Geology B.S. 4 Year Plan Earth Science 4 Year Plan Geology as a Secondary Major Concurrent BS/MS and BS/MBA degrees in Geology Minors Meteorology Degree Requirements Meteorology 4 Year Plan Meteorology as a Secondary Major Concurrent BS/MS in Meteorology Minors Oetken Memorial Scholarship Interdisciplinary Studies in Climate Science Course Catalog Academic Success Center Student Disability Resources Field Camp Graduate Study Open Graduate Student Positions Geology Geology Application Process Concurrent BS/MS and BS/MBA degrees in Geology Geology Graduate Handbook Geology PhD Annual Progress Report Form Geoscience Graduate Student Learning Goals Meteorology Meteorology Application Process Concurrent BS/MS in Meteorology Meteorology Graduate Handbook Meteorology PhD Annual Progress Report Form ISU Graduate College Directory Faculty Staff Postdocs Grad Students Diversity & Inclusion DEI Plan DEI Checklist and Schedule Additional DEI Resources Research Climate and Quaternary Research SIPERG Lab Geoscience Education Hydrological Sciences Mesoscale / Microscale Meteorology Solid Earth Processes Resources Alumni Newsletters GE-AT Distinguished Alumni Meet Our Alumni Alumni Reflections ASBOG Fundamentals of Geology Exam Awards Career Information Departmental Forms Geoscience Research Apprenticeship Program Governance Document Oetken Memorial Scholarship Program Outcomes and Assessment Scholarships/Fellowships/Grants Home Welcome! Changing climate, dwindling energy resources, natural hazards, and deteriorating environmental quality are among the most challenging of societal problems. Geoscientists, who study Earth processes and resources to understand and help address these and related issues, are in high demand. A degree in geology or meteorology opens the door to career opportunities that involve: innovative technologies outdoor adventures and world travel work that helps sustain society and protect the planet Already decided on a major? Adding Geology or Meteorology as a second major will further enhance your career path. Check out our department’s 4-year course plans for combining Geology as a secondary degree or Meteorology as a secondary degree with Engineering, Environmental Science, and Biology. Commitment to Inclusive, Quality Teaching Our department is committed to building and supporting a diverse, equitable, and inclusive environment to ensure the learning and success of all students. We ascribe to the Principles of Community at Iowa State, specifically highlighting richness of diversity, respect, and freedom from discrimination. Since 2000, nine of our faculty have been recognized one or more times with college or university-wide teaching awards. Our Earth, Wind, and Fire Learning Community helps students build strong connections with their peers, as do our active student clubs. Our American Meteorological Society student chapter was recently named the top such student group in the nation for the second year in a row (and three out of the last four years). Our summer geology field camp in northwestern Wyoming has a long and outstanding tradition of experiential learning Research Department faculty members maintain well-funded research programs in several focus areas: Mesoscale/Microscale Meteorology Hydrological Sciences Climate and Quaternary Studies Solid Earth Processes Geoscience Education These programs fuel discovery and provide the basis for active graduate programs in geology and meteorology and for undergraduate research and employment opportunities. Land Acknowledgement Iowa State University is located on the ancestral lands and territory of the Baxoje (bah-kho-dzhe), or Ioway Nation. The United States obtained the land from the Meskwaki and Sauk nations in the Treaty of 1842. We wish to recognize our obligations to this land and to the people who took care of it, as well as to the 17,000 Native people who live in Iowa today. News and Events Lt. Col. Breea Lisko honored with Distinguished Alumni Award Regional climate forecast is troubling, but there’s hope Winds of Change - The Graether Family Fund for Climate Science Glaciologists measure, model hard glacier beds, write slip law to estimate glacier speeds Timing is Everything - Graether Family Fund for Climate Science Advancement → read more Quick Links Seminar Schedule Geology Field Camp GEAT Governance Document Alumni Resources ASBOG Fundamentals of Geology Exam Real-time Weather Data College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Department of Geological and Atmospheric Sciences Department of Geological and Atmospheric Sciences 253 Science Hall 2237 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-3212 geology@iastate.edu meteorology@iastate.edu 515-294-4477 phone Facebook - Geology Facebook - Meteorology Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...