Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Our Work Resources News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Opportunities for Research Students learn about research first-hand through "out of classroom experiences" AND Field Notes! Learn about applied and engaged anthropology The Department of Anthropology offers one of the nation's leading Master of Arts programs in applied anthropology. Main Office and Location The Department of Anthropology is located in Manning Hall beside the fountain in Student Plaza. More info This is your DREAM Let our award-winning faculty and advisors help make it come true. Undergraduate Training in Anthropology Explore degree requirements, courses of interest and how to declare your major in anthropology. Learning Around the World Students work with colleagues in the Simeto River Valley in Sicily, Italy learning and promoting regional development PreviousNext Take Action Undergraduates Join the Graduate Program Support the Department Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Nationally Ranked # 5 Study.com Best Online Bachelor's in Anthropology View All Rankings Home Department of Anthropology Anthropology: Studying People & Cultures and Applying Knowledge to Real World Issues What is Anthropology and what does training in Anthropology do for you? Anthropology is the study of humankind. Anthropologists explore the culture, evolution, behavior, beliefs and social organization of peoples around the world in prehistoric, historic, and contemporary contexts. Anthropology majors develop cross-cultural communication, human relations, critical thinking, writing, analysis, evaluation, problem-solving, planning, and community outreach skills. It is an ideal field to prepare for jobs that require people skills, and understanding of multicultural and institutional dynamics. The minor in Anthropology is also valuable for those planning to work with diverse national and international populations. The University of Memphis Offers Two Anthropology Degrees Students pursuing a Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology have the opportunity for training in three of the four subfields: cultural and biological anthropology, and archaeology. Students can also take advantage of numerous opportunities for enriched learning such as internships, service-learning, and study abroad. Students with diverse interests will find anthropology to be a stimulating major or minor, with relevance for understanding pressing real world issues. In our last Senior Exit Survey students were 100% satisfied with the accessibility of faculty and 94% satisfied with the quality of teaching. Students pursuing a Master of Arts in Anthropology join a nationally-recognized applied program. Students benefit from opportunities to work directly with local organizations, and gain experience in community development, environmental justice and sustainability, cultural identity and heritage, health disparities, healthcare systems, health risk and business anthropology. The networks, knowledge, and experience students build is invaluable for future employment. In a 2014 survey, 90% of alumni from the MA program reported that they were satisfied with the quality of their education, and over 84% say their MA plays a significant role in their overall career satisfaction. First year graduate students are also eligible to apply for the Tim Bolding Scholarship in Anthropology. The application deadline for the Bolding Scholarship is July 1, 2019. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/9/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.