Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Elementary Education (BS) – Professional Studies Track (Non-Certification) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Teacher Education, Schl of In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Elementary Education Professional Studies track is a non-certification track that is appropriate for students who wish to work with students in a traditional K-6 classroom setting, but have not passed the required exams to be admitted to and graduate in the K-6 Certification track. Students graduating in the Professional Studies track are not eligible for teaching certification from the Florida Department of Education upon graduation and will not earn the ESOL or Reading endorsements. Admission Requirements Complete the University General Education requirements or its equivalent, i.e., an AA degree from an approved Florida College System or State University System institution. Have a minimum 2.5 overall GPA. Complete EDF 2005 Introduction to Teaching Profession course with a minimum letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. Meet the Gordon Rule Requirement. Meet the Foreign Language Admission Requirement. Degree Requirements Students should see an advisor prior to registering for classes. The courses designated in 1 (UCF General Education Program) and 2 (Education Common Program Prerequisites) should be completed prior to admission to the major and upper division education courses. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. 3rd Grade Reading Teacher 4th Grade Math Teacher Counselor Education Professor Elementary School Band Director Elementary School Teacher Grades 1 Thru 5 Teacher Literacy Education Professor Mathematics Education Professor Primary Education Professor Science Education Professor Secondary Education Professor Special Education Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Elementary Education (BS) - Professional Studies Track (Non-Certification) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Elementary Education Professional Studies track is a non-certification track that is appropriate for students who wish to work with students in a traditional K-6 classroom setting, but have not passed the required exams to be admitted to and graduate in the K-6 Certification track. Students graduating in the Professional Studies track are not eligible for teaching certification from the Florida Department of Education upon graduation and will not earn the ESOL or Reading endorsements. Admission Requirements Complete the University General Education requirements or its equivalent, i.e., an AA degree from an approved Florida College System or State University System institution. Have a minimum 2.5 overall GPA. Complete EDF 2005 Introduction to Teaching Profession course with a minimum letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. Meet the Gordon Rule Requirement. Meet the Foreign Language Admission Requirement. Degree Requirements Students should see an advisor prior to registering for classes. The courses designated in 1 (UCF General Education Program) and 2 (Education Common Program Prerequisites) should be completed prior to admission to the major and upper division education courses. Restricted Electives None Capstone Requirements None Electives None Foreign Language Requirements Admissions State University System foreign language admission requirement: two years in high school or one year of college instruction in a single foreign language. (This requirement applies to those students admitted to the University without the required two units of foreign language in high school.) Graduation None Additional Requirements None Required Minors None Departmental Exit Requirements Achieve a minimum overall 2.5 GPA within the major. Achieve a minimum 2.5 GPA in education core coursework. Achieve a minimum 2.5 GPA in specialization coursework. Achieve a minimum overall 2.5 GPA You must upload key assignments using the Via by Watermark platform. Key assignments are assessed by faculty to provide evidence of candidate proficiency in all Florida Educator Accomplished Practices (FEAPs). All teacher education candidates, Professional Studies majors, Lifelong Learning majors, and Early Childhood Development & Education majors (all ECDE tracks) are required to complete all Via requirements before being certified for graduation. See https://ccie.ucf.edu/explore-via/. Complete ESOL standards assessment tracking requirements in the Via by Watermark platform for the ESOL endorsement. University Minimum Exit Requirements A 2.0 UCF GPA 42 semester hours of upper division credit completed 60 semester hours earned after CLEP awarded 30 of the last 39 hours of course work must be completed in residency at UCF. A maximum of 45 hours of extension, correspondence, CLEP, Credit by Exam, and Armed Forces credits permitted. Complete the General Education Program, the Gordon Rule, and nine hours of Summer credit. Total Undergraduate Credit Hours Required: 120 Additional Information Total Semester Hours Required 120 Honors In Major None Related Programs None Certificates None Related Minors None Advising Notes None Transfer Notes None Acceptable Substitutes for Transfer Courses None Program Academic Learning Compacts Program Academic Learning Compacts (student learning outcomes) for undergraduate programs are located at: http://www.oeas.ucf.edu/alc/academic_learning_compacts.htm Equipment Fees Part-Time Student: $6 per term Full-Time Student: $12 per term Plan of Study This recommended sequence may vary at selected regional campus locations. Consult with your Education advisor and review your degree audit for more recent information. Freshman Year - Fall (12 Credit Hours) ENC 1101 - Composition I Credit Hours: 3 MAC 1105C - College Algebra Credit Hours: 3 EDG 2000 - Careers in K-12 Education Credit Hours: 3 Select One: (3 Credit Hours) MUL 2010 - Enjoyment of Music Credit Hours: 3 THE 2000 - Theatre Survey Credit Hours: 3 PHI 2010 - Introduction to Philosophy Credit Hours: 3 Freshman Year - Spring (12 Credit Hours) 1 Courses taken at a Florida College System institution may substitute for select courses in Other Program Requirements with the permission of the department. EDF 2005 - Introduction to the Teaching Profession Credit Hours: 3 ENC 1102 - Composition II Credit Hours: 3 PSY 2012 - General Psychology Credit Hours: 3 PSC 1121 - Physical Science Credit Hours: 3 Freshman Year - Summer (6 Credit Hours) POS 2041 - American National Government Credit Hours: 3 EDF 2130 - Child and Adolescent Development for Educators Credit Hours: 3 Sophomore Year - Fall (15 Credit Hours) Cultural & Historical Foundation, Area 1 Elective Credit Hours: 3 BSC 1005 - Biological Principles Credit Hours: 3 SPC 1608 - Fundamentals of Oral Communication Credit Hours: 3 EDE 2280 - Arts and Wellness in Elementary Classrooms Credit Hours: 3 EDF 2720 - Children in Schools: Legal, Ethical and Safety Concerns Credit Hours: 3 Sophomore Year - Spring (15 Credit Hours) 1 Courses taken at a Florida College System institution may substitute for select courses in Other Program Requirements with the permission of the department. Cultural & Historical Foundation, Area 3; Elective (Prefer course from Cultural & Historical Foundation, Area 1);&nbsp;Credit Hours: 3 STA 2014 - Principles of Statistics Credit Hours: 3 EDG 2940 - Experiential Learning in Education Credit Hours: 3 SCE 3053 - Elementary Science for Teaching Credit Hours 3 SSE 3112 - Elementary Social Studies for Teaching Credit Hours: 3 Junior Year - Fall (15 Credit Hours) EDG 4410 - Teaching Strategies and Classroom Management Credit Hours: 3 MAE 3310 - Elementary Mathematics for Teaching I Credit Hours: 3 LAE 3414 - Literature for Children Credit Hours: 3 RED 3012 - Basic Foundations of Reading Credit Hours: 3 TSL 4080 - Theory and Practice of Teaching ESOL Students in Schools Credit Hours: 3 Junior Year - Spring (15 Credit Hours) SCE 3310 - Teaching Science in Elementary School Credit Hours: 3 SSE 3312 - Teaching Social Science in the Elementary School Credit Hours: 3 LAE 4314 - Language Arts in the Elementary School Credit Hours: 3 RED 4519 - Diagnostic and Corrective Reading Strategies Credit Hours: 3 MAE 3311 - Elementary Mathematics for Teaching II Credit Hours: 3 Junior Year - Summer (6 Credit Hours) EDF 4467 - Learning Theory and Assessment Credit Hours: 3 TSL 4240 - Issues in Second Language Acquisition Credit Hours: 3 Senior Year - Fall (12 Credit Hours) RED 4942 - Practicum for Assessment and Instruction of Reading Credit Hours: 3 MAE 4326 - How Children Learn Mathematics Credit Hours: 3 EEX 4070 - Teaching Exceptional Students Credit Hours: 3 EDE 3942 - Internship I Credit Hours: 3 Senior Year - Spring (12 Credit Hours) EDE 4943 - Internship II (Elementary) Credit Hours: 9 EDE 4301 - Elem Ed Capstone Colloquium Credit Hours: 3 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida