Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary FOSTER SCHOOL OF BUSINESS BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 B A 110 International Baccalaureate (IB) Business Management (4-6) Course awarded based on International Baccalaureate (IB) score. Consult the Admissions Exams for Credit website for more information. View course details in MyPlan: B A 110 B A 300 Foreign Study-Business Administration (1-5, max. 15) For participants in approved foreign-study programs where equivalent UW business administration courses are not available. View course details in MyPlan: B A 300 B A 390 Business Honors Seminar (2-5, max. 5) Special topics in business. Required for Honors students in Business Administration. View course details in MyPlan: B A 390 B A 391 Learning Leadership in Theory and Practice (2-4) Explores leadership techniques and principle using readings, case, lectures, and large group discussions designed to increase knowledge of leadership theory and practice as well as develop leadership potential. Uses small group sessions incorporating experiential exercises, self-reflection, and leadership conversations. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with GEN ST 301. View course details in MyPlan: B A 391 B A 490 Special Topics in Business (1-6, max. 12) View course details in MyPlan: B A 490 B A 495 Business Internship (1-4, max. 8) Internship with a private firm, nonprofit organization, or government agency, where work experience involves substantial application of business concepts learned in the classroom. Prerequisite: ACCTG 225. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B A 495 B A 500 Business Administration I (16) Coordinated series consisting of accounting, business economics, business ethics, business policy, finance, information systems, international business, legal environment of business, management, and organizational behavior, marketing, operations management, and quantitative methods for management. Prerequisite: permission of the Foster School of Business. View course details in MyPlan: B A 500 B A 501 Business Administration II (14) Coordinated series consisting of accounting, business economics, business ethics, business policy, finance, information systems, international business, legal environment of business, management, and organizational behavior, marketing, operations management, and quantitative methods for management. Prerequisite: permission of the Foster School of Business. View course details in MyPlan: B A 501 B A 502 Business Administration III (8) Coordinated series consisting of accounting, business economics, business ethics, business policy, finance, information systems, international business, legal environment of business, management, and organizational behavior, marketing, operations management, and quantitative methods for management. Prerequisite: permission of the Foster School of Business. View course details in MyPlan: B A 502 B A 505 Global Business Fundamentals (16) An intensive overview of the fundamental core business topics: financial accounting, managerial accounting, business economics, statistics, management, macroeconomics, finance, marketing, operations management, quantitative methods, and strategy. Prerequisite: permission. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: B A 505 B A 541 Environmental Management I (4) Survey of environmental ethics, environmental laws and regulation, the economics of environmental decisions, and the relationship of business to public policy and the environment. Must be taken concurrently with B A 544. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: B A 541 B A 542 Environmental Management II (4) Applications of the functional areas of business to environmental concerns. Major federal legislation affecting these concerns applied to business problems in the areas of accounting, finance, marketing, management information systems, and organizational behavior. Must be taken concurrently with B A 544. Prerequisite: B A 541 or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: B A 542 B A 543 Environmental Management III (4) Case studies that integrate the fundamentals of business and environmental management to address such issues as plant siting, regulatory compliance, production line changes, and innovative, proactive responses to environmental issues. Case studies include results of student consulting projects and a capstone case in environmental management. Must be taken concurrently with B A 544. Prerequisite: B A 542 or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: B A 543 B A 544 Environmental Management Seminar (1, max. 3) Guest lecturers from academia, business, government, and advocacy groups discuss environmental science, ethics, law, regulation, economics, finance, accounting, and policy issues. Seminar topics supplement course material in B A 541, B A 542, B A 543, which are to be taken concurrently. View course details in MyPlan: B A 544 B A 545 The Global Business Forum: Current Issues in Global Business (1, max. 3) Discussion of current trends in the global business environment and of international issues facing companies. Leaders from international businesses and other organizations, as well as faculty members from various departments and specializations, invited to share their perspectives with seminar participants. Topics change each quarter. View course details in MyPlan: B A 545 B A 560 Cooperative Education in Business (1) Business practicum: internship with approved business or governmental agency. Open only to students who meet requirements of internship program. Internship credit may not be applied to fulfill specific course requirements or to credits required for graduation. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: B A 560 B A 571 Research Reports (4-) Independent study in business administration; critical evaluation of business analysis and research methods. Effective communication of ideas emphasized. Methods and content of independent research studies subjected to critical evaluation. Open only to MBA non-thesis students. Prerequisite: instructor's approval of preliminary research topic outline. View course details in MyPlan: B A 571 B A 572 Research Reports (-4) Independent study in business administration; critical evaluation of business analysis and research methods. Effective communication of ideas emphasized. Methods and content of independent research studies subjected to critical evaluation. Open only to MBA non-thesis students. Prerequisite: B A 571. View course details in MyPlan: B A 572 B A 578 Strategic Management Practicum (2/4, max. 8) Students apply skills learned in the MBA classroom to real world challenges and opportunities facing contemporary enterprises. Under faculty oversight, students partner with host firms on applied learning, consulting-style projects that offer additional development opportunities not available in traditional classrooms. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: B A 578 B A 580 Problems in Microeconomics (4) Study of microeconomic intuition, directed toward Business School Ph.D. students, showing the interconnections between formal, mathematical analysis and the unstructured economic questions posed by the world. Emphasis on setting up problems and examining the intuition behind the analysis of them. Many applications to specific business issues. View course details in MyPlan: B A 580 B A 599 Teaching Effectiveness Seminar (2, max. 4) Prepares doctoral students to serve as a teaching assistant and course instructor. Discusses how to design a syllabus, present material, grade, handle difficult classroom situations, and other activities associated with undergraduate and graduate education. Builds long-term skills for a lifetime of teaching as part of an academic career. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: B A 599 B A 700 Master's Thesis (*-) View course details in MyPlan: B A 700 B A 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) View course details in MyPlan: B A 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022