Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad https://www.shenzhen.gatech.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/281/2020/02/20200218_GT-Shenzhen-promotional-video.mp4 President Ángel Cabrera’s keynote speech video link Georgia Tech – Shenzhen Instagram Shenzhen Overview video: on Youtube In August 2014, Georgia Tech (GT) launched its existing Master of Science (MS) degree program in Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) in Shenzhen, China. Located in Nanshan District, the innovation center of the so-called “Silicon Valley of China”, GT-Shenzhen provides students from all over the world the opportunity to earn a Georgia Tech degree, engage in internship with companies that are a stone’s throw from the classrooms, and gain Chinese language and cultural experiences as well. Situated next to Hong Kong, Shenzhen has the highest GDP per capita among large- and medium-sized cities in mainland China. It is a clean, green city, has a young population, and is very high-tech. Multinational companies that have a presence in Shenzhen include Apple, Cisco Systems, Hitachi, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, Oracle, Phillips, PMC-Sierra, Samsung, Schneider Electric, Siemens, TI, UPS, etc. Building upon the success of the MS ECE program, GT-Shenzhen will offer additional graduate degree programs in Analytics, Computer Science, Environmental Engineering and Industrial Design, starting in Fall 2021. These programs are all approved by the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia, SACSCOC and the Chinese Ministry of Education. GT-Shenzhen enrolls qualified students from China, the US and other countries around the world and serves as a platform for graduate study abroad for all GT students. Even non-GT students can take advantage of the GT presence in Shenzhen: US citizen students who are degree seeking students at other US institutions can apply to become transient students at GT-Shenzhen for one semester, and transfer GT credits back to their home institution. A unique program – the Global Engineering Immersion Program (GEIP) – capitalizes on GT’s academic presences in Atlanta, GA, Lorraine, France, and Shenzhen, China, and encourage students to complete the GT MS degree by studying with GT on 3 different continents – North America, Europe, and Asia in as little as 12 months’ time. GT faculty teach in Shenzhen on rotational assignments. Admission and degree requirements at GT-Shenzhen are the same as those in Atlanta. Students also have the option to spend the last semester in Atlanta or at the GT campus in Lorraine, France, further enhancing their global experiences. The Georgia Institute of Technology is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award baccalaureate, masters, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097, telephone 404-679-4500, http://www.sacscoc.org for questions about the accreditation of the Georgia Institute of Technology. English Version: Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology