Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Campus & City Wellness & Safety Safety & Emergency Preparedness Safety & Emergency Preparedness Chapter Menu Top Anchor Jump to… Expand Navigation Overview Emergency Contact Information Inclement Weather HOYAlert The Livesafe App Public Safety Alerts Overview Anchor Overview Georgetown uses an integrated approach to safety and security on campus and in the surrounding community, coordinating a network designed to provide a safe environment, to prevent problems before they occur, to respond swiftly and effectively when problems arise and to maintain essential services and business operations after a serious incident. In the event of any emergency situation on campus, members of the campus community should call the Georgetown University Police Department at (202) 687.4343. Back to Top Emergency Contact Information Anchor Emergency Contact Information Georgetown University Police Department: (202) 687.4343 Georgetown Emergency Response Medical Service (GERMS): (202) 687.HELP or 687.4357 Chaplain-in-Residence On-Call (During the academic year): (202) 677.0361 Mental Health Emergencies: (202) 687.6985 After Hours: (202) 444.PAGE (444.7243). Ask to speak with the Counseling Center doctor-on-call. Back to Top Inclement Weather Anchor Inclement Weather During inclement weather, please check the university’s operating status online or call our telephone hotline at (202) 687.7669 (SNOW) to get the latest updates on the university’s operating status. This website will also be updated as information is available in the event of emergencies on campus. University Operating Status How to Prepare for Inclement Weather Back to Top HOYAlert Anchor HOYAlert HOYAlert sends messages with guidance in the event of an incident affecting the safety or security of Georgetown’s Main Campus, Medical Center, School of Continuing Studies and Law Center. All current students, faculty and staff are automatically enrolled in HOYAlert. About HOYAlert Update Your HOYAlert Information Back to Top The Livesafe App Anchor The Livesafe App LiveSafe is mobile safety app for GU students, faculty, and staff. App Features: Tips: Anonymously reach GUPD to submit information about suspicious activity, harassment, noise complaints, mental health problems and any other safety issues you may experience. Option to add photos, audio, or video to your message enabling officers to better respond to the issue. SafeWalk: Allows users to add friends, share your location when you leave a location, stay in constant communication with those friends while you walk to your destination, and send a group chat when you reach your destination safely. If you run into trouble you can contact police from within the app. Talk or Chat Options: Two-way communication with GUPD via chat or phone. Instant Emergency Connection: In the case of an emergency where you need immediate assistance you can choose to contact 911, or campus police. If you choose to call or message campus police, location tracking will begin, allowing officers to respond to your exact location. Download the App Back to Top Public Safety Alerts Anchor Public Safety Alerts The Department of Public Safety (DPS) notifies the campus community through Public Safety Alerts (PSAs) when crimes are reported to DPS or the DC Metropolitan Police Department which the university believes represent a threat to its students or employees. Read the Latest PSAs Back to Top Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog