Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × A Scientist Returns to a First Love: Claire Oh Posted on May 25, 2019 By Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Weill Cornell Medicine Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X [MUSIC PLAYING] CLAIRE OH: Being an athlete really taught me a lot about life and science. I've always been fascinated by the human body and how it works. This sparked my interest in biological engineering and ultimately pharmacology, where I could use my math, science, and physics skills to develop new drugs and solve problems in the human body. [MUSIC PLAYING] While I was at Cornell University, I was able to work in a lab that created nanoparticles to target cancer cells. And from my interest in this research, I decided to get a PhD in pharmacology. As a former Cornellian, I knew that Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences would be a good choice. But really drew me to it was the prospects of working side-by-side with world-renowned professors. I met so many amazing people. I also got to work on cutting edge research in Dr. Scheinberg's lab. We worked on enhancing the current T cell based immunotherapies, which is the future of cancer treatment. When I graduate this summer, I'm going to work at a health care advertising company. I'm going to be on the medical team there and serving as a medical writer. As a child, I always loved writing, and I also loved math and science. Weill Cornell gave me a chance to find my path by allowing me to combine my creative side with my science side and exposing me to new therapies that are really changing how cancer is being treated. I'm excited to start my career teaching people about new drugs and developing unique strategies to bring them to market. [MUSIC PLAYING] Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. An athlete, artist, writer and scientist, Claire Oh allowed her disparate passions to guide her career. Her undergraduate bioengineering studies at Cornell University exposed her to the use of nanoparticles to target cancer cells, ultimately inspiring her decision to earn her PhD in pharmacology at Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences. As she looks ahead, Oh considers what it will mean to trade in her pipette for a pen as a medical writer for a healthcare advertising agency. More About graduation 2019 class of 2019 medicine What to watch next 1:59 MyPlaylist Becoming a Doctor – and a Mom: Ngozi Monu 2:11 MyPlaylist Congratulations to the Weill Cornell Medicine Class of 2019 1:54:16 MyPlaylist 151st Cornell University Commencement surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×