Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact MSCI News and Conferences The Department participates in and hosts research conferences and guest lectures- welcoming presenters from all over the world Where to find us The Department of Mathematical Sciences is located in Dunn Hall across from the Library on the main UofM campus. Math Learning Center Free walk-in tutoring service is provided by Educational Support Program (ESP) in Dull Hall 341, with space to work and study. Free online tutoring is also available. Open House The department welcomed new and interested students at the fall Open House. Planning for this day begins now Department advisors are here to help you make informed decisions about your future. Learn more about the undergraduate program in Mathematical Sciences PreviousNext Take Action Student FAQ Cantor Sect Contact Us Nationally Ranked # 127 U.S. News and World Report Mathematics - Graduate View All Rankings Home Math Sciences Department of Mathematical Sciences The Department of Mathematical Sciences is housed in Dunn Hall on the main University of Memphis campus. We offer a full range of academic programs, including the Bachelor of Science, Master of Science, and Ph.D. degrees; an Accelerated Bachelor & Master's Degree, allowing motivated students to obtain both degrees in 5 years instead of the usual 6; a Second Major program which allows students in STEM disciplines to easily obtain a second major in Mathematics; and a thriving Honors Programs. Our faculty is known nationally and internationally for its high-level and prolific research activity, with currently active groups working in Analysis, Combinatorics, Differential Equations, Ergodic Theory, and Applied Statistics. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/5/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.