Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Psychology & Neuroscience Menu About Faculty & Staff Directory Charles A. Weaver III, Ph.D. A. Alexander Beaujean, Ph.D., ABAP Sara L. Dolan, Ph.D. Gary R. Elkins, Ph.D., ABPP Thomas A. Fergus, Ph.D. Annie T. Ginty, Ph.D. Regina Hiraoka, Ph.D. Lara S. Hwa, Ph.D. N. Bradley Keele, Ph.D. Shawn J. Latendresse, Ph.D. Tamara J. Lawrence, Ph.D. Christine A. Limbers, Ph.D. Joaquin N. Lugo, Jr., Ph.D. Karenna Malavanti, Ph.D. Renee Michalski, Ph.D. Meredith H. Palm, Ph.D. Hugh H. Riley, Ph.D. Wade C. Rowatt, Ph.D. Stacy R. Ryan-Pettes, Ph.D. Keith P. Sanford, Ph.D. Sarah A. Schnitker, Ph.D. Michael K. Scullin, Ph.D. Jo-Ann C. Tsang, Ph.D. Elisabeth G. Vichaya, Ph.D. Alisha Wray, Ph.D. Jaime Diaz-Granados, Ph.D. Nancy Ulman Laura Sumrall Debi Ganske Kristi Barrera Events Spring 2021 Speaker Series Contact Us News Jim H. Patton Scholarship in Neuroscience Department's Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Graduate Programs Psy.D. in Clinical Psychology Graduate Program Program Features Degree Requirements Course Descriptions Financial Information Admissions Virtual Open House Psy.D. Program FAQs Contact Us Clinical Psychology Faculty Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data How Diversity is Incorporated into Psy.D. Program Ph.D. In Psychology Graduate Program Admissions Degree Requirements Teaching Opportunities Financial Support Facilities Convenient Location Successful Careers Graduate Student Directory Ph.D. Program FAQs Contact Us How Diversity is Incorporated into Ph.D. Program Undergrad Programs Degrees and Majors Psychology Degree Requirements Psychology Course Descriptions Neuroscience Degree Requirements Neuroscience Course Descriptions What is a pre-major? New Student Seminar: PSY/NSC 1101 Undergraduate FAQs Current Students Academic Advisement Student Ambassador Mentoring Course Offerings by Semester Careers and Jobs Office of Career & Professional Development Careers in Psychology APA Quantitative Psychology SONA Student Organizations Psychology Clinic FAQs Baylor Psychology Clinic (BPC) Response to COVID-19 Baylor Psychology Clinic (BPC) Diversity Statement Research Make a Gift As we continue to exercise caution during this time, some faculty may still be Working from Home. We encourage you to contact us via email with your questions. Graduate Programs: Laura Sumrall@baylor.edu, Graduate Studies Coordinator Undergraduate Advising, including questions about courses, waitlists or other issues: Psychology Majors - Dr. Tamara Lawrence@baylor.edu, Psychology Advisor Neuroscience Majors - Dr. Karenna Malavanti@baylor.edu, Neuroscience Advisor Prospective undergraduate students - Dr. Hugh Riley@baylor.edu, Undergraduate Program Director The Baylor Psychology Clinic (located at 801 Washington Ave.) - Kristi Barrera@baylor.edu, Clinic Office Manager The Psychology and Neuroscience Office, BSB B.309, is open Monday-Friday from 8 a.m.-12 p.m. and 1 - 5 p.m. I am always available if I can help: Charles Weaver@baylor.edu -CW Department of Psychology and Neuroscience This is a vibrant and busy department, with approximately 1,000 undergraduate majors, 60 doctoral students, 25 full-time faculty, and three full-time staff members. We offer a Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Arts degree in Psychology as well as a Bachelor of Science degree in Neuroscience. We offer doctoral degrees in Psychology (Ph.D.), with tracks in Behavioral Neuroscience, Social Psychology, and General Experimental Psychology, and an APA-Accredited Clinical Psychology (Psy.D.). About the Department Department's Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Undergraduate Programs Psychology and neuroscience are comprehensive and versatile majors, providing educational foundation for advanced study in any field. Click here for an informational video for prospective undergraduate students. Psychology Psychology is the study of the mind and behavior. It seeks to understand the origins and processes of thought and emotion by drawing from biological, social, and cultural aspects of the human experience. Neuroscience Neuroscience is the study of the nervous system with a special focus on the brain. As a multidisciplinary field, neuroscience draws from biology, psychology, chemistry and other areas to develop a thorough understanding of the nervous system and related disorders. From molecules and genes to behavior and motor skills, neuroscience spans the full range of the nervous system. Undergraduates Graduate Programs The department offers two doctoral degrees: Doctor of Psychology (Psy.D.) in Clinical Psychology and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Psychology. Psy.D. in Clinical Psychology The Psy.D. degree prepares students as practitioner-scientists in clinical psychology. The program is fully accredited by the American Psychological Association. Formal course work is integrated with practicum and research experiences to produce highly qualified practitioner-scientists in this area of specialization. Ph.D. In Psychology The Ph.D. program in psychology prepares students for university teaching/research, and applied positions in universities, hospitals, industry, or government. The program has three training tracks: Behavioral Neuroscience, Social Psychology, and General Experimental Psychology. Psychology Clinic The Baylor Psychology Clinic is a teaching clinic that provides assessment and therapy services to Waco and the surrounding areas. Graduate Studies Psychology & Neuroscience News Record-setting 13 Fulbright recipients top list of student scholar honors for 2022 — so far Apr. 26, 2022 Three years ago, Baylor set a school record when seven Bears earned prestigious Fulbright scholarships — part of the nation’s flagship program for international graduate study and education. This year, Baylor students are blowing that record out of the water. An incredible 13 BU students have already been named Fulbright recipients for 2022 — a number … The Meaning of R1 Apr. 6, 2022 Baylor's R1 status is far more than an elite club or glossy résumé item. It positions Baylor to have a significant impact around the world. Baylor faculty explain what that means to them in Baylor Magazine. Baylor Researchers Receive $2.7 Million John Templeton Foundation Grant to Study Higher Education Virtue Formation Feb. 8, 2022 Grant will fund longitudinal study of students at centers and institutes for Christian study, secular universities, and religiously affiliated universities. Baylor earns prestigious R1 status; here’s what that means for BU Jan. 7, 2022 In mid-December, Baylor received a surprise early Christmas present: the attainment of R1 status, three years earlier than expected. “R1” has been a big buzzword around campus for the past few years — but what exactly is it? And, perhaps more importantly, what does it mean for Baylor moving forward? First off, “R1” is shorthand … Read More News Upcoming Events Jun 1 2022 Apply for alternative loans by this date for upcoming fall/spring semesters. Most alternative loans require 4-6 weeks of processing time. You should determine your eligibility and apply prior to bills being sent to allow adequate processing time. Jun 2 2022 Summer 2022 Minimester term ends/exams Jun 7 2022 Last day to register or add classes for Summer 2022 Session 1 Jun 8 2022 Last day to drop a Summer 2022 Session 1 class without a "W" More Events Alumni Profiles “I graduated in 2011 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Neuroscience. Currently, I am the head of Biorepository at the START Cancer Center in San Antonio, TX. I have been involved in several projects that led to co-authorships, including research on various types of cancers, from breast cancer to chordoma, in a preclinical setting using Patient-Derived Xenograft (PDX) models. My time at Baylor has not only expanded my knowledge in Neuroscience, but has also encouraged me to apply my education in a dynamic way. I'm thankful and proud to call Baylor home!” Melissa Rundle Neuroscience, Undergraduate Program “Roshini Kumar, MRC, LPC is a licensed professional counselor, clinical therapist and Baylor alum! She currently works in the outpatient psychology and cochlear implant clinics at Children's Health, and in her private practice clinic in Dallas, TX. She received her B.A. in psychology and studio art at Baylor University, while in the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core. Roshini went on to earn her M.R.C. (master's in rehabilitation counseling psychology) from UT Southwestern Medical Center, with an emphasis in psychosocial functioning of individuals with hearing loss and cochlear implants. She has been published in Ear and Hearing for her work with children with cochlear implants and has participated in media interviews to share psychological education and therapy tools for anxiety, depression, and ADHD. Roshini's future research interests examine the relationship between mood and exercise movement. Roshini credits Baylor University for introducing her to several facets of psychology that fuel her career passions today.” Roshini Kumar Psychology, Undergraduate Program “Dr. Tom Carpenter completed his doctorate at Baylor in 2015 and immediately moved into a professorship at Seattle Pacific University. Tom credits the hard work of Baylor faculty in shaping his growth and success. 'Baylor is an unusual place. On one hand, most faculty are student centered, investing more time and care into their students than they might get at other institutions. On the other hand, faculty produce high-quality research at high rates. It's an impressive combination that provides a phenomenal opportunity to students.” Dr. Tom Carpenter Psychology, Ph.D. Program Would you like to be featured on Alumni Profiles? Please email Psychology_Neuroscience@baylor.edu for more information. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Psychology & Neuroscience Psychology and Neuroscience One Bear Place 97334 Baylor Sciences Building Suite B.309 Waco, TX 76706 254.710.2961 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Faculty & Staff Directory Charles A. Weaver III, Ph.D. A. Alexander Beaujean, Ph.D., ABAP Sara L. Dolan, Ph.D. Gary R. Elkins, Ph.D., ABPP Thomas A. Fergus, Ph.D. Annie T. Ginty, Ph.D. Regina Hiraoka, Ph.D. Lara S. Hwa, Ph.D. N. Bradley Keele, Ph.D. Shawn J. Latendresse, Ph.D. Tamara J. Lawrence, Ph.D. Christine A. Limbers, Ph.D. Joaquin N. Lugo, Jr., Ph.D. Karenna Malavanti, Ph.D. Renee Michalski, Ph.D. Meredith H. Palm, Ph.D. Hugh H. Riley, Ph.D. Wade C. Rowatt, Ph.D. Stacy R. Ryan-Pettes, Ph.D. Keith P. Sanford, Ph.D. Sarah A. Schnitker, Ph.D. Michael K. Scullin, Ph.D. Jo-Ann C. Tsang, Ph.D. Elisabeth G. Vichaya, Ph.D. Alisha Wray, Ph.D. Jaime Diaz-Granados, Ph.D. Nancy Ulman Laura Sumrall Debi Ganske Kristi Barrera Events Spring 2021 Speaker Series Contact Us News Jim H. Patton Scholarship in Neuroscience Department's Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Graduate Programs Psy.D. in Clinical Psychology Graduate Program Program Features Degree Requirements Course Descriptions Financial Information Admissions Virtual Open House Psy.D. Program FAQs Contact Us Clinical Psychology Faculty Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data How Diversity is Incorporated into Psy.D. Program Ph.D. In Psychology Graduate Program Admissions Degree Requirements Teaching Opportunities Financial Support Facilities Convenient Location Successful Careers Graduate Student Directory Ph.D. Program FAQs Contact Us How Diversity is Incorporated into Ph.D. Program Undergrad Programs Degrees and Majors Psychology Degree Requirements Psychology Course Descriptions Neuroscience Degree Requirements Neuroscience Course Descriptions What is a pre-major? New Student Seminar: PSY/NSC 1101 Undergraduate FAQs Current Students Academic Advisement Student Ambassador Mentoring Course Offerings by Semester Careers and Jobs Office of Career & Professional Development Careers in Psychology APA Quantitative Psychology SONA Student Organizations Psychology Clinic FAQs Baylor Psychology Clinic (BPC) Response to COVID-19 Baylor Psychology Clinic (BPC) Diversity Statement Research Make a Gift