Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel Financial Aid FAQs Please see below for answers to frequently asked questions. Click on the links below to jump to a specific section or click on individual questions to see each response. Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Tuition and Cost Loan Programs International Students Financial Aid Eligibility Financial Aid Office Resources Joint Degree and Exchange Programs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Does Tuck award scholarships in the second year? Students who do not receive scholarships in their first year should not expect to receive scholarships in their second year. That said, there a couple of opportunities based on academic excellence in the first year. Does Tuck participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program? Tuck participates in the Yellow Ribbon Program (YRP) without limitation on the number of veterans enrolled and at a maximum level of $26,000 in funding for the 2021-22 academic year. This means someone who is 100 percent benefit eligible under the Post-9/11 GI Bill can receive a maximum of $26,042.81 per the annual cap from the VA, $26,000 from Tuck and an additional $26,000 from the VA under the YRP in an academic year. We are proud to support our veterans. How can I be considered for a Forté Fellowship? There is no separate application process for the Forté fellowship. Recipients are chosen as part of the scholarship awarding process with the offer of admission. ^ top Tuition and Cost How is the cost of attendance defined? The cost of attendance is defined by the Higher Education Act and specifies the types of allowable costs for an academic year based on full-time enrollment for a nine-month academic year. How does Tuck arrive at the cost of attendance? The allowable costs are based on a number of factors. Some of these costs are set by the school, such as tuition, mandatory fees, health insurance, on-campus housing, and board. Other costs such as off-campus housing, books, supplies, and miscellaneous living expenses are based on estimates obtained from current students, local real estate, and the consumer price index for the Northeast region of the U.S. Because of this, the actual cost for each individual will vary based on their individual lifestyle choices. What is not included in the cost of attendance? The Higher Education Act does not include allowances for consumer debt, such as auto loans, credit cards, and undergraduate student loans. What is the miscellaneous component included on the student budget? These are typical living expenses that you incur daily. Examples include, but are not limited to, groceries, dining out, clothing, and recreation. We realize that some people live off-campus so there is an allowance for vehicle maintenance, insurance, and transportation expenses. This does not include an allowance for extensive travel. Is there an increased cost of attendance for students with dependents? Federal regulations do not allow living expenses for a student’s partner and dependents to be included in the cost of attendance. You should plan to use your personal resources to cover the additional cost of approximately $5,000 per additional family member. How much will the global requirement cost? Costs will vary depending on the program you participate in to fulfill the requirement. Students may be required to pay for international airfare and personal incidentals. ^ top Loan Programs What is an acceptable amount of student loan debt? The acceptable amount of debt will vary based on a student’s personal, professional, and financial goals. Each year approximately 45 – 50 percent of the full cost of attendance is covered by students’ personal funds. This is supplemented by scholarships and loans. How long does it take to pay back student loans? This will vary depending on the types of loans you borrow. Tuck institutional loans are historically paid in full in an average of three to five years. Does the Financial Aid Office provide support for making a decision about federal versus private Education Loans? At Tuck, we do not have a preferred lender list. We feel it is the student’s choice to borrow either a federal loan or a private educational loan. We determine eligibility first for the Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan. We are happy to discuss the differences of each type of loan with students to help make the most informative financial decision. Does Tuck offer loan forgiveness? Tuck does not offer a loan forgiveness program. Some employers may offer loan forgiveness as part of your compensation package. The federal loan program offers various repayment plans that may allow for some loan forgiveness, though this is subject to change. What if I change my mind about borrowing loan funds? Just because you apply for a loan does not mean that you are committed to borrowing the full loan amount. We can work with you to decline or reduce the loan at any point during the academic year. ^ top International Students Does Tuck offer funding for international students that does not require a U.S. cosigner? There are a number of options for international students that do not require a U.S. co-signer. The maximum amount available is determined by a needs analysis using the information provided on the international financial aid application. Students should not expect to borrow to the full cost of attendance. Should I submit proof of funding when I apply for admission to Tuck? No. Tuck offers admission to the most qualified candidates without regard to their financial circumstances. Once enrolled, students will be required to provide proof of funding for the two years of the MBA program. ^ top Financial Aid Eligibility Why do financial aid packages differ? At Tuck you are an individual with specific financial needs. There are a number of factors that determine which loans a student may be eligible to borrow including an individual’s financial profile and loan requirements. Why is there no Federal Graduate PLUS loan or private education loan in my eligibility offer? U.S. citizens and permanent residents are eligible to apply for funding up to the full cost of education less other aid from a Federal Graduate PLUS loan or a private education loan. These are student originated loans which require a credit approval. The amount borrowed by a student is a personal choice based on financial resources and should be carefully considered to limit the overall debt burden. We are available to answer any questions you may have as you decide which type of loan and amount is right for you. What is the difference between financial aid and scholarship? At Tuck, we consider financial aid and scholarships to be two separate items. Scholarships are awarded to students who will significantly contribute to Tuck’s distinctly immersive learning community and are not paid back. Financial aid is money that a student borrows from the government and/or private lenders which the student will pay back upon graduation. You will be notified of scholarship decisions during the admissions process, while financial aid options are released at a later date. All students are eligible to apply for financial aid in the form of loans. ^ top Financial Aid Office Resources Where do I get the most current information on financial aid? Financing options and federal regulations are subject to change at any time. The best resource for the most current information is the Tuck Financial Aid Office. They can be reached at 603-646-9743 or tuck.financial.aid@dartmouth.edu. What kind of assistance can the Tuck Financial Aid Office provide to students? The Financial Aid Office works with students to identify potential sources of financial assistance including scholarships, fellowships, and loans. We can guide you through the financial aid process by providing financial counseling in the following areas: assistance in developing budgets, tips on managing living/educational expenses, information regarding loan repayment, and other student-related financial matters. Are financial aid professionals also tax professionals? Financial Aid Office staff are not tax professionals. We encourage students to consult a professional tax advisor for tax-related questions or visit the IRS website. Are there opportunities to earn an income while I am enrolled? There are some paid opportunities in the second year such as research assistant, teaching assistant, fellows, and ambassadors. Students will learn more about these opportunities during their first year. ^ top Joint Degree and Exchange Programs What is the cost to participate in an exchange program? Students pay Tuck tuition and cover all travel costs to and from the host institution, accommodations, meals, and incidentals. Students are still eligible for their Tuck financial aid to be applied to tuition and direct costs. I am interested in pursuing a Dartmouth and Tuck joint degree program. What are my next steps for financial aid? The financial aid process will differ depending upon the program. Our advice is to contact us directly. I am interested in pursuing dual-degree program with an institution other than Dartmouth. Am I still eligible for financial aid at Tuck? You will apply for and receive financial aid at the school in which you are enrolled for that term or semester. Your financial aid, including scholarship, will be prorated based on the time you are attending Tuck. ^ top Apply Now Connect With Us Take a 360° Tour of Campus Helpful Links Application Materials Additional Info for Applicants Financing Your Degree Admissions FAQ Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Tuck Ambassadors Tuck on Social Tuck 360: MBA Blog Tuck’s 2022-2023 Essay Questions Tuition and Costs Student budgeting information, including tuition and other costs. Scholarships and Fellowships Tuck's scholarships and fellowships are made possible through the generosity of alumni, corporations, and nonprofit foundations. Loan Programs U.S. federal loans, Tuck institutional and international loans, and private bank loans are among the funding sources available to students. Online Resources Information for students seeking outside opportunities to fund their Tuck education. Financial Aid FAQs Answers to commonly-asked questions about financing your Tuck education. Financial Aid Applications Forms and information for U.S. citizens, permanent residents, and international applicants who seek educational loans. Applying to Tuck Admissions Home 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy