Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News UC Clermont students, alumni rally for Afghan refugees February 21, 2022 On a chilly, gray Saturday morning in November, more than a dozen lawyers, paralegals and students quietly gathered in a small computer lab in the University of Cincinnati’s Teachers College. Some were experts in immigration law; others, students and alumni of UC Clermont’s paralegal program. All answered a call for volunteers to assist people they would likely never meet, in need half a world away — and showed up, ready to work. UC Clermont aviation student charts new course March 9, 2022 Born in Dayton, Ohio, Seth Cooper’s dream of becoming a pilot started literally in the shadow of aviation pioneers — as a child playing under the Wright brothers’ statue in Carillon Park. UC Clermont to hold Express Application Event April 7 March 16, 2022 UC Clermont will hold a free on-campus Express Application Event Thursday, April 7. The last day to apply for admission to the college for fall semester 2022 is July 1. Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. UC Clermont celebrates 50th anniversary May 19, 2022 Event: September 22, 2022 4:30 PM On Sept. 25, 1972, Clermont General and Technical College opened its doors with 97 full-time and 184 part-time students. Five decades later, UC Clermont College (the name was officially changed in 1987) boasts more than 2,300 students and 60 academic programs, including associate, bachelor, certificate and transfer pathways. The college currently serves students in 41 states and six countries. The college’s 50th anniversary festivities will culminate in a celebration event on campus Sept. 22. The Power of Vision: 5 Years of Momentum April 28, 2022 The last five years rank among UC’s best. Take a look at some of our recent accomplishments and proudest moments since President G. Pinto began his term as UC’s 30th President. UC Clermont to hold Express Application Event May 24 April 27, 2022 UC Clermont will hold a free on-campus Express Application Event Tuesday, May 24. The last day to apply for admission to the college for fall semester 2022 is July 1. UC to celebrate record-breaking class at spring commencement April 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati will recognize a record 7,080 graduates at its spring commencement during four ceremonies on Friday and Saturday at Fifth Third Arena. Earth Day is every day for UC sustainability stewards April 21, 2022 With national Earth Day celebrated on April 22, events across all four campuses are bringing the awareness of UC's green energy initiatives and the improved built environment to light. While Earth Day was created in 1970, today a growing group of sustainability stewards all across UC continue to carry out the original Earth Day mission: from awareness to action. UC Clermont to host Allied Health Career Fair May 19 April 18, 2022 Event: May 19, 2022 4:00 PM Students and prospective students are invited to explore the numerous careers available in health care during UC Clermont’s free Allied Health Career Fair Thursday, May 19, from 4-6 p.m. President Pinto celebrates talented UC community during State of... April 15, 2022 Faculty, staff and students from UC gathered online and inside Probasco Auditorium for President Neville G. Pinto's April 14 State of the University Address. UC business grad goes viral on TikTok April 14, 2022 Jeff Bezos’ $165 million purchase of a Los Angeles-area mansion and TikTok helped University of Cincinnati alumnus John Eringman kick-start his career as a full-time content creator. On campus one day, online the next: HyFlex classrooms in high... April 6, 2022 While the COVID-19 pandemic took online learning to a new level, UC Clermont now offers students the next iteration: the ability to choose to attend class in person or online on any given day — combined with the technology to feel like they are in the classroom in real time, from anywhere. UC Clermont to hold Express Application Event April 7 March 16, 2022 UC Clermont will hold a free on-campus Express Application Event Thursday, April 7. The last day to apply for admission to the college for fall semester 2022 is July 1. UC Online partners with City of Cincinnati to advance employee... March 14, 2022 The University of Cincinnati and City of Cincinnati partner to offer city employees, their spouses, and dependents access to UC’s online degree programs at a reduced cost in the form of scholarships. UC Clermont aviation student charts new course March 9, 2022 Born in Dayton, Ohio, Seth Cooper’s dream of becoming a pilot started literally in the shadow of aviation pioneers — as a child playing under the Wright brothers’ statue in Carillon Park. Artist puts surreal landscapes on display in UC Clermont Art... February 28, 2022 Event: March 29, 2022 12:00 PM The exhibit “Of Itself So” by Clint Woods, featuring surreal natural landscapes, will be on display in the UC Clermont Art Gallery through March 29, when a closing reception will be held from noon-1 p.m. The exhibition and reception are free and open to the public. UC Clermont students, alumni rally for Afghan refugees February 21, 2022 On a chilly, gray Saturday morning in November, more than a dozen lawyers, paralegals and students quietly gathered in a small computer lab in the University of Cincinnati’s Teachers College. Some were experts in immigration law; others, students and alumni of UC Clermont’s paralegal program. All answered a call for volunteers to assist people they would likely never meet, in need half a world away — and showed up, ready to work. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top