Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links OUC Menu Main Nav OUC Contact Back Back Close People Our Work Overview Design Marketing News & Media Relations Photography Publications Social Media Guidelines Resources Social Media Fellows Social Fellows Application Humans of Boston College Humans of BC Nomination Videography Web Design & Development Digital Advertising Boston College Magazine For Journalists Overview Policies Names in the News BC Faculty Experts Lisa Sowle Cahill Andrea Vicini, S.J. Shu-Yi Oei Serazio, Michael Samuel Richardson Eric Dearing Richard McGowan S.J. Ray Madoff Jeremy Shakun Mark Bradshaw Mary Ellen Carter James Lubben John Makransky Thomas H. Groome Fishman, Donald Sienkiewicz, Matt Kevin R. Powers Lisa Goodman Noah P. Snyder John E. Ebel Anderson, James E. Grubb, Michael Can Erbil Ireland, Peter Murphy, Robert Aleksandar (Sasha) Tomic Ana M. Martínez Alemán James Repetti Diane Ring Natana J. Delong-Bas Michael Pratt Brad Harrington Zine Magubane C. Shawn McGuffey Sharlene Hesse-Biber Charles Derber Summer Sherburne Hawkins Jessica Black Theresa Betancourt Alicia Munnell Hosffman Ospino James W. Morris Mary Ann Hinsdale, IHM Richard Gaillardetz Sara Cordes Liane Young Ellen Winner Peter Gray Kay L. Schlozman Robert S. Ross Jonathan Laurence Marc Landy David Hopkins Dennis Hale James Cronin Seth Jacobs Cynthia L. Lyerly Arissa Oh James O'Toole Devin Pendas Oliver P. Rafferty, S.J. Heather Cox Richardson Alan Rogers Jane M. Flanagan Pamela J. Grace Alison O. Marshall Colleen Simonelli Patricia A. Tabloski Judith Vessey Catherine Yetter Read Sheila Tucker Mary Cronin John Gallaugher Gerald Kane Franziska Seraphim James Bernauer, S.J. Ruth Langer Robert J. Savage Hwang, Ingu Paulo Barrozo Sharon Beckman Robert Bloom Mark Brodin George D. Brown Michael Cassidy Kent Greenfield Renee Jones Daniel Kanstroom Cathleen Kaveny Joseph Liu Daniel Lyons Patricia McCoy David Olson Zygmunt Plater Brian Quinn Francine Sherman Catharine Wells David Wirth Alfred Chueh-Chin Yen Judith Clair John Fisher Henrik Hagtvedt Bradford Hudson Hristina Nikolova Elizabeth Kensinger Eva Garroutte Ann W. Burgess Karen Arnold David Blustein Henry Braun Susan Bruce Marilyn Cochran-Smith Julia DeVoy Maria Estela Brisk Andy Hargreaves Jacqueline Lerner Rebekah Levine Coley Belle Liang Rebecca Lowenhaupt Julie Paquette MacEvoy Katherine McNeill Laura O'Dwyer Mariela Páez Paul Poteat C. Patrick Proctor David Scanlon Dennis Shirley Mary Walsh Richard Kearney Alan L. Kafka Gail C. Kineke Darren Kisgen Jeffrey Pontiff Jonathan Reuter Ronnie Sadka Philip E. Strahan Dean Hashimoto David Twomey Miles, John "Jack" Nadia N. Abuelezam Chahrour, Ryan Jeffrey Cohen Hiba Hafiz Mary Ann Chirba Cal Halvorsen Leonard Kostovetsky Ali Kadivar Steven Koh Rachel Spooner Kirsten Davison Daniel Farbman Landrigan, Philip J. Krupenkin, Masha Juliet Schor Sankaran, Chandini Steinberg, Laura J. Betty Lai Nosal, Jaromir Stephen Shay R. Shep Melnick James Smith Francesco D’Acunto Bethune, Brian Ryan Williams Policies & Guidelines Overview Boston College Editorial Style Guidelines Graphic Identity System Boston College Websites Typography for Print Colors for Print Boston College Subbrands Safety Guidelines Signage Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Graphic Identity System Home Policies & Guidelines Graphic Identity System Policies & Guidelines Boston College Editorial Style Guidelines Graphic Identity System Boston College Websites Typography for Print Colors for Print Boston College Subbrands Safety Guidelines Signage The Boston College Seal The Boston College seal is the central logo of the University. The current seal has been in use since 1934. At its center is a shield that contains the seal’s major elements: two crowns and a badge, a book, and three mountains. The crowns are derived from the three crowns in the coat of arms of Boston, England, for which Boston, Massachusetts is named. In the BC seal, two crowns are used, with the traditional badge of the Society of Jesus replacing the third crown. Below the crowns is an open book. 4-color seal (cmyk) Gold seal Black seal Boston College’s motto, “Ever to Excel,” is written in Greek on the pages of the open book. The three mountains are the “trimount,” which comes from Tremont, the early name for Boston. Below the shield, a scroll appears inscribed with the Latin words “Religioni et Bonis Artibus.” The outside ring of the seal includes the name of the university in Latin and the date of its founding, 1863. The Boston College seal should appear on all documents produced by the University, on either the front or back cover or on both. It should appear in black, gold (PMS 874), or full color (4-color process plus PMS 874). There should be no manipulation of the seal, and it should only be produced at full resolution for the highest quality reproduction. The seal should be used no smaller than 3/4 inch in diameter in printed publications. download seals The Boston College Wordmark The Boston College wordmark is the official graphic treatment of the words “Boston College.” When treated graphically (as an image, not in the document text), the words “Boston College” should appear as a logotype on one or two lines as shown below in black, gold, or reversed to white. The wordmark may not be altered or changed in any way. The only graphic the wordmark should be paired with is the seal. See the official paired treatment in the following section. To maintain the specific relationships between the letters, EPS files of the logotype are available. Do not attempt to recreate them using actual type. One-line wordmark in black One-line wordmark in gold One-line wordmark in white Two-line wordmark in black Two-line wordmark in gold Two-line wordmark in white download wordmarks Please note: The seal and the name “Boston College” are registered trademarks, and reproduction of the wordmark alone or together with other elements of the Graphic Identity System is for official Boston College use only, in accordance with the University policy on use of the Boston College indicia. (This file is an Adobe Acrobat® PDF formatted file. To view it, you will need to download the free Adobe Acrobat file reader.) Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College