Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V About UNLV About UNLV About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close About UNLV menu About UNLV About UNLV Home Mission Leadership Facts and Stats Highlights Our History University Statements and Compliance close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps Our University Since our first classes were held on campus in 1957, UNLV has transformed itself from a small branch college into a thriving urban research institution. Along the way, our urban university has become an indispensable resource in one of the country's fastest-growing and most enterprising cities. Top 3% and Moving Up. UNLV attains highest status as a research university. Top 3% and Moving Up. UNLV attains highest status as a research university. Vision and Mission Our mission is for UNLV’s diverse faculty, students, staff, and alumni to promote community well-being and individual achievement through education, research, scholarship, creative activities, and clinical services. We stimulate economic development and diversification, foster a climate of innovation, promote health, and enrich the cultural vitality of the communities that we serve. Our vision is that by 2025, UNLV will be recognized as a top tier public university in research, education, and community impact. Read more University Leadership Keith E. Whitfield, Ph.D., joined UNLV as its 11th president on Aug. 24. An experienced university administrator and prolific scholar, President Whitfield is a former university provost and psychologist with expertise on the social, psychological, and cultural factors related to cognition and healthy aging. Learn more Diversity Here at UNLV, we have come together and created one of the most affirmative and dynamic academic environments in the country. UNLV sits in the top spot in U.S. News & World Report’s annual listing of the nation’s most diverse universities for undergraduates. The university has ranked in the top ten since the rankings debuted more than a decade ago. We continue to show our commitment to serving our wonderfully diverse population and building the future for Las Vegas and Nevada. Read more Land Acknowledgement Free Speech As a public university, UNLV is committed to upholding and protecting freedom of expression. This includes constitutionally protected rights of free speech and assembly, regardless of content. Learn more Highlights From creating community partnerships and advancing student achievement, to promoting research, scholarship, and creative activity, we work hard to achieve our goal of becoming a top 100 American research university. Read more Facts and Stats (2021) 25,412 undergraduate students 4,237 graduate students 1,054 professional students 86% Nevadans 66.9% minorities 50% of our students will be the first in their family to earn a four-year degree 1 in 3 Students are first in their family to attend college 135,036 alumni 255 Undergraduate and graduate majors degree and certificate programs 81,148 Alumni who live and work in Nevada 1st Four-year institution in Nevada to reach Hispanic enrollment of 25 percent 99 Cultural, ethnic, and religious-based student organizations that call UNLV home More Facts and Stats University Policies and Statements Policies Policies Statements Statements Explore Our History Thanks to its innovative frontier spirit, UNLV has kept pace with one of the country's fastest-growing and most enterprising cities. Our History » The Vallen Legacy Set in Stone The Vallen Legacy Set in Stone The Return of the Holiday Card The Return of the Holiday Card The Back Story: Pioneer Wall The Back Story: Pioneer Wall The Back Story: Premier UNLV The Back Story: Premier UNLV Dipping Through the Years Dipping Through the Years The Barrick Behind UNLV's Museum and Lecture Series The Barrick Behind UNLV's Museum and Lecture Series Commencement All Around Town Commencement All Around Town The Making of a Med School The Making of a Med School More Stories Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV