Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Visiting Student Resources for SMU Students Frequently Asked Questions ☰ SMU Enrollment Services Undergraduate Visiting Student Services Undergraduate Visiting Student Services Undergraduate Visiting Student Services assists students who wish to enroll in SMU courses for credit, but do not intend to pursue an SMU degree. We work with: Domestic and international students who are visiting from another four-year university and are in good standing with their home universities. Domestic high school graduates who want to earn course credits before seeking a degree at another university or college. Note: Applicants who have been denied undergraduate admission as a degree seeking student or who have an application pending are not eligible for admission as a visiting student. College graduates who wish to take prerequisite courses for graduate and professional schools. Non-SMU students who wish to participate in SMU programs such as SMU-in-Taos, SMU Abroad and SMU Intersessions. Students who have transferred to the Dallas area and, with permission from their home universities, wish to finish their degrees by taking SMU courses and transferring back credit. Members of the Dallas community who wish to take SMU courses for personal enrichment. University employees, their spouses, and/or their dependents who wish to take courses using tuition benefits. NOTES: Students admitted under the University's First-Year Spring Entry program are not eligible to attend SMU as a visiting student. For more information about SMU's Spring Entry Program, visit the First-Year Spring Entry Program website. If you intend to take graduate level courses as a visiting student, please contact the graduate school directly. Visiting Student Application Process Visiting students are admitted through the Division of Enrollment Services and are eligible to register on a space-available basis. Admission as a visiting student does not qualify a student for admission to a degree program at SMU. Application Instructions Complete the online application. Submit the $75 non-refundable application fee. The fee can be paid using the RO Marketplace. Request an official transcript from each school you have attended. Email to: visitingstudent@smu.edu, or Mail to: Undergraduate Visiting Student Services Southern Methodist University P.O. Box 750181 Dallas, TX 75205-0181 Note: All international transcripts must be translated and professionally evaluated. For a list of accepted foreign evaluation services, click here. Request to have the SMU Good Standing Form completed by the most recent institution you attended. Applications are not reviewed until all required materials are received. NOTE: Applications take up to one week to process and must be received at least five business days before the first day of the semester in order to be considered for admission. Admitted Students Once accepted as a visiting student, you must: Submit proof of meningitis immunization and completed SMU Health Center form. Read and agree to the Rights and Responsibilities Agreement. Meet all prerequisites for courses in which you expect to enroll. Register yourself on your given enrollment appointment date. Please see FAQ for steps on enrollment. Pay all tuition and fees by the payment deadline. Maintain a cumulative grade point average of 2.000 or better in order to continue your studies at SMU. Failure to maintain the appropriate GPA standard may result in removal from the program. Continuing Visiting Students If you are already enrolled as a visiting student at SMU and wish to continue your studies, you may register yourself for the upcoming semester when open enrollment period begins. Open enrollment for Summer Sessions and Fall Semester begins April 25th If you need assistance, please contact Undergraduate Visiting Student Services at visitingstudent@smu.edu or 214-768-2472. Course Schedule Information To view the schedule of classes, visit my.SMU and click on “Class Search” to see all the classes for a particular course subject and the individual course number for each class. To view the course description, click on the section number for the class. The course description will be at the bottom of the panel. A 701 section number designates an evening class. Summer course information is available at June+July in Dallas. MayTerm and JanTerm course information is available at SMU Intersessions. Tuition and Fees Tuition is due at the time of registration. After you register, you are sent a registration confirmation with a follow-up email detailing instructions for paying tuition online. You may pay by MasterCard, Discover, or American Express. If you pay by credit card, a 2.75% service fee (will increase to 2.85%, effective June 1, 2022) will be added to each transaction. You may also pay by e-check (electronic check); no service fee is charged. SMU employees should refer to Human Resources to learn more about using tuition benefits. Tuition and Fees For a complete listing of tuition and fees, please see the Bursar’s Cost of Attendance webpage. Payment Plan SMU offers payment plans through TuitionPay by Sallie Mae. Visiting students are eligible for the four-installment plan during fall and spring semesters and the three-installment plan during summer term. There is a nonrefundable enrollment fee involved in signing up for a payment plan. Further information can be found on the Bursar’s Office website. NOTE: Visiting students are not eligible for financial aid or veterans’ benefits. Auditing a Course With instructor approval, available classroom space, payment of an audit fee* and approval of the University Registrar, a person may audit a credit course. The audit fee is less than the course tuition, but an auditor has certain restrictions: Participation is restricted, including classroom recitation Handouts, tests, and other materials may not be available Homework, papers, tests, and other assignments may not be collected or graded Laboratory privileges are not included Progress grades and a final grade will not be provided An academic record and certification of participation will not be provided Audit fees are non-refundable To audit a course, complete an Audit Enrollment Request Form. Audit Fee $310 per credit hour. *An enrolled undergraduate student taking 12 or more hours may audit one, three-hour course at no additional charge! Note: Bacterial-Meningitis Immunization Texas State Law effective January 1, 2012: Any entering student at a Texas college or university who is under the age of 22 years must be immunized before attending classes and must have received the vaccine within the preceding 5 years and at least 10 days prior to the first day of classes or provide exemption information. Enrollment holds will be placed for students who do not comply. Please refer to and download the required forms by going to the Health Center website. On the top of the page click on Forms. Select "Health History Form" from the drop down. Completed forms are submitted directly to the Health Center. Contact information is found at the top of the form or on the Health Center website. Enrollment Services Home Admission Bursar Financial Aid International Student & Scholar Services Registrar Transfer Students Undergraduate Visiting Student Services Financial Responsibility & Confidentiality Statements Blanton Building Veterans Student Rights and Responsibilities Apply Now! SMU Summer & Intersessions Term Dates Fall Semester: August 24 - December 19, 2020 JanTerm Session: January 7-22, 2021 Spring Semester: January 25 - May 15,2021 Summer Semester: June 1 - August 4, 2021 Contact Us Undergraduate Visiting Student Services Laura Lee Blanton Building 6185 Airline Rd. Suite 101 Dallas, TX 75205 214-768-4272 Elizabeth Neel Coordinator Phone: 214-768-4272 Email: eneel@smu.edu Mailing Address Undergraduate Visiting Student Services SMU P.O. Box 750181 Dallas, TX 75275-0181 Fax: 214-768-2507 Attention: Undergraduate Visiting Student Services Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share