Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Georgia Tech Community Diversity Home » Why Scheller? » Georgia Tech Community » Diversity Menu Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is nestled in a city that has a rich history in civil and human rights. At the Scheller College, we embrace diversity as one of the foundations of both successful business strategy and a world-class educational experience. We share Georgia Tech’s dedication and commitment to promoting the understanding and appreciation of human differences and the constructive expression of ideas. We welcome individuals of different race, ethnicity, culture, religion, language, socioeconomic status, citizenship, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, and physical ability. And we celebrate the interactions that occur when students bring a diversity of life experience into the classroom. Scheller College values and respects the diversity in its myriad forms represented throughout the College. Scheller has a long-standing commitment to recruiting, supporting, and advancing women and professionals of color across all of its programs. Diversity in all of its forms is one of Georgia Tech's greatest strengths. We are committed to creating a culture of 'inclusive excellence' at the Scheller College where all individuals feel invested and engaged in our business school's mission. – Dean Maryam Alavi Diversity and Inclusion at Scheller College Georgia Tech Institute of Diversity’s 2017 Faces of Inclusive Excellence report has recognized 10 Scheller College of Business faculty, staff, and students who are committed to advancing a culture of inclusive excellence at Georgia Tech and who have distinguished themselves in their research, teaching, and/or service. Partner Organizations ADVANCE Program Georgia Tech’s ADVANCE Program builds and sustains an inter-college network of professors who are world-class researchers and role models to support the community and advancement of women and minorities in academia. The ADVANCE Program’s goal is to develop systemic and institutional approaches that increase the representation, full participation, and advancement of women and minorities in academic STEM careers—thus contributing to a more diverse workforce, locally and nationally. Scheller ADVANCE Professor Beril Toktay and former Scheller ADVANCE Professor Chris Shalley are both co-facilitators of Goal 4 of the Scheller College’s Strategic Plan (imbed link here), which is focused on diversity and inclusion. They also serve as ex-officio members of the Scheller Diversity and Inclusion Council. With their guidance, students are able to have trusted advisors through the ADVANCE Program. Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Program This program brings together faculty, staff, and students who individually and collectively advance their action, research, or teaching objectives while improving inclusivity on campus. Its goals are to cultivate a network of ambassadors who will advance a culture of inclusive excellence, and to create an environment where people feel safe, comfortable, and empowered to discuss diversity and inclusion. Scheller College fellows include Bill Todd, Lara Fereira, Dionne Nickerson, Heather Dicks, and Maloreigh Todd. FOCUS Focus is an undergraduate program that raises awareness of graduate education to underrepresented minority students. It is designed to attract the best and brightest students across the nation and encourage them to pursue graduate degrees at Georgia Tech. Current third- and fourth-year undergraduate students are invited to apply to this program, which provides participants an opportunity to visit Georgia Tech, obtain assistance with the graduate application process, and gain insight into financial resources available to them. Forté Foundation Scheller College is a proud member of the Forté Foundation, a consortium of leading companies and top business schools that has become a powerful change agent in promoting educational and leadership opportunities for women in business. Focused on all levels of upper-education from undergraduate to pre-MBA, and MBA to professionals, Forté's agenda builds on its founding commitment to increase the number of women in the early business pipeline, and creates partnerships with academic and advocacy groups, as well as its own sponsors, to attract and retain women in business careers. “We want to give young women the skills and tools they need to succeed broadly, while specifically informing them about business options before graduation. This helps companies that seek to enhance diversity—and makes women stronger candidates for the best jobs.” - Elissa Sangster, Executive Director, Forté Foundation Leading Women@Tech Leading Women@Tech is an Institute-wide program founded under the alignment of the Institute Diversity’s strategic plan, specifically Goal Five and Strategy Three, to “Develop Institute collaborations that provide a pathway to excellence for women and underrepresented faculty and staff, while working with the Institute’s academic and administrative leadership to promote diversity and equity in the advancement and promotion of women and underrepresented staff employees.” The primary responsibilities of the program include creating opportunities for women leaders at the Institute to build a community and advance a stronger culture of inclusive excellence. Scheller College Dean Maryam Alavi is a regular supporter of the program’s initiatives, serving as a member on the advisory board, as well as facilitating sessions in the last two years of their programming. Management Leadership for Tomorrow Scheller College is a proud member of the Management Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT), a distinguished nonprofit organization dedicated to empower African Americans, Latinos, and Native Americans with the skills, coaching, and connections they need to lead organizations and communities worldwide. MLT helps partner schools to better reflect the rich diversity of the global business community and society by providing unique insights, actionable strategies, and efficient access to the best pool of diverse MBA candidates. Diversity and inclusion is critical in fostering innovation, creativity, productivity, and success in academia and the global workplace. Knowing this, Scheller students, alumni, faculty, and staff led the opportunity to connect with 300 MLT MBA Prep participants June 16-18, 2017, at the 2017 Management Leadership for Tomorrow Summer Seminar, hosted at Scheller College. As hosts, we were able to showcase why our school is an ideal business school for career advancement and management education. “I truly believe that if you can be as diverse and inclusive as our 500+ brands, we can truly unleash the power of perspectives. We believe perspectives drive innovation and ultimately drive growth.” - Andrew Davis - The Coca-Cola Company, Platinum Partner of MLT Summer Seminar 2017 National Black MBA Association We support the mission of the National Black MBA Association, comprised of minority MBAs, business professionals, and MBA students. Each year, Scheller College students attend the National Black MBA Conference, one of the largest professional development and job recruitment events in the nation, attracting more than 9,000 attendees. Scheller College provides support and preparation services to our students attending the conference both before and during the events, including practice interviews, workshops on conference management, and engaging alumni as industry experts. We are also a proud member of the NBMBAA Collegiate Partner Program. This partnership is intended to increase placement rates of black students during and after graduation. Within this partnership, Scheller College and NBMBAA are able to offer students scholarships, mentoring, research collaboration, and more. The PhD Project The PhD Project was founded upon the premise that advancements in workplace diversity could be propelled forward by increasing the diversity of business school faculty. Today, their expansive network of supporters, sponsors and universities helps African Americans, Hispanic Americans and Native Americans attain their business Ph.D. and become the business professors who will mentor the next generation of leaders. Reaching Out MBA Reaching Out MBA (ROMBA) empowers LGBTQIA MBA students to become professionals who will lead the way to equality in business education, in the workplace, and throughout society. Through its programming, anchored by its annual conference, ROMBA educates students about the opportunities and challenges of being an LGBTQIA MBA student and business leader, inspires and enables them to be leaders in their careers and in society and builds connections among each other. Women in Technology Scheller College is connected with the ranks of the top technology women in Georgia by partnering with Women in Technology (WIT). For more than 20 years, WIT has been striving to progress the role of women in the tech industry and to better STEM education opportunities for girls. The organization's work advances women in technology—from the classroom to the boardroom—by providing advocacy, leadership development, networking, mentoring, and technology education. Scheller College of Business’ Dean Alavi was awarded the 2017 Women In Technology Woman of the Year Award, for her efforts advocating for a stronger representation of women in business and technology roles. Student Organizations Blacks in Business Blacks in Business is dedicated to the academic, professional, and personal development of its members. The organization supports the recruitment of diverse students to the Scheller College of Business and welcomes all Georgia Tech students who support its goals. Its mission is to promote the advancement of all Blacks in Business members through the provision of quality resources that foster the successful progression from student members to highly effective Scheller College alumni. “I chose Scheller because it provided me with a great mix of business and technology. Not many programs have a top-tier engineering program right across the bridge, and having access to those individuals is what truly sets Scheller apart. Also, I love that Scheller has VentureLab and right down the street. Eventually I plan to start my own technology firm, so having these resources available are of great value to me.” - DeAndre Jones, Senior Consultant, Daugherty Business Solutions, former President of Blacks in Business Global Jackets Georgia Tech thrives on the inclusion of students from around the world. The varied background of its student population is what allows the Institution to expand globally with groundbreaking new ideas. Global Jackets is a student-led club that aims to educate and share cultural differences in a progressive direction. For 30 years, Global Jackets has worked closely with several cultural organizations on campus and with the Office of International Education to introduce the Tech community to different cultures in different forms and aspects. The club always thrives to have their events informative and fun at the same time. International Committee Georgia Tech is a global institution that thrives on the contributions from its diverse student population. This student-led club provides support and programming that celebrates international heritages. It provides an opportunity for undergraduate students to connect with other international members of the Scheller College community, as well as introducing all business students to various world cultures and traditions. Pride Alliance Georgia Tech Pride Alliance is a student-led club for LGBTQIA students and their allies. The club provides resources and hosts regular meetings and events for LGBTQIA students and their allies to better assist them in navigating the broad world of today. The club aims to educate and enrich the lives of anyone interested in learning about these issues. Scheller Veterans Club This student-led group is committed to assisting transitioning service members and veterans who are interested in pursuing an MBA. Members take great pride in their military experience and are proud to be a part of the Scheller community. We value the leadership and problem-solving abilities that military service men and women bring to our MBA programs. We're committed to helping you develop the skills and network you need to succeed with military friendly MBA programs for active-duty and reserve personnel, as well as veterans. “I knew I didn’t just want an MBA, I wanted a Scheller MBA. I was blown away by the culture, and atmosphere around the College’s Tech Square location, class size, focus on technological innovation, and a very engaged student body.” - Jamie Foss, MBA student, Vice President of Veteran’s MBA Club at Scheller College Scheller Pride Scheller Pride is a club for LGBTQIA full-time, evening, and executive MBA students and allies to provide a supportive environment that will enhance the social, academic, and career experiences of current and future prospective LGBTQIA students, allies, and partners at Scheller College. The club establishes relationships and fosters dialogue with employers and alumni who value a diverse workplace and strive to equip future business leaders to be advocates in the workplace. “Georgia Tech has given me the tools I need to function in the modern business world... My background is in science, which fits well with Georgia Tech. The program is incredibly diverse with people from all backgrounds and industries so I didn't feel out of place. It also makes for a very rich learning environment.” - Alex Ortiz, Founder, Scheller Pride Society of Women in Business The Society of Women in Business is a student-led organization at the Scheller College. Through social activities, professional development events and career-networking opportunities, the club supports and empowers Scheller business students to become successful business leaders. “Having a non-traditional background was a major concern for me going into the MBA program. I frequently wondered how companies would view me and if they would even consider my resume, not to mention interview me. The strength of the on-campus recruiting relationships between Scheller and especially tech companies and Southeast U.S. based companies gave me a chance to interview at more Fortune 100 companies than I could have ever dreamed.” - Hannah Lee, Internship: Senior Analyst Intern, The Home Depot, MBA 2017 Diversity News News May 12, 2022 Meet the Founders of Scheller: Peter Chung’s Restaurant Brings Seoul Food to Atlanta In honor of Asian American and Pacific Islander Month, learn about Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business undergraduate alum and entrepreneur Peter Chung, co-founder of the Mukja Korean Fried Chicken restaurant, and how he’s bringing awareness of Korean food and culture to Atlanta. Read more April 08, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Nikita Dani As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Nikita Dani. Read more View all Diversity News Related Links Institute Policies Student Diversity Programs Campus Organizations Women's Center Office of Minority Education (OMED) LGBT Month Office of Human Resources 08-26-2021 14 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Students Awarded Forté MBA Fellowship for Women Read more Scheller Diversity and Inclusion Panel Georgia Tech Scheller College’s Executive MBA Celebrates Gender Parity Student Enrollment Read more Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures