Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Menu About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give Baylor>Honors College>About>News>Dr. Darren J.N. Middleton Appointed Director of the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Dr. Darren J.N. Middleton Appointed Director of the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core May 18, 2022 The Honors College is excited to announce that Dr. Darren J.N. Middleton, John F. Weatherly Professor of Religion at Texas Christian University, has accepted appointment as Director of the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core. In addition to his administrative role, he will hold a tenured faculty appointment in the BIC as Professor of Literature and Theology. He is set to begin service effective August 1. “I am never more myself than when I am immersed in undergraduate Honors education, so I am thrilled by the many possibilities in play at this lovely moment in the storied life of the Honors College and the BIC,” Middleton said. “As the fourth Director in the BIC’s history, I look forward to playing my part in this exciting adventure, mindful of the impressive footsteps – Drs. Todd, Hendon, and Schultz – I am following.” Middleton comes to Baylor and the Honors College following a 24-year tenure at TCU where he was a great friend to honors education, award-winning teacher, and highly productive scholar. He is author or editor of a dozen books, and over 50 articles and book chapters, addressing such varied subjects as Greek writer Nikos Kazantzakis, Japanese author Shusaku Endo, English novelist Graham Greene, and American writer Cormac McCarthy, along with studies of the Rastafari, an interest growing out of childhood friendship with Jamaican immigrants to his hometown. “Dr. Middleton brings a great deal of Honors College-type experience with him from TCU, experience that will be deeply beneficial to the BIC,” Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education and Institutional Effectiveness and Search Committee Chair Dr. Wesley Null said. “I have no doubt Dr. Middleton will build relationships with a wide variety of constituents from across the Baylor campus that will help BIC thrive in the years ahead.” Middleton brings capable administrative experience to his new role. In chairing numerous university-, college-, and department-level committees; directing study abroad programs in Ghana, Greece, and England; and leading the Master of Liberal Arts program at TCU, he has demonstrated skillful management of significant responsibilities, student-focused decision-making, and effective collaboration. “Among the Honors College’s four academic programs, BIC offers a uniquely well-integrated, comprehensive liberal arts education, and our graduates routinely sing its praises. In this important season in BIC’s history, we are fortunate to have found in Dr. Middleton an internationally respected scholar-teacher who will bring collaborative leadership, insight, judgment, and wisdom to his role as director,” Honors College Dean Douglas Henry said. “I am confident he will serve well and enable BIC to offer new generations of students an exemplary interdisciplinary education undertaken in the light of Christ.” Born and raised in Nottingham, England, Middleton earned his Bachelor of Arts in Religious Studies from the University of Manchester, a Master of Philosophy in Modern Christian Doctrine from the University of Oxford, and his Ph.D. in Literature and Theology from the University of Glasgow. Following his doctoral studies, Middleton was an instructor of Religious Studies at Rhodes College for five years before beginning service at TCU. Dean Henry would like to thank the 8-member search committee for their valuable time and service during the successful nationwide search process: Dr. J. Wesley Null, committee chair, and Drs. Erika Abel, Candi Cann, Melanie Nogalski, Jonathan Tran, Jason Whitlark, Lenore Wright, and Colleen Zori. In addition to their service, the Honors College would like to express great appreciation to Dr. Charles McDaniel for providing invaluable leadership this past year as Interim Director. Dr. McDaniel will continue his leadership role through July and ensure a good transition as Dr. Middleton begins service thereafter. For media inquiries, please contact Emily Clark, BA ’14 | (254) 710-8486. ABOUT THE HONORS COLLEGE AT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY The Honors College at Baylor University unites four innovative interdisciplinary programs – the Honors Program, University Scholars, Baylor Interdisciplinary Core and Great Texts – with a shared commitment to providing undergraduate students the opportunity to pursue questions that often fall between the cracks of the specialized disciplines by investigating the writings of scientists along with the writings of poets, historians and philosophers. For more information, visit baylor.edu/honorscollege. Are you looking for more News? All NewsArchives About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Honors College Contact Us ApplyVisitMake a GiftBaylor Interdisciplinary CoreGreat TextsHonors Residential CollegeHonors ProgramUniversity Scholars General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give