Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Topics Incarceration Prevention Incarceration Prevention America imprisons more people than any other country by a considerable margin. What social conditions create this situation? How can public health understand and address the health effects of mass incarceration? Featured Video <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dM6-GiNa2gc?rel=0&amp;wmode=opaque&amp;autohide=1">Embedded video</a> Faculty in Incarceration Prevention Angela Aidala Associate Research Scientist Sociomedical Sciences Alwyn Cohall Professor Sociomedical Sciences, Population and Family Health, and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center Bruce Armstrong Special Lecturer Population and Family Health Diana Hernández Associate Professor Sociomedical Sciences Ruth Finkelstein George Musa Assistant Professor of Clinical Epidemiology (in Psychiatry) Seth Prins Assistant Professor Epidemiology and Sociomedical Sciences Carole Hutchinson Adjunct Assistant Professor Sociomedical Sciences News & Features Forced to Give Birth Alone: How Prisons and Jails Neglect Pregnant People Who Are Incarcerated It was 5:00 AM when 26-year-old Diana Sanchez first told a deputy in Denver County Jail that she was going into labor. Instead of getting Diana, who was incarcerated, and her baby immediate medical attention, nurses and deputies at the jail decided to take a “wait and see” approach to their Schools Often Respond to Student Health Needs with Discipline Schools with students who have higher levels of substance use and depressed feelings have a higher prevalence of school discipline and school-based police contact, according to a study by Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health researchers. Schools with students who felt less saf Every Gift Has a Story The generosity of philanthropists has brought innovative programming, life-changing research, and talented students to the Columbia Mailman School of Public Health. Donors ensure that the School is at the forefront, whether it’s tackling the climate crisis or COVID-19. “Public health is fron See All Just Published Armstrong, B.J., Kalmuss, D., Cushman, L.F., Bjarnadottir, R.I., Holstrom, A., Peters, Z.J. Valera, P., & Cohall, A.T. (2016). Academic Health Center–Community Justice Program Partnerships: Linking Men in the Justice System to Health Care. Progress in Community Health Partnerships. View Abstract. Valera, P., Boyas, J.F., Bernal, C., Briones Chiongbian, V., Chang, Y., & Shelton., R.C. (2016). A Validation of the Group-Based Medical Mistrust Scale in Formerly Incarcerated Black and Latino Men. American Journal of Men’s Health. View abstract. Wallace, S.A., Strike, K.S., Yonnette Marcia Glasgow, Y.M., Lynch, K. & Fullilove, R.E. (2016). 'Other than That, I’m Good': Formerly Incarcerated Young Black Men’s Self-Perceptions of Health Status. Journal of Health Care for the Poor and Underserved. View abstract. Cohall, A.T. (2016). Falling Through the Cracks: Young Adults, Drugs, and Incarceration. American Journal of Public Health. View abstract. Related Centers & Programs Harlem Health Promotion Center A collaboration of community and academic stakeholders to improve the health and well-being of the Harlem community. National Center for Children in Poverty Dedicated to promoting the economic security, health, and well-being of America’s low-income families and children. Decarceration and Public Health Research Collaborative Critical science on mass criminalization and incarceration for researchers, policymakers, activists, and advocates Upcoming Events Wednesday 1 June episummer@columbia Friday 3 June Release Webinar for the National Academy of Medicine's Global Roadmap for Health Longevity Friday 3 June COVID-19: From Causes to Consequences Hosted by The Columbia Connection Monday 6 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Tuesday 7 June New Resources and Creative Strategies for Recruiting Candidates for Health Departments Tuesday 7 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Thursday 9 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Friday 10 June Creating a Synthetic Life Course Cohort for Research on Alzheimer's Disease Neuroepidemiology Seminar Friday 10 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers