Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Admission Visit Information for: Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Non-Degree Students Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Dean Stanton Wortham Mission & History About Carolyn and Peter Lynch Facts & Figures Contact Related Links Catholic Education Research Initiative Formative Education Initiative Admission Overview Why LSEHD? Tuition & Aid Deadlines & Requirements Request Info Related Links Undergraduate Admission & Aid Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Academics Overview Undergraduate Programs Applied Psychology and Human Development Elementary Education Secondary Education Transformative Educational Studies Lynch School Minors Interdisciplinary Majors Experience, Reflection, Action (ERA) Study Abroad Internal Transfer Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Professional & Continuing Education professional-certificates-instructional-design Certificate Programs Certificate in Human Rights and International Justice Certificate in Positive Youth Development Certificate in Child and Family Mental Health Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in International Higher Education Certificate in Institutional Research Certificate in Serving Exceptional Learners in Catholic Schools Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder Certificate in Bilingual Education Certificate in Deafblindness Certificate in Special Education Certificate in Teaching English Language Learners Online Programs Commencement Summer Session Departments CDEP Master of Arts (M.A.) in Mental Health Counseling Master of Arts (M.A.) in School Counseling Dual Master of Arts (M.A./M.A.) in Theology and Ministry and Counseling Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Counseling Psychology Counseling Practicum Applied Psychology Practicum z_archive applied-developmental-and-educational-psychology-ma /counseling-psychology-phd Test Page school-counseling mental-health-counseling counseling-psychology-phd Faculty & Expertise Counseling Practicum Program Offerings Admission Mission Program Aims & Learning Outcomes Student Admissions, Outcomes, & Other Data About Our Program Counseling Psychology Accreditation Professional Associations Academics & Training ELHE Educational Leadership and Policy, M.Ed. Master of Arts (M.A.) in Higher Education Higher Education Interview Days Master of Arts (M.A.) in International Higher Education Dual Degree Program (M.A./M.B.A.) Dual Degree Program (J.D./M.Ed./M.A.) Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Educational Leadership Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Higher Education _z_archive Certificate in Social Justice Leadership About Us Higher Education Scholars @ BC Blog higher-education-ma Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Information master-of-arts-in-higher-education-master-of-business-administra law-and-education-dual-degree-programs Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in Educational Policy Development Educational Leadership & Higher Education Blog Field Experience Program History Higher Education FAQ Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Mary Kinnane Award IDPG Master of Arts (M.A.) in Learning Engineering _z_archive MESA M.S. in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics M.A. in Research and Evaluation Methods Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment _z_archive Test New MESA Faculty Member Mission Statement Margeau Jong MESA Testimonials applied-statistics-and-psychometrics-ms Graduate Testimonials Graduate Voices MESA Students MESA Alumni & Employment Data MESA Research TCS Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Elementary Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Jesuit Education in a Global World Master of Education (M.Ed., C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Moderate Support Needs Master of Education in Secondary Education Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Extensive Support Needs Global Perspectives Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Curriculum and Instruction Special Education Licensure Offerings M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Moderate Support Needs M.Ed. in Moderate & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Secondary Education & Moderate Support Needs Urban Catholic Teacher Corps Student Teaching _z_archive Teacher Certification Related Links Programs of Study Student Teaching Academic Calendar Study Abroad Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Research Opportunities AERA 2022 Presentations APA 2021 Presentations Related Links News & Videos Academic Calendar Centers & Initiatives Overview Administrators in Catholic Higher Ed Catholic Education Research Community Justice & Engaged Pedagogy Early Childhood Policy Equitable Instruction Initiative Formative Education International Higher Ed International Human Rights Center for Thriving Children Psychological Humanities & Ethics Roche Center Testing, Evaluation, & Educational Policy The Campus School The Study of Race & Culture TIMSS & PIRLS International Study Center Urban Outreach Initiatives Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program Work Intervention Network Community Overview Mentoring & Advising Service Learning Living in Boston Global BC Resources Related Links Diversity & Inclusion Global Faculty Directory & Expertise BC Campus Life BC Veterans News & Videos Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Lynch School Website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Admission Visit Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Non-Degree Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close home Academics Departments MESA M.S. in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics Master of Science (M.S.) in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics Master of Science (M.S.) in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics MESA Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics and Assessment Demand is at an all-time high for data analysts who can help organizations, technology companies, governments, and nonprofit agencies grasp their organizational, societal, and scientific needs. The value of understanding and supporting evidence-based decision-making is essential. The STEM M.S. in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics program prepares you to respond to today’s “new normal” with a depth and breadth of statistical expertise that will serve you, your employers, and your partners well. You will graduate ready to conduct a wide range of advanced statistical analyses with a grounding in the burgeoning field of psychometrics. Apply Inquire At a Glance How many courses? The program consists of 10 courses (30 credits). How long will it take? Students spend 2–3 years pursuing the program on a full-time or part-time basis. When can I start? You can begin the program in the spring, summer, or fall semester. What Is Psychometrics? Psychometrics is the field of science associated with the development of quantitative instruments, such as tests and psychological scales, that measure knowledge, skills, and attributes. Curriculum During this program, you will: be exposed to the latest trends in psychometric theory and research build applied skills in complex data so you can conduct psychometric analyses complete a hands-on internship with organizations such as Facebook, Cognia (Measured Progress), ACT, Aetna Health, or ETS join a community committed to using evidence-based research to foster organizational, educational, and behavioral improvement and equity Requirements Courses: 10 Credits: 30 Comprehensive Exam Program of Study OPT STEM Extension Eligible Core: 8 Courses Electives: 2 Courses Master's Comprehensive Exam Course Course Title Credit MESA6462 Foundations in Research Methodology This course addresses the major issues of educational assessment, with emphasis on the characteristics, administration, scoring, and interpretation of both formal and informal assessments, including but not limited to tests of achievement. All forms of assessment are examined including observation, portfolios, performance tasks, and paper-and-pencil tests, including standardized tests. Basic techniques of test construction, item writing, and analysis are included. Standardized norm-referenced tests and statewide testing programs are also examined. 3 MESA7601 Introduction to Mathematical Statistics Quantitative methods in educational and psychological research have become increasingly complex over time, employing more sophisticated models and estimation strategies. This course helps students to develop a deeper understanding of the strengths and limitations of different approaches to inference and to appreciate some of the ongoing arguments among the adherents of the different philosophies regarding statistical inference. 3 MESA8667 General Linear Models Addresses the construction, interpretation, and application of linear statistical models. Specifically, lectures and computer exercises cover ordinary least squares regression models; matrix algebra operations; parameter estimation techniques; missing data options; power transformations; exploratory versus confirmatory model building; linear-model diagnostics, sources of multicollinearity; diagnostic residual analysis techniques; variance partitioning procedures; dummy, effect, and orthogonal coding procedures; and an introduction to structural equation modeling. 3 MESA6469 Intermediate Statistics Topics and computer exercises address tests of means, partial and part correlations, multiple regression, analysis of variance with planned and post hoc comparisons, analysis of covariance, repeated measures analysis, elements of experimental design, and power analysis. 3 MESA8668 Multivariate Statistical Analysis This course provides lectures, examples, and lab analyses that address multinomial and ordinal logistic regression models, multiple group discriminant analysis, cluster analysis, multivariate analysis of variance, principal component analysis, factor analysis, and structural equation modeling. We cover various issues related to research design, model building, and the interpretation of the output from SPSS, R, Lisrel, and SAS software programs. 3 MESA8669 Psychometric Theory: Classical Test Theory and Rasch Models Presents a study of theoretical concepts, statistical models, and practical applications in educational and psychological measurement. General topics include the history of measurement, Thurstone and Guttman scales, classical true-score theory, and item response theory. Specific topics include principles of Rasch measurement, parameter estimation procedures, fit statistics, item banking, and computer adaptive testing. 3 MESA8670 Psychometric Theory II: Item Response Theory This course presents an advanced study of theoretical concepts, statistical models, and practical applications in educational and psychological measurement. Topics include item response theory, two-parameter model, three-parameter model, methods for estimating latent trait and item parameters, models for polytomously scored items, differential Item Functioning(DIF), test equating , vertical scaling, computerized adaptive testing, standard setting, and multidimensional item response theory models. The IRT software or tools used in this course include R, IRTPRO, BILOG-MG, PARSCALE, NOHARM, DIF related software, STUIRT, ST., EQUATE, etc. 3 MESA8861 Multilevel Regression Modeling This course introduces students to multilevel regression modeling (aka hierarchical models or mixed effects models) for analyzing data with a nesting or hierarchical structure. We discuss the appropriate uses of multilevel regression modeling, the statistical models that underpin the approach, and how to construct models to address substantive issues. We consider a variety of types of models, including random intercept, and random slope and intercept models; models for longitudinal data; and models for discrete outcomes. We cover various issues related to the design of multilevel studies, model building and the interpretation of the output from HLM and SPSS software programs. 3 Students will select 2 electives (3 credits each) with the help of their advisor. Course Course Title Credit MESA8100 Master's Comprehensive Exam In order to ensure that all students graduating from the master's program have a fundamental understanding of the field which they are about to enter, they are required to complete a written comprehensive examination covering the broad areas of the core courses. 0 Learning Outcomes This program will enable you to: understand the theory of applied statistics and psychometrics conduct analyses using advanced procedures such as multiple regression, multivariate models, hierarchical linear modeling, causal modeling, and longitudinal analyses interpret and report quantitative and qualitative designs, procedures, and results design, conduct, analyze, interpret and report both Classical Test Theory and Item Response Theory analyses communicate research findings effectively including in reports and data visualizations ensure equity and social justice in testing and assessment STEM Designation Applied Statistics and Psychometrics is designated as a STEM program by the Department of Homeland Security. Learn More about STEM Designation Careers In this program, you will gain the skills to work as a: Data scientist Data analyst Research associate Product manager Statistical analyst, statistician Psychometrician Business analyst “Boston College has established a strong local network and alumni network, and we have very good internship and job placement. There are nearly limitless things you can do with a stats background.” Zhushan “Mandy” Li, Ph.D., Program Director, M.S. in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics Faculty View More View Less View More View Less Financial Aid Education should level the playing field. We feel the same way about financial aid. The Lynch School of Education and Human Development provides more than $8.4 million in financial aid to students each year. As a result, the quality of BC’s instruction, the benefit of our alumni network, and the impact a BC degree will have on your employment options is both affordable and invaluable. More About Financial Aid MESA Research Centers Both master’s and doctoral students can work with faculty and other experts at one of the Lynch School’s internationally renowned MESA‐affiliated research centers: TIMSS and PIRLS International Study Center The Center conducts comparative educational achievement studies in math and science (the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study or TIMSS) and reading (Progress in International Reading Literacy Study or PIRLS) under the auspices of the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement. Visit TIMSS and PIRLS Center for the Study of Testing, Evaluation, and Educational Policy (CSTEEP) CSTEEP is an educational research organization that conducts research on testing, evaluation, and public policy, working with individual schools, districts, states, and countries to advance educational testing practices and policy and improve the quality and fairness of education. Visit CSTEEP Careers Roles Researcher Assistant Professor Project Analyst Research Associate Director of Efficacy Analytics and Studies College President Principal Psychometrician Director, Innovation Lab Senior Vice President of Research Senior Consultant Organizations American Institutes for Research Northern Illinois University Bank of America Operations Hanover Research Pearson Cumberland County College ACT Inc. Measured Progress Maguire Associates Sheffield Research and Evaluation Alumni Profiles Apply Apply Print Application & Deadlines Application & Deadlines A non-refundable application fee of $75 is required, however, this fee is waived for select applicants. Deadlines Fall Regular decision — 1/6 Rolling admission — until 7/15 International applicants — until 7/1 Spring Regular Decision — 11/1 Summer Regular Decision — 4/1 Resume To be uploaded to your online Application Form. In addition to your academic history and relevant work experience, please include any licenses currently held, any social justice-related experience, any language skills other than English, and any research experience or publications. Personal Statement To be uploaded to your online Application Form. In 1,000-1,500 words, describe your academic and professional goals, any experience relevant to this program, and your future plans, expectations, and aspirations. Letters of Recommendation Identification of recommenders/instructions to recommenders are outlined in the online Application Form. Two letters of recommendation are required with at least one required from an academic source. Applicants with significant relevant professional experience may submit additional recommendations from supervisors. Transcripts Unofficial transcripts will be accepted in lieu of official transcripts for the application review process. In the event that one is admitted into a program and enrolls, our office will need official transcripts prior to course registration. To expedite application processing times, our office encourages you to send unofficial transcripts electronically to our email address at GSOE@BC.EDU. Please note that unofficial transcripts must include all of the following items: Course titles and grades for each course Year and entry term for each of the courses listed Translated into English by certified translation agent (if not already in English) Original and translated transcripts must be provided If you are able to secure official transcripts, please note the following: An official postsecondary transcript must be printed on official institutional paper and include at least one of the following: an institutional watermark, the registrar’s signature, or the registrar's seal. Copies and unofficial transcripts sent directly from applicants are not acceptable, the transcript must come directly from the institution. If you are a current student and have not completed your undergraduate and/or graduate degree, the most updated version of your transcript is acceptable. Official electronic transcripts are accepted when sent directly to gsoe@bc.edu from the institution. When requesting electronic transcripts, you must manually type in gsoe@bc.edu to ensure it is received by our office. Mailed transcript(s) should be sent to the following address: Lynch Office of Graduate Admissions, Boston College Campion Hall 135 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Standardized Tests Submitting GRE test scores is optional and not required for 2022 entry term(s). If you wish to send GRE scores, the Lynch School GRE code is 3218. Writing Sample Not required. International Students International applicants are encouraged to apply to the Lynch School of Education and Human Development. Requirements for International Students Quick Links Facts & Figures Faculty Why LSEHD? Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Tuition & Aid Department MESA Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics and Assessment Contact Us gsoe@bc.edu 617-552-4214 Back To Top Back To Top Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Campion Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4200 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Community Apply Visit Give CONNECT WITH US Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College