Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search Office of the Chancellor Office of the Chancellor About the Chancellor expand_more Biography Campus Communications Contact History of the office Town Halls & Campus Updates UW Tacoma Facts Vision, mission, and values Initiatives expand_more Business Diversity & Equity Program COVID-19 Resources add Health, testing and vaccines Spring Quarter 2022 Frequently Asked Questions Resources for faculty & staff Communications on COVID-19 Husky PACK Pledge Campus Climate Initiative add UW Climate Survey Reports and Implementation Plans UW Climate Survey Response and Implementation Dressel Scholars Program add Mentorship Program Past Dressel Scholars Strategic Planning add Coordinating Committee Administration expand_more Chancellor's Cabinet Directors and deans Advisory Board Campus committees UW Leadership Leadership Searches Recognition & Awards expand_more Chancellor's Medal Distinguished Community Engagement Award Distinguished Librarian Award Distinguished Research Award add Nomination Information Distinguished Service Award Distinguished Teaching Award add Nomination Information President's Medal Divisions expand_more Academic Affairs Advancement Equity & Inclusion Finance & Administration Information Technology Student Affairs MyUW Map Tools Breadcrumb Home Office of the Chancellor Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Last update: 3/16/2022 @ 10:17 a.m. Check the main COVID-19 page for latest news announcements. In addition to the FAQ below, information and resources for students and for staff, faculty and other academic personnel are available. If you have question that isn't answered here on the other UW FAQs, please let us know at uwttownhall@uw.edu. Prevention, health and vaccines How does COVID-19 spread? You can spread COVID-19 without having symptoms, which is why getting vaccinated is critically important. COVID-19 spreads mainly through respiratory droplets and particles expelled when an infected person breathes, coughs, sneezes, speaks or sings while in close contact with another person. Additionally, these small droplets and particles linger in the air and infect people who are more than 6 feet away. This is more likely to happen in poorly ventilated indoor spaces, particularly when the infected person is exercising, singing or doing other activity that causes them to breathe heavily. If you are not vaccinated, diligently follow the three Ws — wearing masks, watching our physical distances and washing our hands — and avoiding crowded indoor spaces. Learn more: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention “How COVID-19 Spreads.” . What are the symptoms of COVID-19 infection? COVID-19 symptoms can include: Fever Cough Shortness of breath Sore throat Runny nose Headache Muscle aches Chills Loss of taste or smell Nausea or vomiting Diarrhea If you have any of these symptoms, stay home and get tested – even if you are vaccinated. If you test positive, notify the UW COVID-19 Response and Prevention Team at covidehc@uw.edu or 206-616-3344. When and where can I get vaccinated? All Washington residents age 12 and up are now eligible to be vaccinated at no cost. Appointments available at UW Medicine and many other providers. Learn more. What do I do if I feel sick? If you are sick with any potential illness, you must stay home. The most common symptoms of COVID-19 infection are fever, cough and shortness of breath. The CDC also maintains a list of possible COVID-19 symptoms that you should review. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, you need to take additional steps to take care of yourself and protect your loved ones: Contact your healthcare provider and ask if you should be tested for COVID-19. UW Tacoma students can also contact Franciscan Prompt Care at St. Joseph. To protect the health of others, do NOT visit a doctor’s office, urgent care clinic or other health facility unless you’ve talked with them in advance about possibly having COVID-19. Notify the COVID-19 Response & Prevention Team: covidehc@uw.edu or 206-616-3344 as soon as your healthcare provider confirms or suspects COVID-19. Follow public health guidelines to help you recover and protect loved ones from getting sick. These actions include staying home and physically separate from anyone who lives with you, wearing a face covering if you have to be around people, and being stringent about hygiene. You can learn more from Tacoma-Pierce County Public Health and the Washington State Department of Health. I feel anxious about COVID-19. What can I do? This is can be a stressful, difficult time for everyone. You don’t have to go through it alone. Students can access support through Counseling & Psychological Services at UW Tacoma. UW employees can access support through CareLink. Washington residents can also call or text Washington Listens at 1-833-681-0211, M–F from 9 a.m.–9 p.m. and weekends from 9 a.m.–6 p.m. Language access services are available, and TTY can be accessed by dialing 7-1-1 or preferred method. You can help stop the spread of COVID-19 by getting vaccinated and following public health guidelines. Additionally, you can protect yourself and your community by opting in to receive notifications of potential COVID-19 exposures on your smartphone through the Washington Exposure Notifications – WA Notify app. Is there COVID-19 testing available on campus? We will soon be offering self-administered tests through the Husky Coronavirus Testing program, powered by the Seattle Flu Study – the group that was the first to report community spread of COVID-19 in the United States. Enrollment is encouraged for all students, faculty and staff who will be on campus regularly. Kits will be available at the University Y Student Center, and hours for kit pick-up will be posted soon. What does the UW do when a member of our community has confirmed COVID-19? We depend on people to report when they have confirmed or suspected COVID-19. Peoples’ identities are closely protected and disclosed only on a need-to-know basis, such as a public health response, HR actions, and unit management. Once we receive someone’s report, we take the following steps to protect the health and safety of our campus communities: We document the person’s symptoms, where they’ve spent time on campus recently and any close contacts, such as anyone who was within 6 feet of the person for a cumulative total of at least 15 minutes during a 24-hour period (even if both people wore masks). We conduct a risk assessment, which helps us decide on a specific action plan. Our actions may include any or all of the following: We help the person understand how to take care of themselves and others by staying home and physically apart from other people. If needed, we notify the person’s academic and/or work unit and provide information about actions that will be taken to prevent the virus’s spread. We notify people who were in close contact with the person as far back as 48 hours before they developed symptoms. If the person spent time on campus recently, we evaluate and coordinate enhanced cleaning and disinfection of those areas following CDC guidelines. If the person spent time in a work space on campus recently, we notify coworkers and others who have also been in that space and share information about steps we’re taking to prevent the virus’s spread. More information about how the UW responds to cases of COVID-19 in the University community is available from UW Environmental Health & Safety. Is UW Tacoma Student Health Services open for services? UW Tacoma Student Health Services is offered through Franciscan Prompt Care at St. Joseph and continues to be open regular hours. Franciscan Virtual Urgent Care is available 24/7 for students. Additional FAQ on Prevention and Personal Health Classes and academics How can I tell if a course is being offered in person or remotely? You can check the Tacoma time schedule, which indicates which courses are being taught in person or remotely. One of my classes has been canceled. What can I do? A small percentage of courses may be canceled and removed from students’ schedules because of a range of factors, from instructor availability to course demand. If that happens, you may be notified of changes through an auto-generated email from the Office of the Registrar or an email from a department chair, faculty member or advisor. To replace a course, contact your advisor and continue using tools such as MyPlan and MyUW. Advisors can also help if the removal of a specific course creates challenges for you to reach an upcoming milestone like graduation, applying to a major, declaring a minor or preparing to pursue graduate/professional study. Where can I access resources for online learning? There is a great page of resources and tips published by UW Tacoma's Digital Learning office: Student Online Support What options are there for students who don't have access to technology at home? Currently enrolled students may borrow laptops, wifi hotspots and other technology by contacting the UW Tacoma IT Helpdesk. Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid What if I am experiencing financial hardship? Students experiencing hardship are encouraged to connect with the UW Tacoma Office of Student Financial Aid. Emergency aid is available to help enrolled students with unexpected needs such as emergency medical costs, housing expenses, family emergencies, loss of income, and other situations. Is the Pantry open for students who need food assistance? Yes, the Pantry is open for in-person services, Monday - Friday, 9AM - 5PM. At this time, online ordering and delivery are not available. How is money from the federal CARES Act (Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund) being distributed? The Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act was passed by Congress and signed into law to provide economic relief from COVID-19. One section of the CARES Act established the Higher Education Emergency Relief fund and sent money to schools to use for emergency financial aid grants to students for expenses related to the disruption of campus operations due to the pandemic. For more information about the UW disbursement of these funds, see the UW CARES Act FAQ. Phishing emails are being received regarding CARES funding, do not provide personal information like your Social Security number or bank account information. You should only provide or update personal information through MyUW. The UW will use the information you have provided in MyUW to communicate with you or disburse aid to you. Housing and Student Life Can I still live on campus at Court 17 Student Housing? Court 17 Apartments are open with reduced capacity to facilitate physical distancing. Students who have applied to live on campus will receive communications regarding next steps in the assignment process from Housing & Residence Life, including information about room assignments and the use of community spaces. How do new UW Tacoma students get their Husky cards? New students can get their Husky card through the UW Tacoma Online Husky Card Submission Portal. Follow the instruction to upload your photo, documentation and personal information. Husky Cards will be printed and mailed to the address provided within 10 business days. There is no fee for getting your Husky Card. To get started you will need: Name, Student ID number, Current mailing address, email, color photo ID (driver’s license, passport, etc), current color photo for ID. For questions contact the Office of the Registrar at reguwt@uw.edu. We cannot offer any in-person services at this time. Technology Does access to Zoom continue through the 2021-22 academic year? Yes, UW Zoom Pro accounts will continue to be available through the coming academic year, and they are available to all instructors, staff and students at no cost. You can access Zoom using your UW NetID at https://washington.zoom.us/ How can I access specialized software that is only available on campus computers? UW Tacoma IT has developed several remote-access and cloud-based “virtual lab” environments to accommodate courses with specialized software needs. Contact your instructor for specific information about how this will be accomplished. Contact Office of the Chancellor email uwtchancellor@uw.edu phone_iphone 253-692-5646 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy