Skip to main content Cornell University College of Human Ecology Home Explore the College of Human Ecology Explore Bar: Main College of Human Ecology Home Give to the College of Human Ecology Departments Center for Integrative Developmental Science Division of Nutritional Sciences Human Centered Design (formerly D+EA and FSAD) Psychology (formerly Human Development) Centers & Institutes Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research Center for Integrative Developmental Science Cornell Institute for Research on Children Cornell Institute for Women in Science Cornell MRI Facility Cornell Population Center Human Neuroscience Institute Institute for Healthy Futures Institute on Health Economics, Health Behaviors and Disparities Directory Admissions Give to the College Keyword Search Search Keywords Search Full Menu Directory Admissions Give to the College Departments: Slideout About the Division Explore About the Division Back to previous menu About Us Learn About Our Faculty Mission, Vision & Values A Commitment to Diversity Leadership Seminars Explore Seminars Back to previous menu Dorothy M. Proud Lecture Janet Clay White '61 Lecture The Clive M. McCay Lectureship The Joyce Lindower Wolitzer '76 & Steven Wolitzer Nutrition Seminar The Pritchard Lecture Series in Human Nutrition Directory Explore Directory Back to previous menu Faculty Directory Open Academic Positions Contact DNS Intranet Academics Explore Academics Back to previous menu Undergraduate Studies Explore Undergraduate Studies Back to previous menu Roadmap to the DNS Academic Program Explore Roadmap to the DNS Academic Program Back to previous menu Advising: Academics, Majors, and Careers Academic Policies and Procedures Health & Well-Being Important Contacts for DNS Undergrads Majors in DNS Explore Majors in DNS Back to previous menu Nutritional Sciences Major Human Biology, Health and Society Major Global & Public Health Sciences Major Courses Offered by DNS Undergraduate Minors Explore Undergraduate Minors Back to previous menu Applied Exercise Science Minor Global Heath Minor Nutrition and Health Minor Didactic Program in Dietetics Explore Didactic Program in Dietetics Back to previous menu Academic Preparation Applying - Didactic Program in Dietetics Supervised Fieldwork Opportunities DPD Handbook and Resources for Current Students Global Health Program Explore Global Health Program Back to previous menu People Student Leadership Network Global Health Partnerships & Programs Explore Global Health Partnerships & Programs Back to previous menu India Summer Program Tanzania Summer Program Zambia Summer Program Experiential Learning in the Global Health Program Experiential Learning Symposium Case Competition Biological Science Majors with Concentration in Human Nutrition Undergraduate Honors Program Undergraduate Research & Other Academic Opportunities Pre-Health Track Info for Newly Enrolled DNS Students, CALS & CHE Graduate Studies Explore Graduate Studies Back to previous menu M.S. in Nutrition Ph.D. in Nutrition Ph.D. - R.D Combined Program Minor in Epidemiology Dietetic Internship (DI) Explore Dietetic Internship (DI) Back to previous menu Meet Our Dietetic Interns Graduate Program FAQs Meet Our Grad Students Dietetics Public Engagement Explore Public Engagement Back to previous menu Cornell Cooperative Extension Expanding Nutrition Frontiers Experiential Learning in the Global Health Program Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (FMNP) Explore Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (FMNP) Back to previous menu Consumers CCE Educators Farmers and Market Managers Food and Nutrition Education in Communities INSiGHT WHO Cochrane Cornell Summer Institute Explore WHO Cochrane Cornell Summer Institute Back to previous menu Program Topics Faculty Schedule Register Research Explore Research Back to previous menu Learn About Our Faculty Explore Learn About Our Faculty Back to previous menu Aydemir Lab Berry Lab Cassano Research Group Explore Cassano Research Group Back to previous menu Dr. Cassano's Biography Team Members Research Projects Research Findings: The EnHANCE Cohort Study Choline Cognition Research Group Field Lab Explore Field Lab Back to previous menu Field Lab Team Figueroa Lab Explore Figueroa Lab Back to previous menu Research in the Figueroa Lab Figueroa Lab People Food Choice Research Group Gu Lab Johnson Lab Leak Lab Lujan Lab Explore Lujan Lab Back to previous menu Lujan Lab Members Lujan Lab Studies Publications and News Mehta Research Group O'Brien Lab Explore O'Brien Lab Back to previous menu O'Brien Lab People O'Brien Lab Publications O'Brien Lab Research Odoms-Young Nutrition Liberation, Food Sovereignty, and Justice Lab Explore Odoms-Young Nutrition Liberation, Food Sovereignty, and Justice Lab Back to previous menu About Us Research/Projects Publications Poole Lab Qian Laboratory Soloway Lab Vacanti Lab Zhong Lab Explore Zhong Lab Back to previous menu Research in the Zhong Lab People & Opportunities Publications News / In the Media Studies Recruiting Participants Centers, Programs & Institutes Explore Centers, Programs & Institutes Back to previous menu Cornell Food and Nutrition Policy Program Food and Nutrition Education in Communities INSiGHT PAHO/WHO Collaborating Centre for Nutrition Program in International Nutrition Explore Program in International Nutrition Back to previous menu History Network News and Events RNECE Northeast Region at Cornell Research Facilities Explore Research Facilities Back to previous menu Cornell Statistical Consulting Unit HMRU | Division of Nutritional Sciences Explore HMRU | Division of Nutritional Sciences Back to previous menu HMRU Directions HMRU Facilities HMRU Standard Operating Procedures Student Life Explore Student Life Back to previous menu Student Spotlights Alumni ↑ Explore Human Ecology Departments and Centers Departments Center for Integrative Developmental Science Division of Nutritional Sciences Explore Division of Nutritional Sciences Back to previous menu About the Division Explore About the Division Back to previous menu About Us Learn About Our Faculty Mission, Vision & Values A Commitment to Diversity Leadership Seminars Directory Open Academic Positions Contact DNS Intranet Academics Explore Academics Back to previous menu Undergraduate Studies Explore Undergraduate Studies Back to previous menu Roadmap to the DNS Academic Program Majors in DNS Explore Majors in DNS Back to previous menu Nutritional Sciences Major Human Biology, Health and Society Major Global & Public Health Sciences Major Courses Offered by DNS Undergraduate Minors Didactic Program in Dietetics Global Health Program Biological Science Majors with Concentration in Human Nutrition Undergraduate Honors Program Undergraduate Research & Other Academic Opportunities Pre-Health Track Info for Newly Enrolled DNS Students, CALS & CHE Graduate Studies Explore Graduate Studies Back to previous menu M.S. in Nutrition Ph.D. in Nutrition Ph.D. - R.D Combined Program Minor in Epidemiology Dietetic Internship (DI) Graduate Program FAQs Meet Our Grad Students Dietetics Public Engagement Explore Public Engagement Back to previous menu Cornell Cooperative Extension Expanding Nutrition Frontiers Experiential Learning in the Global Health Program Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (FMNP) Food and Nutrition Education in Communities INSiGHT WHO Cochrane Cornell Summer Institute Research Explore Research Back to previous menu Learn About Our Faculty Studies Recruiting Participants Centers, Programs & Institutes Research Facilities Student Life Explore Student Life Back to previous menu Student Spotlights Alumni Human Centered Design (formerly D+EA and FSAD) Psychology (formerly Human Development) Centers & Institutes Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research Center for Integrative Developmental Science People Longitudinal Methods Workshop Research Dissertation Research Awards Workshops Cornell Institute for Research on Children Cornell Institute for Women in Science Cornell MRI Facility Cornell Population Center Human Neuroscience Institute Institute for Healthy Futures Institute on Health Economics, Health Behaviors and Disparities Collapse Department Menu Departments: Header Menu, 2nd Tier About the Division Explore About the Division Back to previous menu About Us Learn About Our Faculty Mission, Vision & Values A Commitment to Diversity Leadership Seminars Directory Open Academic Positions Contact DNS Intranet Academics Explore Academics Back to previous menu Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Dietetics Public Engagement Explore Public Engagement Back to previous menu Cornell Cooperative Extension Expanding Nutrition Frontiers Experiential Learning in the Global Health Program Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (FMNP) Food and Nutrition Education in Communities INSiGHT WHO Cochrane Cornell Summer Institute Research Explore Research Back to previous menu Learn About Our Faculty Studies Recruiting Participants Centers, Programs & Institutes Research Facilities Student Life Explore Student Life Back to previous menu Student Spotlights Alumni Nutritional Sciences Major Explore This Section Nutritional Sciences Major About the Division Explore About the Division Back to previous menu About Us Learn About Our Faculty Mission, Vision & Values A Commitment to Diversity Leadership Seminars Explore Seminars Back to previous menu Dorothy M. Proud Lecture Janet Clay White '61 Lecture The Clive M. McCay Lectureship The Joyce Lindower Wolitzer '76 & Steven Wolitzer Nutrition Seminar The Pritchard Lecture Series in Human Nutrition Directory Explore Directory Back to previous menu Faculty Directory Open Academic Positions Contact DNS Intranet Academics Explore Academics Back to previous menu Undergraduate Studies Explore Undergraduate Studies Back to previous menu Roadmap to the DNS Academic Program Explore Roadmap to the DNS Academic Program Back to previous menu Advising: Academics, Majors, and Careers Academic Policies and Procedures Health & Well-Being Important Contacts for DNS Undergrads Majors in DNS Explore Majors in DNS Back to previous menu Nutritional Sciences Major Human Biology, Health and Society Major Global & Public Health Sciences Major Courses Offered by DNS Undergraduate Minors Explore Undergraduate Minors Back to previous menu Applied Exercise Science Minor Global Heath Minor Nutrition and Health Minor Didactic Program in Dietetics Explore Didactic Program in Dietetics Back to previous menu Academic Preparation Applying - Didactic Program in Dietetics Supervised Fieldwork Opportunities DPD Handbook and Resources for Current Students Global Health Program Explore Global Health Program Back to previous menu People Student Leadership Network Global Health Partnerships & Programs Explore Global Health Partnerships & Programs Back to previous menu India Summer Program Tanzania Summer Program Zambia Summer Program Experiential Learning in the Global Health Program Experiential Learning Symposium Case Competition Biological Science Majors with Concentration in Human Nutrition Undergraduate Honors Program Undergraduate Research & Other Academic Opportunities Pre-Health Track Info for Newly Enrolled DNS Students, CALS & CHE Graduate Studies Explore Graduate Studies Back to previous menu M.S. in Nutrition Ph.D. in Nutrition Ph.D. - R.D Combined Program Minor in Epidemiology Dietetic Internship (DI) Explore Dietetic Internship (DI) Back to previous menu Meet Our Dietetic Interns Graduate Program FAQs Meet Our Grad Students Dietetics Public Engagement Explore Public Engagement Back to previous menu Cornell Cooperative Extension Expanding Nutrition Frontiers Experiential Learning in the Global Health Program Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (FMNP) Explore Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (FMNP) Back to previous menu Consumers CCE Educators Farmers and Market Managers Food and Nutrition Education in Communities INSiGHT WHO Cochrane Cornell Summer Institute Explore WHO Cochrane Cornell Summer Institute Back to previous menu Program Topics Faculty Schedule Register Research Explore Research Back to previous menu Learn About Our Faculty Explore Learn About Our Faculty Back to previous menu Aydemir Lab Berry Lab Cassano Research Group Explore Cassano Research Group Back to previous menu Dr. Cassano's Biography Team Members Research Projects Research Findings: The EnHANCE Cohort Study Choline Cognition Research Group Field Lab Explore Field Lab Back to previous menu Field Lab Team Figueroa Lab Explore Figueroa Lab Back to previous menu Research in the Figueroa Lab Figueroa Lab People Food Choice Research Group Gu Lab Johnson Lab Leak Lab Lujan Lab Explore Lujan Lab Back to previous menu Lujan Lab Members Lujan Lab Studies Publications and News Mehta Research Group O'Brien Lab Explore O'Brien Lab Back to previous menu O'Brien Lab People O'Brien Lab Publications O'Brien Lab Research Odoms-Young Nutrition Liberation, Food Sovereignty, and Justice Lab Explore Odoms-Young Nutrition Liberation, Food Sovereignty, and Justice Lab Back to previous menu About Us Research/Projects Publications Poole Lab Qian Laboratory Soloway Lab Vacanti Lab Zhong Lab Explore Zhong Lab Back to previous menu Research in the Zhong Lab People & Opportunities Publications News / In the Media Studies Recruiting Participants Centers, Programs & Institutes Explore Centers, Programs & Institutes Back to previous menu Cornell Food and Nutrition Policy Program Food and Nutrition Education in Communities INSiGHT PAHO/WHO Collaborating Centre for Nutrition Program in International Nutrition Explore Program in International Nutrition Back to previous menu History Network News and Events RNECE Northeast Region at Cornell Research Facilities Explore Research Facilities Back to previous menu Cornell Statistical Consulting Unit HMRU | Division of Nutritional Sciences Explore HMRU | Division of Nutritional Sciences Back to previous menu HMRU Directions HMRU Facilities HMRU Standard Operating Procedures Student Life Explore Student Life Back to previous menu Student Spotlights Alumni Breadcrumb Cornell College of Human Ecology Division of Nutritional Sciences Academics Undergraduate Studies Majors in DNS Nutritional Sciences (NS) is a broad, problem-solving field that draws upon biology, chemistry, and the social sciences. The NS major provides students with a strong foundation in the broad field of nutritional sciences as well as thorough training in chemistry and biology. Learn more about the NS major What is Nutritional Sciences? Nutritional Sciences draws upon biology, chemistry and the social sciences to answer such questions as: How do dietary patterns influence the health and well-being of individuals, communities and populations? What are the biological mechanisms through which nutrients affect metabolism? What are recommended dietary patterns for people of different activity levels and medical conditions? How can people be encouraged to adopt and maintain healthy eating patterns? What are the roles of government and business in providing accessible, healthy food supplies and in promoting healthy eating practices? After completing undergraduate requirements, most students continue their studies in graduate school, dietetic internships or medical school. If you’re enrolled in the College of Human Ecology, you will draw on your preparation in chemistry, biology and math to prepare for a career in many nutrition-related fields, including medicine and other health careers, research, fitness and sports nutrition, nutrition counseling, clinical nutrition, dietetics, nutritional biochemistry, community nutrition and nutrition education. If you’re in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, your work in nutrition will be combined with coursework in food systems, agriculture and the life sciences. You likely will supplement the core nutrition curriculum with courses in such areas as food policy, food science, animal and plant sciences, business and economics, and environmental sciences to prepare for a career in a nutrition-related field. During your first two years of undergraduate studies, you will explore the general field of Nutritional Studies, while completing a core curriculum of foundational courses in chemistry, biology and the social sciences. You also may have opportunities to do undergraduate research and further your learning through field experience. Other opportunities exist for broadening your learning experience and putting classroom learning into practice. You might, for example, participate in the Practicing Medicine program or Off-Campus Opportunity. What courses will I be taking? The foundational curriculum includes introductory chemistry and biology, organic chemistry, biochemistry, physiology and math, as well as introductory courses in the social sciences. Specific college-level requirements (e.g., social sciences and humanities classes) will depend on whether a student is completing an NS through CHE or CALS. in all cases, it is very important to plan and sequence chemistry and biology course appropriately and as early as possible. You also will complete five core courses in nutritional sciences: NS 1150: Nutrition, Health and Society NS 2450: Social Science Perspectives on Food and Nutrition NS 3450: Introduction to Physicochemical and Biological Aspects of Foods NS 3310: Nutrient Metabolism NS 3320: Methods in Nutritional Sciences In addition, you will take at least three advanced level courses in nutritional sciences and courses to meet the general education requirements for your college. You may choose from a broad range of advanced courses including: NS 3030: Nutrition, Health and Vegetarian Diets NS 3060: Nutrition and Global Health NS 3150: Obesity and the Regulation of Body Weight NS 4200: Diet and the Microbiome NS 4300 Proteins, Transcripts, and Metabolism: Big Data in Molecular Nutrition NS 4250: Nutrition Communications and Counseling NS 4410: Nutrition and Disease NS 4450: Toward a Sustainable Global Food System: Food Policy for Developing Countries NS 4480: Economics of Food and Malnutrition NS 4500: Public Health Nutrition NS 4570: Health, Poverty, and Inequality: A Global Perspective Where might a degree in Nutritional Sciences lead me? The NS major provides an excellent foundation for several different career paths, including: Medicine and other health careers such as physical therapist, physician's assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical pharmacy Dietetics including nutrition counseling, clinical nutrition, community nutrition, and management of food and nutrition services in business and the health industry (see also the Didactic Program in Dietetics - DPD) Fitness and Wellness including corporate wellness, sports nutrition, exercise science, and athletic training (also see Applied Exercise Science minor) Nutrition Communications including nutrition education and outreach programs for businesses, governments, and community organizations International Nutrition & Global Health including programs concerned with hunger, health, and food supply issues in non-industrialized countries (also see the Global Health minor) Research including careers that use biochemical, physiological, genomic, clinical, and social science methods to understand how food, diet, and health are related (also see Undergraduate Research and the DNS Honors Program) Following graduation from Cornell, most NS majors pursue their career interests through programs of advanced study such as graduate school, dietetic internships, and medical school. I'm unsure about my interests Expect your career interests to develop and possibly change while you are at Cornell. The first two years of curriculum allow you to explore the field of nutrition while you complete foundational courses in chemistry, biology, and the social sciences. The first-year course, NS 1150 Nutrition, Health and Society, introduces students to some important health issues and helps students develop their critical thinking and writing skills. In a 1-credit course, NS 1200 Nutrition and Health: Issues, Outlooks and Opportunities (spring term), students can meet experts working in different fields and learn about critical issues and trends in these fields as well as the requisite knowledge and skills to work in these areas. Take advantage of the different speakers and seminars offered throughout the year to learn about various career options, and discuss your career interests with your faculty advisor and with college counselors specializing in career planning. If you want to explore other majors, minor fields, or pre-professional paths, your advisor will suggest some people to contact. Can I transfer into or add the Nutritional Sciences major? Transferring into the NS major In general, successful applicants for transfer into the NS major demonstrate: Successful completion of NS 1150 Adequate progress and proficiency in introductory natural sciences courses An appropriate plan to meet NS and College graduation requirements Students who are interested in transferring into the NS major within their home College (e.g. to NS-CALS from another CALS major, or to NS-CHE from another CHE major) should contact dnsstudentservices@cornell.edu. Students who are interested in an Internal Transfer to the NS major from a different College at Cornell should contact the Admissions office of their target College (Human Ecology or CALS). Adding NS as a second major Students in CHE may not have two majors. Students in CALS may add NS-CALS as a second major, but may not add the NS major to the Biological Sciences major if their Biological Sciences major concentration is in Human Nutrition. CALS students who are interested in adding the NS major should contact dnsstudentservices@cornell.edu. Requirements for NS majors Requirements for NS majors in CHE See also the College of Human Ecology Curriculum Sheets. All of the following sections must be completed to graduate. Courses in areas 1-13 must be taken for a Letter Grade. DNS students may not use courses to fulfill more than one requirement among areas 1-13. Credit requirements for the NS major Total: Human Ecology: Human Ecology, outside the major 120 credits 43 credits (NS credits plus any from other CHE departments, listed in next column) 9 non-NS CHE credits (i.e. from DEA, FSAD, HD, or PAM at any level, or HE at the 3000/4000 level) Introductory Chemistry (8 credits): (a) CHEM 2070 General Chemistry I (4 cr) and CHEM 2080 General Chemistry II (4 cr) 1 (b) (AP Chemistry score of 5 or IB Chemistry score of 6 or 7) and CHEM 2080 General Chemistry II (4 cr) 2 (c) (AP Chemistry score of 5 or IB Chemistry score of 6 or 7) and CHEM 2150 Honors General and Inorganic Chemistry (4 cr) 2,3 1 Students may use an AP Chemistry score of 5 to place out of CHEM 2070. However, GPHS students must take at least one semester of chemistry at Cornell, i.e., students who use AP credit toward their chemistry requirement must take an additional chemistry course (i.e., CHEM 2080, CHEM 2150, or other, but not CHEM 1560). Students interested in the pre-health track should take two semesters of chemistry at Cornell. 2 Students who take CHEM 2070 forfeit AP credit. Students who take CHEM 2150 may keep AP credit. 3 Students should only select option (c) if they are very strong in chemistry and are not considering a pre-health (e.g. pre-med) track. Introductory Biology (8 credits): Choose one of the following labs: (a) BIOG 1500 Investigative Lab (2 cr) OR (b) BIOSM 1500 Investigative Marine Biology Lab (3 cr) AND choose two out of the three lecture options1: (a) BIOMG 1350 Cell and Developmental Biology (3 cr) (b) BIOG 1440 Comparative Physiology (3 cr) OR2 BIOG 1445 Comparative Physiology (autotutorial) (4 cr) (c) BIOEE 1610 Ecology and the Environment (3 cr) OR2 BIOEE 1780 Evolution and Diversity (3 cr) 1Students may use an AP Biology score of 5 to place out of one introductory biology lecture. Pre-health (e.g. pre-med) students should not use AP scores to fulfill biology requirements. 2Cannot take both courses within one category to fulfill this requirement Organic Chemistry Lecture (3-8 credits)1 Choose one of the following: (a) CHEM 1570 Elementary Organic Chemistry (3 cr, not for pre-health) OR (b) CHEM 3530 Principles of Organic Chemistry (4 cr, not for pre-health) OR (c) CHEM 3570-3580 Introductory Organic Chemistry (3 cr each, must take both, CHEM 3570 alone will not fulfill the requirement) OR (d) CHEM 3590-3600 Organic Chemistry (4 cr each, must take both, CHEM 3590 alone will not fulfill the requirement) 1Students interested in pre-health tracks should take a two-course sequence of organic chemistry lectures (option c or d above). Organic Chemistry Lab (2-4 credits) (a) CHEM 2510 Introduction to Experimental Organic Chemistry (2 cr) OR (b) CHEM 3010 Honors Experimental Chemistry (4 cr) Physiology (3-4 credits) Choose one of the following1: (a) NS 3410 Human Anatomy and Physiology (4 cr) OR (b) BIOAP 3110 Animal Physiology (3 cr) 1Pre-health students might also consider taking NS 3420 Human Anatomy and Physiology Lab (Spring, 2 cr) Biochemistry (4-6 credits) Choose one of the following: (a) NS 3200 Introduction to Human Biochemistry (4 cr) OR (b) BIOMG 3300 Principles of Biochemistry (4 cr) OR (c) BIOMG 3310 Principles of Biochemistry: Proteins and Metabolism (3 cr) AND BIOMG 3320 Principles of Biochemistry: Molecular Biology (2 cr) OR (d) BIOMG 3310 Principles of Biochemistry: Proteins and Metabolism (3 cr) AND BIOMI 2900 General Microbiology (3 cr) OR (e) BIOG 3350 Principles of Biochemistry: Proteins, Metabolism, and Molecular Biology (4 cr) Nutritional Sciences Core Courses (16 credits) • NS 1150 Nutrition, Health and Society (3 cr) • NS 2450 Social Science Perspectives on Food and Nutrition (3 cr) • NS 3450 Introduction to Physiochemical and Biological Aspects of Food (3 cr) • NS 3310 Nutrient Metabolism (4 cr) • NS 3320 Methods in Nutritional Sciences (3 cr) Advanced Electives in Nutrition (9+ credits) At least 9 credits of NS course at the 3000 level or above (see below for NS courses at the 3000/4000 level organized by area of interest). Notes: • May include NS 3410 ONLY if BIOAP 3110 is used to fulfill the physiology requirement. • May include no more that a TOTAL of 3 credits from NS 4000 Directed Readings, NS 4010 Empirical Research, NS 4020 Supervised Fieldwork, and NS 4990 Honors Research. • May NOT include NS 3200, NS 3980, NS 4620, or NS 4030 Teaching Apprenticeship. Economic Influences on Human Nutrition • NS 3060 Nutrition and Global Health (3 cr) • NS 4450 / 6455, AEM 4450 / 6455 Toward a Sustainable Global Food System: Food Policy for Developing Countries (3 cr) • NS 4480 / 6480 Economics of Food and Malnutrition (3 cr) • NS 4570 Health, Poverty, and Inequality: A Global Perspective (3 cr) Nutrition and Public Health • NS 3600 Epidemiology (3 cr) • NS 4500 Public Health Nutrition (3 cr) • NS 4600 Explorations in Global Health (3 cr) Food Quality and Food Service Management • NS 4880 Applied Dietetics in Foodservice Systems (4 cr) Human Health and Nutrition • NS 3030 Nutrition, Health and Vegetarian Diets (3 cr) • NS / PSYCH 3150 Obesity and the Regulation of Body Weight (3 cr) • NS 3420 Human Anatomy and Physiology Laboratory (2 cr) • NS 4200 Diet and the Microbiome (3 cr) • NS 4410 Nutrition and Disease (4 cr) • NS 4420 Implementation of Nutrition Care (3 cr; enrollment restricted – priority to Dietetics students) • NS 6140 Topics in Maternal and Child Nutrition (3 cr) Nutritional Biochemistry • NS 4300 Proteins, Transcripts, and Metabolism: Big Data in Molecular Nutrition (3 cr) • NS 6310 Micronutrients: Function, Homeostasis and Assessment (2-4 cr) • NS 6320 Regulation of Macronutrient Metabolism (4 cr) Psychological and Social Influences on Human Nutrition • NS 4250 Nutrition Communications and Counseling (3 cr) First Year Writing Seminars (6 credits) Note: the 2 required first year writing seminar courses must be completed during the first two semesters at Cornell. Social Sciences (6 credits) Choose one course in any two of the following four areas: Anthropology • ANTHR 1400 The Comparison of Cultures (3 cr) Economics • ECON 1110 Introductory Microeconomics (3 cr) *Counts for Human Ecology credit • ECON 1120 Introductory Macroeconomics (3 cr) *Does not count for Human Ecology credit Psychology • HD 1150 Human Development: Infancy and Childhood (3 cr) • HD 1170 Adolescence and Emerging Adulthood (3 cr) • PSYCH 1101 Introduction to Psychology (3 cr) Sociology • DSOC 1101 Introduction to Sociology (3 cr) • SOC 1101 Introduction to Sociology (3 cr) Humanities (3-4 credits) Choose any course with the Course Distribution Historical Analysis (HA), Literature and the Arts (LA), or Cultural Analysis (CA). Calculus/Advanced Math (3-4 credits) Choose one of the following: (a) MATH 1105 Finite Mathematics for the Life and Social Sciences (3 cr) (b) MATH 1106 Calculus for the Life and Social Sciences (3 cr) (c) MATH 1110 Calculus I (4 cr) (d) MATH 1120 Calculus II (4 cr) (e) A score of 4 or higher on the AB or BC Calculus AP Exam1 1 See below under Statistics. Statistics (3-4 credits) Choose one of the following: (a) STSCI 2150 Introductory Statistics for Biology (4 cr) (recommended) OR (b) PAM 2100 Introduction to Statistics (4 cr) OR (c) AEM 2100 Introductory Statistics (4 cr) OR (d) BTRY 3010 Biological Statistics I (4 cr) OR (e) ILRST / STSCI 2100 Introductory Statistics (4 cr) OR (f) MATH 1710 Statistical Theory and Application in the Real World (4 cr) OR (g) PSYCH 2500 Statistics and Research Design (3-4 cr) OR (h) SOC 3010 Statistics for Sociological Research (4 cr) (i) A score of 4 or 5 on Statistics AP Exam1 1 DNS students must take either Calculus/Advanced Math or Statistics at Cornell unless they have earned a score of 4 or 5 on the BC Calculus AP Exam. Students in this case may use AP credit for both Calculus/Advanced Math and Statistics. Electives (Variable) Any courses that are not taken in Areas 1-13 above, count as Electives. Students interested in pre-health tracks or graduate study in biological, medical, or exercise sciences should take a two-course series in physics [PHYS 1101 AND 1102 General Physics (auto-tutorial)] OR [PHYS 2207 AND 2208 Fundamentals of Physics]. Physical Education Requirement (2 courses) Physical Education must be completed tin order to graduate. However, physical education does not count toward college and university minimum credit requirements for full-time status, nor does it count towards the 120 credits required for graduation. External transfer students are exempt from this requirement. Swim Test Requirement A successful swim test must be completed in order to graduate. External transfer students are exempt from this requirement. College Polices: 120 Overall Credits Students must complete 120 credits toward graduation. A maximum of 15 credits of AP credit and in absentia credit can count towards the 120 total credits. 15 credits of Study Abroad/Exchange, Cornell-In-Washington, or Capital semester can count towards total electives. A course can only count towards the 120 total credits required once. Students who exceed the above parameters—i.e., by taking more than 15 credits in cases (a), (b), and (c), or taking a course more than once—will have their total required credits increase by the same amount, and all credits will be counted toward their GPA. For example, a student who takes a 3-credit course twice to improve their grade will then be required to complete 123 total credits, and will have both grades factored into their GPA. 43 HE Credits Students must complete a minimum of 43 HE credits. HE non-departmental courses at the 2000-level and below do not count toward the 43 HE credits. Students must complete 5 HE credits by the end of the freshmen year and 12 HE credits by the end of the sophomore year. 9 HE Credits outside the major Students must complete a minimum of 9 HE credits outside of NS. These credits are given for any Human Ecology course outside your major (except 4030). These can be taken S/U only if course is NOT used to fulfill a curriculum requirement. Pass/Fail Courses [S/U] S/U grading option may NOT be used for any required course [Areas 1-13] unless it is the only grade option offered for those courses. S/Us MAY be used for the 9 HE Credits outside the major and for electives in Area 14. Students may apply no more than 12 credits of S/U towards graduation requirements. If a required course is only offered S/U, it will not count towards this limit. Students may take more S/Us if they choose, but the additional credit will not be applied towards graduation. The deadline for changing grade options is the 57th calendar day of the semester, the same as the “drop” deadline. Special Study Courses [4000, 4010, 4020, 4030] A maximum of 12 credits of special study course work from Human Ecology or other colleges will count towards the 120 overall credits (e.g. DNS special studies course work includes NS 4000, 4010, 4020, and 4030). Courses will be indicated on the class roster with a Component of either IND or RSC. [Additional credits can be taken but will not be applied.] A maximum of 12 credits of 4000-4030 may count toward the 43 HE credit requirement. A maximum of 3 credits of 4000-4020 (not including 4030) may count towards the 9 credits outside the major requirement as long as the special study is in a department outside the student’s major. Students cannot TA (4030) the same course for credit more than once or take and TA the same course simultaneously. 4030 does not fulfill any requirements towards the major. Registration for 4030 may not exceed 5 credit hours per semester. Students who wish to take NS Special Studies Courses must have taken and passed at least 2 S/U credits of the same course. Students may petition to waive this requirement if their previous experience is equivalent to this “training period’; for more information, contact aadns@cornell.edu. Requirements for NS majors in CALS See also the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Degree Requirements. All of the following sections must be completed to graduate. Courses in areas 1-12 must be taken for a Letter Grade. DNS students may not use courses to fulfill more than one requirement among areas 1-12, even though DUST indicates otherwise for CALS students. Credit requirements for the NS-CALS major Total: CALS: CALS, outside the major: 120 credits 55 credits (NS credits plus any from other CALS departments) 9 non-NS CALS credits Introductory Chemistry (8 credits): (a) CHEM 2070 General Chemistry I (4 cr) and CHEM 2080 General Chemistry II (4 cr) 1 (b) (AP Chemistry score of 5 or IB Chemistry score of 6 or 7) and CHEM 2080 General Chemistry II (4 cr) 2 (c) (AP Chemistry score of 5 or IB Chemistry score of 6 or 7) and CHEM 2150 Honors General and Inorganic Chemistry (4 cr) 2,3 1 Students may use an AP Chemistry score of 5 to place out of CHEM 2070. However, GPHS students must take at least one semester of chemistry at Cornell, i.e., students who use AP credit toward their chemistry requirement must take an additional chemistry course (i.e., CHEM 2080, CHEM 2150, or other, but not CHEM 1560). Students interested in the pre-health track should take two semesters of chemistry at Cornell. 2 Students who take CHEM 2070 forfeit AP credit. Students who take CHEM 2150 may keep AP credit. 3 Students should only select option (c) if they are very strong in chemistry and are not considering a pre-health (e.g. pre-med) track. Introductory Biology (8 credits): Choose one of the following labs: (a) BIOG 1500 Investigative Lab (2 cr) OR (b) BIOSM 1500 Investigative Marine Biology Lab (3 cr) AND choose two out of the three lecture options1: (a) BIOMG 1350 Cell and Developmental Biology (3 cr) (b) BIOG 1440 Comparative Physiology (3 cr) OR2 BIOG 1445 Comparative Physiology (autotutorial) (4 cr) (c) BIOEE 1610 Ecology and the Environment (3 cr) OR2 BIOEE 1780 Evolution and Diversity (3 cr) 1Students may use an AP Biology score of 5 to place out of one introductory biology lecture. Pre-health (e.g. pre-med) students should not use AP scores to fulfill biology requirements. 2Cannot take both courses within one category to fulfill this requirement Organic Chemistry Lecture (3-8 credits)1 Choose one of the following: (a) CHEM 1570 Elementary Organic Chemistry (3 cr, not for pre-health) OR (b) CHEM 3530 Principles of Organic Chemistry (4 cr, not for pre-health) OR (c) CHEM 3570-3580 Introductory Organic Chemistry (3 cr each, must take both, CHEM 3570 alone will not fulfill the requirement) OR (d) CHEM 3590-3600 Organic Chemistry (4 cr each, must take both, CHEM 3590 alone will not fulfill the requirement) 1Students interested in pre-health tracks should take a two-course sequence of organic chemistry lectures (option c or d above). Organic Chemistry Lab (2-4 credits) (a) CHEM 2510 Introduction to Experimental Organic Chemistry (2 cr) OR (b) CHEM 3010 Honors Experimental Chemistry (4 cr) Physiology (3-4 credits) Choose one of the following1: (a) NS 3410 Human Anatomy and Physiology (4 cr) OR (b) BIOAP 3110 Animal Physiology (3 cr) 1Pre-health students might also consider taking NS 3420 Human Anatomy and Physiology Lab (Spring, 2 cr) Biochemistry (4-6 credits) Choose one of the following: (a) NS 3200 Introduction to Human Biochemistry (4 cr) OR (b) BIOMG 3300 Principles of Biochemistry (4 cr) OR (c) BIOMG 3310 Principles of Biochemistry: Proteins and Metabolism (3 cr) AND BIOMG 3320 Principles of Biochemistry: Molecular Biology (2 cr) OR (d) BIOMG 3310 Principles of Biochemistry: Proteins and Metabolism (3 cr) AND BIOMI 2900 General Microbiology (3 cr) OR (e) BIOG 3350 Principles of Biochemistry: Proteins, Metabolism, and Molecular Biology (4 cr) Nutritional Sciences Core Courses (16 credits) • NS 1150 Nutrition, Health and Society (3 cr) • NS 2450 Social Science Perspectives on Food and Nutrition (3 cr) • NS 3450 Introduction to Physiochemical and Biological Aspects of Food (3 cr) • NS 3310 Nutrient Metabolism (4 cr) • NS 3320 Methods in Nutritional Sciences (3 cr) Advanced Electives in Nutrition (9+ credits) At least 9 credits of NS course at the 3000 level or above (see below for NS courses at the 3000/4000 level organized by area of interest). Notes: • May include NS 3410 ONLY if BIOAP 3110 is used to fulfill the physiology requirement. • May include no more that a TOTAL of 3 credits from NS 4000 Directed Readings, NS 4010 Empirical Research, NS 4020 Supervised Fieldwork, and NS 4990 Honors Research. • May NOT include NS 3200, NS 3980, NS 4620, or NS 4030 Teaching Apprenticeship. Economic Influences on Human Nutrition • NS 3060 Nutrition and Global Health (3 cr) • NS 4450 / 6455, AEM 4450 / 6455 Toward a Sustainable Global Food System: Food Policy for Developing Countries (3 cr) • NS 4480 / 6480 Economics of Food and Malnutrition (3 cr) • NS 4570 Health, Poverty, and Inequality: A Global Perspective (3 cr) Nutrition and Public Health • NS 3600 Epidemiology (3 cr) • NS 4500 Public Health Nutrition (3 cr) • NS 4600 Explorations in Global Health (3 cr) Food Quality and Food Service Management • NS 4880 Applied Dietetics in Foodservice Systems (4 cr) Human Health and Nutrition • NS 3030 Nutrition, Health and Vegetarian Diets (3 cr) • NS / PSYCH 3150 Obesity and the Regulation of Body Weight (3 cr) • NS 3420 Human Anatomy and Physiology Laboratory (2 cr) • NS 4200 Diet and the Microbiome (3 cr) • NS 4410 Nutrition and Disease (4 cr) • NS 4420 Implementation of Nutrition Care (3 cr; enrollment restricted – priority to Dietetics students) • NS 6140 Topics in Maternal and Child Nutrition (3 cr) Nutritional Biochemistry • NS 4300 Proteins, Transcripts, and Metabolism: Big Data in Molecular Nutrition (3 cr) • NS 6310 Micronutrients: Function, Homeostasis and Assessment (2-4 cr) • NS 6320 Regulation of Macronutrient Metabolism (4 cr) Psychological and Social Influences on Human Nutrition • NS 4250 Nutrition Communications and Counseling (3 cr) Communications (9 credits) Complete 9 credits of courses in written and oral expression, at least 6 of which must be written expression. Select courses from First-year Writing Seminars and COMM or ENGL classes as per CALS distribution requirements. Note: Potential courses to fulfill this and any CALS distribution requirement may be found in “DUST.” Social Sciences and Humanities (12 credits)1 Complete 12 credits, including four course of at least 3 credits each: • The four chosen course must include at least 3 different categories from the following list: Cultural Analysis (CA), Human Diversity (D), Foreign Language (FL), Historical Analysis (HA), Knowledge, Cognition, and Moral Reasoning (KCM), Literature and the Arts (LA), and Social and Behavioral Analysis (SBA). • At least one course must be in Human Diversity (D). 1NS majors may not use a major-required course (e.g. a major core course, selective, or advanced major elective) to fulfill this requirement. Calculus/Advanced Math (3-4 credits) Choose one of the following: (a) MATH 1105 Finite Mathematics for the Life and Social Sciences (3 cr) (b) MATH 1106 Calculus for the Life and Social Sciences (3 cr) (c) MATH 1110 Calculus I (4 cr) (d) MATH 1120 Calculus II (4 cr) (e) A score of 4 or higher on the AB or BC Calculus AP Exam1 1 See below under Statistics. Statistics (3-4 credits) Choose one of the following: (a) STSCI 2150 Introductory Statistics for Biology (4 cr) (recommended) OR (b) PAM 2100 Introduction to Statistics (4 cr) OR (c) AEM 2100 Introductory Statistics (4 cr) OR (d) BTRY 3010 Biological Statistics I (4 cr) OR (e) ILRST / STSCI 2100 Introductory Statistics (4 cr) OR (f) MATH 1710 Statistical Theory and Application in the Real World (4 cr) OR (g) PSYCH 2500 Statistics and Research Design (3-4 cr) OR (h) SOC 3010 Statistics for Sociological Research (4 cr) (i) A score of 4 or 5 on Statistics AP Exam1 1NS-CALS students must take either Calculus/Advanced Math or Statistics at Cornell unless they have earned a score of 3 or higher on the BC Calculus AP Exam. Students in this case may use AP credit for both Calculus/Advanced Math and Statistics. Electives (Variable) Any courses that are not taken in Areas 1-13 above count as Electives. Students interested in pre-health tracks or graduate study in biological, medical, or exercise sciences should take a two-course series in physics [PHYS 1101 AND 1102 General Physics (auto-tutorial)] OR [PHYS 2207 AND 2208 Fundamentals of Physics]. Physical Education Requirement (2 courses) Physical Education must be completed tin order to graduate. However, physical education does not count toward college and university minimum credit requirements for full-time status, nor does it count towards the 120 credits required for graduation. External transfer students are exempt from this requirement. Swim Test Requirement A successful swim test must be completed in order to graduate. External transfer students are exempt from this requirement. College Polices: 120 Overall Credits Students must complete 120 credits toward graduation. A maximum of 15 credits of AP credit and in absentia credit can count towards the 120 total credits. 15 credits of Study Abroad/Exchange, Cornell-In-Washington, or Capital semester can count towards total electives. A course can only count towards the 120 total credits required once. Students who exceed the above parameters—i.e., by taking more than 15 credits in cases (a), (b), and (c), or taking a course more than once—will have their total required credits increase by the same amount, and all credits will be counted toward their GPA. For example, a student who takes a 3-credit course twice to improve their grade will then be required to complete 123 total credits, and will have both grades factored into their GPA. CALS Credits CALS students must complete a minimum of 55 HE credits. DNS students must complete a minimum of 9 of these 55 credits from non-NS CALS coursework. Pass/Fail Courses [S/U] S/U grading option may NOT be used for any required course [Areas 1-12] unless it is the only grade option offered for those courses. S/Us MAY be used for the 9 CALS Credits outside the major and for electives in Area 13. The deadline for changing grade options is the 57th calendar day of the semester, the same as the “drop” deadline. Special Study Courses [4000, 4010, 4020, 4030] A maximum of 12 credits of special study course work from CALS or other colleges will count towards the 120 overall credits (e.g. DNS special studies course work includes NS 4000, 4010, 4020, and 4030). Courses will be indicated on the class roster with a Component of either IND or RSC. [Additional credits can be taken but will not be applied.] Students who wish to take NS Special Studies Courses must have taken and passed at least 2 S/U credits of the same course. Students may petition to waive this requirement if their previous experience is equivalent to this “training period’; for more information, contact dnsstudentservices@cornell.edu. NS major requirements checklist (does not include College requirements) NS major requirements checklist: downloadable form. This document is meant as a tool for tracking progress toward completing requirements for the HBHS major. It does not account for College-level requirements, such as humanities, social sciences, communication courses, and the required number of CHE or CALS credits. These requirements are described in detail above. Contact us at dnsstudentservices@cornell.edu Future Students Connect Today Apply Inquire Visit 244 Garden Ave, Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact DNS Directions Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' Land Acknowledgment for the Ithaca Campus Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. Web Accessibility Assistance University Privacy Notice © 2022 College of Human Ecology