Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Financial Aid Menu Search TTU Financial Aid Home Understanding Interest Interest is the cost of borrowing money. It begins to accrue, or add up when loan disbursements are made or credit is issued. Be it interest earned on a personal savings or checking account or interest accruing on federal student loans, private student loans, personal loans, or credit cards, it's important for students to understand interest, how it affects them, and how to stay on top of it. The following are some tips for students on how to use credit in the most advantageous way. What Do the Terms Mean? Understanding the definitions of common interest-related terms is important. The most commonly used terms are principal, interest rate, and capitalization. Principal: The actual amount of money borrowed. Interest Rate: The amount charged by a lender to a borrower for the use of assets, expressed as a percentage of the principal. Capitalization: Any unpaid interest added to the principal. Unpaid interest is often interest that accrues during times when payments are postponed, (e.g., grace periods, forbearances, or deferments). Capitalization of interest can occur at the time a loan enters repayment for the first time or after a temporary suspension of payments. How Does it All Work? The amount of interest that will be paid depends on: The amount of money borrowed (i.e., the principal). The rate at which interest is charged (i.e., the interest rate). Whether the government pays the interest during periods of in-school enrollment or deferment. The length of time taken to repay the loan. How to Reduce Interest Paid There are ways to reduce the amount of interest to be repaid. Make payments when not required (e.g., during in-school, deferment, or periods that postpone payments). Doing this can avoid interest capitalization, which reduces the overall amount to be repaid. Enroll in Auto Pay, which often times reduces the interest rate charged. Pay more than the minimum monthly payment. Doing this may cover the accrued interest amount, and directly reduce the principal balance. How to Calculate Interest The amount of interest that accrues (accumulates) on loans from month to month is determined by a simple daily interest formula. This formula consists of multiplying the loan balance by the number of days since the last payment, times the interest rate factor. Visit the Financial Student Aid (FSA) website to learn more about how interest is calculated. Interest Rates It's important to keep finances healthy for many reasons. Bad credit can have a negative effect on interest rates charged on loans and/or credit cards. For example, if a lender checks a potential borrower's credit report and finds the borrower has a record of missing payments, that lender may decide to deny credit for the customer or charge a higher interest rate for the loan than they would for a customer who has a clean credit report. A credit history in good shape can save money by allowing borrowing at lower interest rates. How to Stay on Top of Interest The best ways to keep interest charges from getting out of control are to: Keep overall healthy finances reflected in credit ratings to ensure interest rates on loans and/or credit cards will be low. Pay more than just minimum payments each month so those payments go toward the principal of a loan and not just the interest every month. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Financial Aid Like Financial Aid on FacebookLike Financial Aid on Facebook Follow Financial Aid on twitterFollow Financial Aid on twitter Subscribe to Financial Aid on YouTubeSubscribe to Financial Aid on YouTube Follow Financial Aid on InstagramFollow Financial Aid on Instagram Address Texas Tech University | Student Financial Aid & Scholarships | West Hall 301 | P.O. Box 45011, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone P: 806.742.3681 | F: 806.742.0880 Email finaid.advisor@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 13, 2020 1:02 PM Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Back Calculating Costs Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Back Cost to Attend Net Cost Calculator Find My Financial Aid & Scholarship Advisor Red Raider Guarantee Study Abroad Types of Aid Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Scholarships Financial Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Back For Continuing Students Incoming Freshmen Incoming Transfer External Scholarship Search Grants Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Education Opportunity Grant (SEOG) Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant (IASG) Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Texas Public Education Grant (TPEG) TEXAS Grant TTU Grant Federal TEACH Grant Student Employment Loans Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Federal Direct Loan Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Graduate/Professional Students Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Parents College Access Loan Texas B-On-Time Loan Private Education Loan Student Athletes Requirements & Forms Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Verification Forms Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Financial Aid Forms Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Special Circumstances Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Special Circumstances Dependency Change Cost of Attendance Review Satisfactory Academic Progress View/Accept Financial Aid Borrower Resources Financial Aid Borrower Resources Back Loan Options Financial Aid Borrower Resources Loan Options Back Federal Direct Loan Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Graduate/Professional Students Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Parents College Access Loan Texas B-On-Time Loan Private Education Loan Understanding Loans Financial Aid Borrower Resources Understanding Loans Back Borrowed Assistance Financial Awareness Counseling Understanding Interest Leave of Absence or Graduation Grace Period Loan Servicer Common Loan Definition & Glossary Repayment Options Financial Aid Borrower Resources Repayment Options Back Federal Loan Exit Counseling Repaying your Loans Deferment & Forbearance Cancellation & Forgiveness Loan Consolidation Avoiding Default Consumer Information Financial Aid Back Consumer Information Planning and Assessment Policy and Procedure U.S. Department of Education's College Affordability & Transparency Center Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index