COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Medical Laboratory Sciences, Major MajorMedical Laboratory Sciences All Programs College of Health Professions Medical Laboratory Sciences The Bachelor of Science (BS) in medical laboratory sciences (MLS) at Wichita State combines quality, accredited classroom curriculum with practical, hands-on learning in Kansas' health care hub. As a MLS graduate, you'll be well prepared to pursue an advanced health-\ care degree—and ready for a high-demand career as a medical laboratory scientist. Learn how medical laboratory sciences is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission into the MLS program, you must: Be admitted to Wichita State Complete, or be near to completing, the pre-professional requirements with grades of C (2.0) or better Submit a department application Submit three letters of reference Have a minimum 2.5 GPA Explain why you want to become a medical laboratory professional on the online application Admission requirements Inside the Program MLS students participate in Medical Mission at Home Each year, Medical Laboratory Sciences students get hands-on experience providing a day of free health care to patients with little or no health insurance. It's all part of the Medical Mission at Home community event. MLS students help community members in need by donating their time taking blood and providing medical services to patients. They also provide much-needed connections for continued follow-up care. Curriculum The MLS degree requires 28-31 credit hours of prerequisite science courses, in addition to general education requirements, and 52 credit hours of professional courses—including applied learning in local health care settings. Once completed, you'll be eligible to take the national certification examination through the American Society for Clinical Pathology. View the curriculum Careers A medical laboratory science degree from Wichita State opens doors to careers in a variety of settings—from hospitals and private clinics to pharmaceutical sales and chemical manufacturing—and is excellent preparation for graduate education in the medical sciences. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Dental Hygiene - Entry Level Program Nursing - Traditional Program Biochemistry Biological Sciences with Biological / Biomedical Emphasis Chemistry Forensic Sciences 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©