Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Home > Home > Academic planning > For prospective transfer students For prospective transfer students Are you interested in transferring to the UW? Please visit our Transfer Portal to get an overview of the process. Here is a list of things to do to best prepare to apply to the UW. 1. Understand the transfer admissions timeline and policies Make sure your intended major offers admission for the quarter you intend to begin attending the UW by consulting MyMajor, an interactive tool for transfer students provided by the Office of Admissions. Consult this list of application dates and deadlines and review the policies regarding transfer credits. 2. Attend Transfer Thursday Every prospective transfer student should attend an in-person or webinar Transfer Thursday session before applying for admission. Due to COVID-19, in-person operations are suspended. See below for information to participate virtually. Undergraduate Academic Affairs Advising offers general drop-in advising for prospective transfer students from 2:30-4:00 p.m every Thursday. You can virtually meet with an adviser by joining the Zoom Room below. Transfer Thursday Event Time How to Join Admissions Webinar (Virtual) 1:30-2:30pm Register here General drop-in advising (Virtual) 2:30-4:00pm Join Zoom room here Departmental drop-in advising (Virtual) Varies See offerings on our online calendar 3. Review academic planning worksheets and transfer equivalency guide Print a worksheet for any major(s) you are considering and fill it out as you progress through your college work. For Washington State Community and Technology College students (CTC), use MyPlan to track how your CTC credits will transfer to the UW as well as measure your progress towards a UW degree. Incoming Transfer Students Are you entering the UW as a transfer student? Make sure you review the list of things to do on the New Students page. Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Understanding credits/grades View our FAQ page to learn how credits and grades work. Need to take a placement test? Learn more on the placement test page. University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA