Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Licensing Licensing right arrow down arrow I'm On Campus right arrow down arrow Internal Requests Sponsorships Fundraising Internal Consumption Policy NIL Requests I'm Off Campus right arrow down arrow University Sponsorship Policy Crafter's Program Licensees right arrow down arrow Code of Conduct Artwork Do's and Don'ts Policies FAQs Find Bearcats Gear right arrow down arrow Look for the Label Home » About UC » Licensing » I'm Off Campus » Crafter's Program Set Navigation title in component University Sponsorship Policy Crafter's Program Crafter's Program The University has a Crafter's Program to benefit the local craftperson. This program provides crafters with an opportunity to use their creativity without infringing the University's trademarks, while still allowing the University to maintain the integrity of its brand. Crafter's Program Requirements Items must be hand-made; no commercially manufactured items are allowed. If anticipated sales exceed 500 units, or sales revenue exceeds $2,500 in one year, please refer to CLC for more information on the Local or Standard Licenses available through the University's licensing agent. A Crafter License allows for sales to individual consumers only, not via wholesale or a third party. Sales may not be conducted through retail stores without the express permission from the University's Director of Trademarks & Licensing. Crafters Licenses are only available to individuals within the Tri-State region (Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana). A $100 licensing fee will be charged by the University on an annual basis for gross sales up to $1,000 per year with the following additional fees payable at the end of the year if annual gross sales exceed $1,000; $50 for gross sales between $1,000 and $1,500 $100 for gross sales between $1,000 and $2,000 $150 for gross sales between $1,000 and $2,500; and An additional 12% royalty is payable on gross sales in excess of $2,500 Crafter is required to bear all risk in respect to articles and hold the University harmless. Crafter should consider purchasing product liability insurance. Licenses are valid for one calendar year and may be renewed, subject to review and approval by the University's Director of Trademarks & Licensing. Crafter's Program Process Crafter's License Application Please submit the form above if you are interested in obtaining a Crafter's License with the University of Cincinnati. The Trademarks & Licensing Office will review your form and get back to you within 3-5 days. If approved, you will receive a Crafter's License Agreement from the Trademarks & Licensing Office to review and sign. Once this Agreement is signed by you, the Crafter, the Director of Trademarks & Licensing will sign it, send an executed copy to you via email, and send an invoice for the licensee fee. Upon the execution of the License Agreement and receipt of the licensing fee, an Officially Licensed Craft certificate will be provided by the University of the Crafter to display. Officially Licensed Collegiate hologram stickers are not provided under the University of Cincinnati Crafters Program, but Crafter licensees are required to display their Certificate(s) when selling their licensed articles. University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 licensing@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top