Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research DEI Initiatives Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate PhD in Clinical Psychology About the ProgramWelcoming DiversityClinical FacultyChild ClinicalClinical Health PsychologyPsychotherapy ResearchAdmissionClinical Student HandbookClinical Program AnnouncementsClinical Alumni News PhD in Experimental Psychology About the ProgramExperimental FacultyCognitiveBehavioral NeuroscienceRequired CoursesAdmissionFinancial Support PhD in School Psychology About the Programs Program Overview School Faculty Historical Statement Financial Support Program Philosophy and Training Model Program Competencies School Psychology Doctoral Handbook School Psychology Association Child & Family Studies Research Group MA/Ed.S. in School Psychology About the ProgramsProgram OverviewSchool FacultyM.A./Ed.S. Program GoalsHistorical StatementFinancial SupportSchool Psychology MA/ED.S. HandbookSchool Psychology AssociationWhat is a School Psychologist?Child & Family Studies Research Group Masters in General Psychology About the ProgramProgram GoalsRequired CoursesAdmission Apply to Psychology Graduate Programs Instructions for ApplyingApply Now Graduate Student Coordinating Committee About GSCCGSCC Concerns/ComplaintsGSCC Travel Funding Graduate Program Forms and Resources Clinical Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data School Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data Take Action Psychology Advanced Degrees Academic Advising & Resource Center (AARC) The Psychological Services Center Teaching Take-Out Facebook Home Department of Psychology Graduate School Psychology M.S./Ph.D. Program Goals and Objectives Competencies Expected of Students 1. Research Students will demonstrate knowledge, skills, and competence sufficient to produce new knowledge, to critically evaluate and use existing knowledge to solve problems, and to disseminate research. They are expected to Demonstrate the substantially independent ability to formulate research or other scholarly activities (e.g., critical literature reviews, dissertation, efficacy studies, clinical case studies, theoretical papers, program evaluation projects, program development projects) that are of sufficient quality and rigor to have the potential to contribute to the scientific, psychological, or professional knowledge base. Conduct research or other scholarly activities. Critically evaluate and disseminate research or other scholarly activity via professional publication and presentation at the local (including the host institution), regional, or national level. Demonstrate the substantially independent ability to critically evaluate and disseminate research or other scholarly activities (e.g., case conference, presentation, publications) at the local (including the host institution), regional, or national level. 2. Ethical and Legal Standards Students will follow legal and ethical standards in increasingly complex situations with a greater degree of independence across levels of training. They are expected to Be knowledgeable of and act in accordance with each of the following: the current version of the APA Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct; relevant laws, regulations, rules, and policies governing health service psychology at the organizational, local, state, regional, and federal levels; and relevant professional standards and guidelines. Recognize ethical dilemmas as they arise, and apply ethical decision-making processes in order to resolve the dilemmas. Conduct self in an ethical manner in all professional activities. 3. Individual and Cultural Diversity Students will demonstrate the ability to conduct all professional activities with sensitivity to human diversity, including the ability to deliver high quality services to an increasingly diverse population, in increasingly complex situations with a greater degree of independence as they progress across levels of training. They are expected to demonstrate an understanding of how their own personal/cultural history, attitudes, and biases may affect how they understand and interact with people different from themselves; display knowledge of the current theoretical and empirical knowledge base as it relates to addressing diversity in all professional activities including research, training, supervision/consultation, and service; possess the ability to integrate awareness and knowledge of individual and cultural differences in the conduct of professional roles (e.g., research, services, and other professional activities). Demonstrate the requisite knowledge base, ability to articulate an approach to working effectively with diverse individuals and groups, and apply this approach effectively in their professional work. Demonstrate the ability to independently apply their knowledge and approach in working effectively with the range of diverse individuals and groups. 4. Professional Values and Attitudes Students will demonstrate professional values and attitudes in increasingly complex situations with a greater degree of independence across levels of training. They are expected to Behave in ways that reflect the values and attitudes of psychology, including integrity, deportment, professional identity, accountability, lifelong learning, and concern for the welfare of others. Engage in self-reflection regarding one’s personal and professional functioning; engage in activities to maintain and improve performance, well-being, and professional effectiveness. Actively seek and demonstrate openness and responsiveness to feedback and supervision. Respond professionally in increasingly complex situations with a greater degree of independence as they progress across levels of training. Demonstrate the ability to independently apply their knowledge and approach in working effectively with the range of diverse individuals and groups encountered during internship. 5. Communication and Interpersonal Skills Students will demonstrated professional communication and interpersonal skills in increasingly complex situations with a greater degree of independence across levels of training. They are expected to Develop and maintain effective relationships with a wide range of individuals, including colleagues, communities, organizations, supervisors, supervisees, and those receiving professional services. Produce and comprehend oral, nonverbal, and written communications that are informative and well-integrated; demonstrate a thorough grasp of professional language and concepts. Demonstrate effective interpersonal skills and the ability to manage difficult communication well. 6. Assessment Students will demonstrate competence in conducting evidence-based assessment in increasingly complex situations with a greater degree of independence across levels of training. They are expected to Demonstrate current knowledge of diagnostic classification systems, functional and dysfunctional behaviors, including consideration of client strengths and psychopathology. Demonstrate understanding of human behavior within its context (e.g., family, social, societal and cultural). Demonstrate the ability to apply the knowledge of functional and dysfunctional behaviors including context to the assessment and/or diagnostic process. Select and apply assessment methods that draw from the best available empirical literature and that reflect the science of measurement and psychometrics; collect relevant data using multiple sources and methods appropriate to the identified goals and questions of the assessment as well as relevant diversity characteristics of the service recipient. Interpret assessment results, following current research and professional standards and guidelines, to inform case conceptualization, classification, and recommendations, while guarding against decision-making biases, distinguishing the aspects of assessment that are subjective from those that are objective. Communicate orally and in written documents the findings and implications of the assessment in an accurate and effective manner sensitive to a range of audiences. 7. Intervention Students will demonstrate competence in developing, conducting, and evaluating evidence-based interventions in increasingly complex situations with a greater degree of independence across levels of training. They are expected to Establish and maintain effective relationships with the recipients of psychological services. Develop evidence-based intervention plans specific to the service delivery goals. Implement interventions informed by the current scientific literature, assessment findings, diversity characteristics, and contextual variables. Demonstrate the ability to apply the relevant research literature to clinical decision making. modify and adapt evidence-based approaches effectively when a clear evidence-base is lacking, Evaluate intervention effectiveness, and adapt intervention goals and methods consistent with ongoing evaluation. 8. Supervision Students will demonstrate competency in supervision through mentoring and monitoring of trainees and others in the development of competence and skill in professional practice and the effective evaluation of those skills. They are expected to Demonstrate knowledge of supervision models and practices. Apply this knowledge in direct or simulated practice with psychology trainees, or other health professionals. Examples of direct or simulated practice examples of supervision include, but are not limited to, role-played supervision with others, and peer supervision with other trainees. 9. Consultation and Interprofessional/Interdisciplinary Skills Students will demonstrate competence in consultation and interprofessional/interdisciplinary interactions in increasingly complex situations with a greater degree of independence across levels of training. They are expected to Demonstrate knowledge and respect for the roles and perspectives of other professions. Demonstrates knowledge of consultation models and practices. Apply this knowledge in direct or simulated consultation with individuals and their families, other health care professionals, interprofessional groups, or systems related to health and behavior. Direct or simulated practice examples include but are not limited to (a) role-played consultation with others and (b) peer consultation, provision of consultation to other trainees. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.