Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences Sociology 211 Savery Hall 206-543-5882 Website Faculty Website uwsoc@uw.edu Sociology is the scientific study of people in groups - from friendship networks to communities to nations. Sociologists describe the characteristics of social groups and consider explanations for social stability and social change. They promote critical thinking on issues such as social stratification, racial and ethnic disparities, law and justice, social and political movements, immigration, education, health, the family, and the role of gender and sexuality. The undergraduate major in sociology provides students with knowledge of and a perspective on social life that transcends their personal experience and helps them develop a deep understanding of important trends in modern society. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Sociology Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Sociology Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Sociology) Doctor Of Philosophy (Sociology) Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Sociology) Master Of Arts (Sociology) Undergraduate Program Sociology 203 Savery Hall 206-543-5396 asksoc@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Sociology Program Overview Sociology is the scientific study of people in groups -- from friendship networks to communities to entire nations. Sociologists describe the characteristics of social groups and consider explanations for social stability and social change. They promote critical thinking on issues such as social inequality, racial and ethnic conflict, law and justice, social and political movements, immigration, education, health, the family, and the role of gender and sexuality. The undergraduate major in sociology provides students with knowledge of and a perspective on social life that transcends their personal experience and helps them develop a deep understanding of important trends in modern society. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Sociology Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: SOC 110, SOC 212, SOC 240, SOC 270, or any 200-level sociology courses. General coursework developing critical thinking or analytical skills. Admission Requirements Introductory courses (10 credits): SOC 300 (may be in progress at time of application). Any additional 5 credit sociology course. Minimum 2.0 grade for completed course(s) required for admission. Minimum 2.00 cumulative UW GPA. Application: See department website for information required as part of application packet. Exceptions based on special circumstances are reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Application deadlines are the first Friday of each quarter. All applicants who meet the qualifications stated above are admitted in time to register as sociology majors for the following quarter. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Sociology Credential Overview The Department of Sociology has a strong commitment to undergraduate research, methodological training, and experiential learning, and is dedicated to providing a rich program of study, both for students majoring in sociology and for others who wish to learn about human society and social relations. Completion Requirements 50 credits Introductory courses (10 credits): SOC 300 and any additional 5 credit sociology course Statistics and theory (10 credits): one of STAT 220, STAT 221/SOC 221/CS&SS 221, STAT 290, or STAT 311 (5 credits) SOC 316 (5 credits) Upper-division sociology electives (20 credits): Any 300-level or 400-level sociology courses, excluding SOC 316, SOC 395, SOC 399, SOC 499 Sociology electives (10 credits): Any additional sociology courses, with a maximum 5 credits of either SOC 399 or SOC 499 Maximum 10 credits from sociology practicum coursework (SOC 402, SOC 403, SOC 404, or SOC 494) may apply to elective major requirements. Maximum 5 credits from sociology practicum coursework may apply toward the upper-division elective requirement. Academic standards: Minimum 2.0 grade in any course applied to major requirements. Minimum cumulative 2.50 GPA for courses applied to major requirements. 25 of 50 required sociology credits completed in residence through the UW. Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The Department of Sociology's undergraduate degree is designed to teach majors to think systematically about the relationships among individuals, groups, organizations, and societies. Sociology majors engage current research in political sociology, social stratification, race and ethnicity, deviance and social control, demography and other areas, and develop quantitative and analytical skills in research methods and social theory courses. Instructional and Research Facilities: The Center for Social Science Computing and Research (CSSCR) maintains an extensive data archive, and offers consulting support and computer lab access to students in sociology courses. The Center for Studies in Demography and Ecology (CSDE) and the Center for Statistics and the Social Sciences (CSSS) provide interdisciplinary courses, seminars, and research opportunities for sociology students. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Sociology majors participate in a variety of internships each quarter. Students can receive academic credit under the supervision of a Sociology faculty member. See adviser for details. Department Scholarships: None offered. Student Organizations/Associations: A chapter of the Alpha Kappa Delta International Sociology Honor Society organizes events involving undergraduates with faculty and graduate students. Graduate Programs Sociology 206-221-3280 socadvis@uw.edu Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Sociology) This program of study leads to the following credential: Doctor Of Philosophy (Sociology) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Sociology) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Sociology) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Arts (Sociology) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts (Sociology) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA