Benefits - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Human Resources Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Human Resources About HR Careers Careers HR Service Center I-9 and eVerify FML Employee Verification Prior State Service CHRI Request Employees Staff Scholarships New Employees Foreign National Employees Graduate Students Temporary Student Employees Employee Recognition Program HR Departments Benefits Family and Medical Leave Act Information ERS Annual Enrollment Benefits at a Glance Benefits Updates Employee Assistance Program ERS Annual Enrollment - TexFlex Insurance Retirement Worker's Compensation at UH Benefits FAQs Compensation HR Business Partners Reduction in Force Employee Terminations Payroll Services Talent Acquisition Why Work for UH? Staff Employment NHO Request CHRI Request Talent Development Virtual Training LinkedIn Learning Policies SAM HR Policies MAPP HR Policies Common Policies & Resources Administrative Responsibility ACA E-Verify FLSA Regulations Update Fitness Release Time and Wellness Leave Policy Workplace Posters PASS Navigation HR Communication HR Online Resource Guide Quick Links: Why Work for UH? Staff Employment POWER UP Wellness UH Holiday Schedule Forms CATALYST App Volunteer Information HR COVID-19 Information UH Home Human Resources Benefits Benefits Page contents: Intro Benefits At-A-Glance Insurance Retirement Wellness FAQs Welcome to the Powerhouse We know that benefits are one of the most important aspects of employment. As an employee of the University of Houston System, you have access to a wide variety of health benefits to meet your lifestyle goals, and the health needs of you and your family. Additionally, our retirement plans and our supplemental saving options offer different alternatives for all types of employees in different career stages. As a member of the national Partnership for a Healthier America, Healthier Campus Initiative, the University understands the importance of the health and wellness of our employees and their families. It is our hope that you will take full advantage of all the benefits and wellness offerings available to you and your family now and in the years to come. Sincerely, Gaston Reinoso Associate VC/VP, Human Resources Need assistance with your benefits? Phone: 713-743-3988 Email: hrben@central.uh.edu Announcements Annual HR Retirement Seminar Mark your calendars and save the dates! Don’t miss the University of Houston’s Annual HR Retirement Seminar hosted by the Human Resources Benefits department. Sessions will occur over two days and will feature 5 virtual workshops with representatives from the Social Security Administration, TRS, ERS and Texa$aver 457(b). Join us for this important seminar to better understand and navigate the retirement process! Click here to learn more! Important TexFlex Updates Due to COVID-19 The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021 contains provisions that allow for changes to the existing TexFlex program. Learn what these TexFlex changes are, including changes to Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) and Commuter Spending Accounts (CSAs) and what they mean for your by clicking here or visit www.TexFlexERS.com. Benefits Calendar View All Events Jun 02 10:00 am TIAA - Hindsight 2020: Learning from the Past to Prepare for the Future Join the Human Resources Benefits team for Hindsight 2020: Learning from the Past to Prepare for the Future. Presented by TIAA Financial Consultant Nick Levy, this live webinar will examine the financial lessons learned from the past few years of living through the pandemic. Jun 07 2:00 pm TIAA - Hindsight 2020: Learning from the Past to Prepare for the Future Join the Human Resources Benefits team for Hindsight 2020: Learning from the Past to Prepare for the Future. Presented by TIAA Financial Consultant Nick Levy, this live webinar will examine the financial lessons learned from the past few years of living through the pandemic. Jun 12 10:00 am Fitness Connect Community Talk about wellness topics and share your successes and challenges! Monthly sessions, featuring presentations by BCBSTX wellness consultants, can help you get fit and stay healthy. Each month, you’ll have the opportunity to connect with other participants and share your experiences. Jun 16 10:00 am Journey to Wellness: HealthSelect Wellness Benefits Overview As a HealthSelectSM participant, you have access to a variety of health and wellness resources, including webinars presented by the Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Texas Wellness Team. “Journey to Wellness” to learn all about the different wellness resources available to you! To register and attend, click here. Jul 12 10:00 am Fitness Connect Community Talk about wellness topics and share your successes and challenges! Monthly sessions, featuring presentations by BCBSTX wellness consultants, can help you get fit and stay healthy. Each month, you’ll have the opportunity to connect with other participants and share your experiences. Retirement Planning Simplified Do not wait to plan for a successful retirement! View one or more of the presentations below to learn the basics of retirement planning, including where to start, initial steps to take, and what to do next to achieve a prosperous and secure future. HR Benefits: Retirement Planning Simplified Spanish - HR Benefits: Retirement Planning Simplified AIG: Introducing Retirement Pathfinder Fidelity: Create a Budget Fidelity: Manage your Debt TexaSaver: 457 Overview Presentation TIAA: The Starting Line Voya: Foundations of Financial Wellness Benefits Expand AllCollapse All Plans Official Benefits Plans Medical Insurance Optional Benefits Flexible Spending Plans Benefits Resources Benefits FAQs Employee Assistance Program (EAP) The UH Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a confidential counseling and referral program that is available to eligible employees and their families. Whether you want to resolve a stressful work situation, find legal resources or get advice about a financial concern, the EAP can help. Bright Horizon Back Up Care Bright Horizons Back-Up Child and Elder Care The University is pleased to announce a new benefit available to UH employees, Bright Horizons Back-up Child Care and Elder Care. Bright Horizons helps employees better manage their work, family and personal responsibilities by offering up to 10 days of emergency care per employee per year at subsidized rates for work-related reasons. Center-based Back-up Child Care is $15 per child, per day or $25 per family per day. In-home care is $6 per hour for up to three care recipients, with a four hour minimum. Home-based Back-up Elder Care is $6 per hour for up to three care recipients, with a four hour minimum. Assistance is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. For program details and to pre-register your family for future care needs, visit Bright Horizon’s Care Advantage website. Back-Up Username: UH Back-Up Password: care4you or Call: 877-BH-CARES (242-2737) Power Up Registration Links Health Insurance Benefits Eligibility Faculty and staff who work 20 hours or more per week for a period of 4.5 months or longer in a fiscal year (September through August) are eligible for some benefits, while other benefits are available to employees with 12 month appointments or who work an average of at least 30 hours per week. Benefits Elections An employee has 30 days from the date of hire/benefits eligibility to elect optional benefits such as dental, vision, or life insurance. An employee has 60 days to select a medical insurance plan and add dependents, otherwise their medical benefits will default to Health Select insurance for self only. These election windows are regardless of any state or university holidays, or university closures. It is the employee's responsibility to learn about their benefits options and make elections in a timely manner. Unless otherwise instructed, employees should make their benefits elections online at the ERS Website. Enrollment Dental Optional Life Disability Retirement Plans All regular, benefits-eligible employees are required by state law to participate in one of two retirement programs offered by the university: Teacher Retirement System of Texas (TRS) or Optional Retirement Program (ORP). In addition to these two programs, all benefits-eligible employees may participate in one or both of our voluntary savings options: Tax Deferred Annuity (TDA) Deferred Compensation Retirement@Work Single Sign-on R@W Overview POWER UP Wellness The University of Houston wants to be your partner in meeting and exceeding your wellness lifestyle goals. A number of programs and services to support employee health and wellness can be found throughout the campus. These include work/life support resources offered through the POWER UP Employee Wellness Program, the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), and an array of on- and off- campus Employee Perks! POWER UP Registration Links University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies