Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Penn A-Z Penn Calendar Department of English Search form SearchSearch Department of English Home About Courses People Undergraduate intellectual life Graduate News Events Login Undergraduate About Events The Major The Minor Research Opportunities Summer Internships Alumni Mentor Database Student Directory Transfer Credit Submatriculation Sigma Tau Delta Undergraduate Advisory Board The Honors Program Prizes London Programs Forms The English UAB The English Undergraduate Advisory Board (UAB) is a group of dedicated students who take charge of initiatives and events designed to foster a sense of community in the Undergraduate Program of the Department of English. The UAB serves as the voice for undergraduates to the department. The UAB has two headlining activities: The Winter Social, a themed reception held early in the spring to celebrate the Penn English community; the UAB chooses a theme and decide on any desired swag and refreshments. In some years, the UAB also selects a text to be read over break and informally discussed at the reception; and Teaching and Advising Prizes, for which the UAB facilitates the selection of faculty for two major awards and announces them at the department’s end-of-year reception. And the English UAB does much, much more! Over the years, this lively board has hosted distinguished writers and scholars, including Monty Python’s Terry Jones and bestselling authors Susan Jane Gilman and (Penn English Alum!) Jennifer Egan; run marathon readings like “Austen ‘til it Hurts” and a faculty-student play – an extremely abridged version of Shakespeare’s complete works. Recently, the UAB has presided over a number of gatherings – festive and ruminative – to bring students together and launched a newsletter to feature stellar courses and students. The English Undergraduate Advisory Board welcomes new members! Membership is open to students not majoring or minoring in English – you only need to be interested in Englishy things. Please contact the 2021-2022 co-chairs, Anna Collins (annacoll@sas.upenn.edu) and Claire Medina (cemedina@sas.upenn.edu). Previous UAB Events and Reading Projects Undergraduate About Events The Major The Minor Research Opportunities Summer Internships Alumni Mentor Database Student Directory Transfer Credit Submatriculation Sigma Tau Delta Undergraduate Advisory Board The Honors Program Prizes London Programs Forms Arts & Sciences Links Academic Departments Faculty Index Computing Facilities Penn Resources Libraries Directory News PennOpen Pass Departmental Resources Fisher-Bennett Hall Business Office Computing Classroom Technologies Libraries Business Procedures Related Programs Useful Links for Faculty and Staff CFP - Call for Papers Forms Visiting Scholars Contact Department of English University of Pennsylvania Fisher-Bennett Hall, room 127 3340 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA, 19104-6273 Phone: (215) 898-7341 Fax: (215) 573-2063 info@english.upenn.edu Social Media facebook YouTube twitter © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania