Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Life in Providence Brown is located in the heart of Providence, R.I., a vibrant place to live, work and study and a city rich in cultural diversity. Breadcrumb Home Life at Brown Sub Navigation In This Section Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events Life in Providence Brown is located in the heart of Providence, R.I., a vibrant place to live, work and study and a city rich in cultural diversity. Brown's campus on College Hill offers a classic New England college experience among brick quadrangles, scenic greens, soaring modern architecture, renovated centuries-old structures, state-of-the-art laboratories and world-class libraries. All of this is located within the heart of Rhode Island’s vibrant capital city, known for its restaurants, innovative arts scene, youthful energy and unpretentious vibe. 9 Reasons to Live and Learn in Providence Boombox karaoke: If you’re feeling bold, belt out a tune in front of your friends (and welcoming strangers). Waterfire: Imagine 100 sparking bonfires on the rivers of downtown, with world music echoing off the arched bridges and skyscrapers. It’s the brainchild of a Brown graduate. Waterfire, in Providence, RI, is the brainchild of a Brown graduate. Fantastic foodie culture: Providence is home to an ever-expanding menu of fresh and inventive dining. Even the doughnuts are artisanal. Riverwalk Park: This riverside park is a great place to walk, bike or just relax. The Providence Flea: Don’t miss the fall markets, where you’ll find antiques, small treasures and food trucks galore. Brown's campus on College Hill offers a classic New England college experience within the heart of Rhode Island’s vibrant capital city. The Avon Cinema: This Art Deco gem has been showing independent and art house movies since 1938. RISD Museum: Discover at the museum for the Rhode Island School of Design an amazing collection of art and design from around the world — and one of the largest university art collections in the U.S. (It’s free to Brown students.) College Hill: Historic architecture meets laid-back coffee shops on these serene, tree-lined streets. Brown University: Renowned for our innovative undergraduate education and groundbreaking research, Brown is home to classic quadrangles, state-of-the-art laboratories and world-class libraries. Arts and Culture Even beyond Brown's campus-based arts scene, Providence is a hub for performance. The city's signature WaterFire installation is a highlight. Nationally recognized theater company Trinity Rep is within walking distance of campus and home of the Brown/Trinity MFA program. And you can find live performances at the Providence Performing Arts Center, the VETS and the Columbus Theatre. Food and Dining Home to one of the leading culinary schools in the country, Providence is a magnet for "foodies" because of its acclaimed restaurant scene. Offerings range from Korean pancakes, veggie tacos, inventive food-truck fare, gourmet donuts and farm-to-table delicacies. The Heart of New England Providence is a great starting point for outdoor recreation, with numerous parks, biking trails and nearby hikes. The Narragansett Bay and ocean are just a short drive away. Providence is located 50 miles from Boston and 180 miles from New York City. The city itself is a great starting point for outdoor recreation, with numerous parks, biking trails and nearby hikes. The ocean is just a short drive away. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Life in Providence Open details for Life in Providence Bookmark this Page