Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Graduate Student Government Grad Student Government right arrow down arrow About us right arrow down arrow GSG Executive Board GSG Constitution right arrow down arrow GSG Bylaws GSG Member Groups List Awards right arrow down arrow Group Budget Awards Group & Community Grant Awards Conference Awards GSG Excellence Awards right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Risk Management Awareness Award GSG Research Fellowship Awards Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Talk to Us Programs right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Orientation and Welcome right arrow down arrow GSA Officer Orientation Home » Campus Life » Graduate Student Government » About us Set Navigation title in component GSG Executive Board GSG Constitution GSG Bylaws GSG Member Groups List About us The Graduate Student Government (GSG) is run by graduate students, for graduate students. It serves as the executive board for the Graduate Student Assembly, which is comprised of representatives from each Graduate Student Association. The Graduate Student Government acts as a liaison between the University administration and the Graduate student body; serves the needs of Bearcats and enhances the student experience at the University of Cincinnati; strives to make the graduate student experience as beneficialas possible to students and the University; advocates on behalf of the graduate student population; promotes research and educational goals beyond what is merely required for a degree; establishes bonds between graduate students and other university populations; GSG Executive board Leading the GSG are the four members of the executive board, who develop initiatives, work with university leadership on a variety of issues and represent graduate student interests at UC. GSG Member Groups The GSG is the governing body of all academic-based Graduate Student Associations (or “groups”) at UC. All graduate students in UC are automatically members of their corresponding GSAs depending on their area of study.Replace with your text There are 40 different GSAs registered under the GSG. All GSAs must register with both the GSG and with Student Activities and Leadership Development (SALD). There can only be one graduate group per program registered. Several programs may be combined under one GSA. GSG registration helps secure funding for GSAs (Group Budget Awards and Group Grant Awards) and their graduate student constituents (Student Awards). GSAs can create programs for their students using these funds. Each GSA must send a representative/officer to attend the monthly GSG General Assembly meetings in order to maintain its membership in the GSG. The list of Graduate Student Associations registered with the GSG for the year 2020-2021 will be available on the website after SALD registration deadline. GSG General Assembly The GSG Executive body convenes a meeting of all GSG officers and individual GSA representatives on the first Wednesday of every month from September - April. This GSG General Assembly is a great opportunity for GSG officers to share information and to discuss the issues and initiatives of the graduate student community here at UC. The GSG budget approval and other important agenda items are also discussed in these meetings. Any concerns or issues being faced by graduate students can be brought to the attention of the GSG Officers. To attend the GSG General Assembly please contact the GSG Executive board or the GSG Member group officers. GSG Committees The GSG plays a huge role in the decision making process regarding policies and procedures that affect graduate student life. The GSG Executive Board along with various Committee Representatives from each GSA serve on various University Wide Committees throughout the year. Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top