Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Student Services Student Life Student Life Student Life GS Student Life provides many programs that explore issues around academics, diversity, wellness, social justice, leadership, civic responsibility, and self awareness. Mission Statement Student Life at the School of General Studies is committed to fostering a welcoming and inclusive community that celebrates the diverse experiences of the GS student body. Our mission is to ensure that every GS student is included in the Columbia University and GS community, has the opportunity to participate in co-curricular learning and development opportunities, and is able to connect with GS alumni, Columbia faculty and staff, and New York City. Get Involved Students are encouraged to become involved in all aspects of life at Columbia University. These are various opportunities for you to become involved with GS Student Life: Become a GS Student Life Volunteer Join one of the 500+ student organizations on campus Learn about leadership development opportunities Student Engagement GS Student Life provides engagement opportunities for GS students to facilitate connections for students with faculty, alumni, and staff; to learn about professional opportunities; to explore NYC and New York State; and to support specific populations at GS. Mid-Semester Success Series Student & Alumni Programs NYC & New York State Excursions Student Life Resources ticket icon Subsidized Tickets building icon GS Student Lounge handshake icon Policies dollar icon Funding Requests paperclip icon Student Life Fee lock icon Lerner Locker Information Upcoming Student Life Events There are no upcoming events. More Events Meet the GS Student Life Team Ying Liu Victoria Rosner '90CC, '92GSAS, '99GSAS Vera Bagnyuk Vanessa Karahalios Dean Karahalios joined GS in 2002. She collaborates with senior staff at GS and other University offices on matters related to student academic records and standards such as degree certification, major declaration, academic review, academic planning sessions and core requirements for matriculating students with review of the relevant policies and procedures. Prior to GS, Dean Karahalios held positions as faculty advisor and assistant dean at the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Virginia. An award-winning teacher in classics, she has taught courses on strategies for academic success, Latin, and ancient and modern Greek. She holds a BA from Cornell University and an MA from the University of Virginia. Tiffany Decker Dean Decker joined GS in 2015. She leads the School's graduate and professional school initiatives, and in collaboration with the Office of Undergraduate Research and Fellowships, develops new initiatives to support undergraduate research. She also assists with curriculum development for GS's international dual- and joint-degree programs, helping build degree plans across a range of academic disciplines. Prior to joining GS, Dean Decker worked at MIT, where she focused on access for underrepresented students into STEM fields. In this role she was recognized by Harvard and Google for her pioneering research initiatives. A native Californian, Dean Decker moved across the country to start her career as an English teacher with Teach for America in Paterson, New Jersey. In this role, she was named a District Model Teacher. A first-generation college student, Dean Decker’s scholarship focuses on student access to tertiary and graduate education. She holds a B.A. in English and history from Agnes Scott College and an M.S.Ed. in higher education administration from the University of Pennsylvania. Tessie Scroggins Taylor Grace Cook Stephanie Tran Stephanie Montero Stephanie joined GS in 2016. Before joining GS Student Life, she worked in the GS Dean of Students Office as an administrative coordinator. Stephanie holds a B.A. in political science from John Jay College of Criminal Justice and is currently completing an MSEd in higher education administration at the Baruch College School of Public Affairs. She manages the daily operations of the office and assists with the coordination of all events planned by GS Student Life, the Dean of Students Office, and Academic Affairs, including graduation and the New Student Orientation Program. Additionally, she manages the allocation of student lockers and assists with space and venue reservations for GS students and staff. Smaragda Safos Skylar Failla Skip Bailey Sean Trulby Sean joined the School of General Studies in 2010. At GS, Sean oversees GS Student Life and advises the General Studies Student Council (GSSC). Sean received a B.S. in marketing from Rutgers University and an Ed.M. in higher education administration and student affairs from the Graduate School of Education at Rutgers University. Sean enjoys traveling, cooking, exploring New York City, and skiing in his leisure time. Sara Remedios Dean Remedios directs the Academic Resource Center in addition to overseeing the Dean of Students Office's academic and learning initiatives. Prior to joining GS, she worked to restructure the CUNY Pipeline Honors Program, dedicated to assisting exceptional undergraduate students from underrepresented backgrounds in gaining admission to doctoral programs. She is also an accomplished teacher. Dean Remedios holds a B.A. in English and political science from Washington University in St. Louis (2009), an M.Phil. in English literature from the City University of New York (2014), and a Ph.D. in English literature from the City University of New York (2016). Sara Ede Dean Ede joined GS in 2018 and has a long history with Columbia University. From 2010-2016, Dean Ede was the Associate Director of Global Education in the Office of Global Programs before joining GS as an advising dean from 2016-2017. As an avid traveler and supporter of international education, Dean Ede spent time studying Spanish and traveling abroad before serving as the Outbound Advising Manager for government-sponsored scholarships and fellowships, including the Gilman Scholarship and the Boren Awards, at the Institute of International Education from 2017-2018. Dean Ede holds a B.A. in anthropology and archaeology from Tufts University and an M.A. in international education from SIT’s Graduate Institute. Ryan Bermudez Rory Placa Robert Hoffmeister Rafaelina Marmol Patrick Smith '07SIPA Olivia Austin Noah Kutzy Nathaniel Wilcox Nathaniel Malone Nathanael Inglis Natalie Jankowski Michael Gratale Matthew Rotstein Marlyn Delva '98BC, '99TC, '13TC Dean of Students, School of General Studies Assistant Professor of Epidemiology and Sociomedical Sciences Maria Enriquez Mandeep Singh Lisa Rosen-Metsch '90GS Dean, School of General Studies Professor of Sociomedical Sciences Lisa Mata '13GS Lindsey Siferd Linda Johnson Limary Carrasquillo '02TC Dean Carrasquillo advises Postbac Premed and undergraduate premedical, preveterinary, and predental students. Prior to joining the Postbac Premed Program, she served as an academic advisor for undergraduate and graduate students at New York University School of Continuing and Professional Studies. She earned a B.A. from Harvard University and an M.A. in student personnel administration in higher education from Teachers College, Columbia University Kristy Barbacane '12GSAS Dean Barbacane joined GS in 2019 with a wealth of experience in academic advising and a long history with Columbia. Before coming to GS, she was an assistant dean of graduate student affairs at Columbia Engineering, where she was responsible for the planning, implementation, and management of programs and services to support graduate students. Before that, she held roles as Director of Advising at the Peabody Institute of Johns Hopkins University and as a senior advising dean in the Berick Center for Student Advising at Columbia College and Columbia Engineering. Her teaching experience includes teaching music history courses at Barnard, Fordham, and Columbia. Dean Barbacane completed her Ph.D. in historical musicology from Columbia University and her research interests include nineteenth-century French music and the relationship between colonialism and music. Kristen Bayley Kimberly Christel Keith Windsor Dean Windsor joined the GS Dean of Students Office in 2021. He previously held a position at Barnard College where he served as Associate Director of Opportunity Programs, a role that combined academic advising, workshops for students, collaboration with faculty, and much more. Dean Windsor has also worked at Marymount Manhattan College and has extensive experience advising international students, FLI students, and students focused on STEM. Keith holds B.A. and M.S.Ed. degrees from St. Bonaventure University. Katherine Strzalkowski Dean Strzalkowski joined GS in 2016. Before coming to GS, she spent two years with the Office of Student Affairs at the Columbia Business School, working as a member of the academic team. At GS, Dean Strzalkowski serves as the study abroad advisor for Columbia-administered programs and as the liaison to the Office of Global Programs and the SEE-U program. She also assists with developing programming to support the international student community at GS. Dean Strzalkowski completed her B.A. in history at the University of Michigan, where she was a member of the varsity rowing team. She also holds an MSt in modern British and European history from Oxford University and an M.Ed. in college student affairs from Rutgers University. Kari Razdow '08TC Joshua Edwin Dean Edwin joined the GS Dean of Students Office in 2014. His role includes working in academic support programs, teaching University Studies, and advising on health and wellness issues. His teaching experience at Columbia includes creative writing workshops for veterans and GS sections of University Writing, as well as consulting in the Writing Center. He has published widely as a poet, translator, and reviewer. Dean Edwin holds a B.A. in English and creative writing from Emory University and an M.F.A. in poetry and literary translation from Columbia University's School of the Arts. Jordan Jeffries Jonathan Wiggins Jonathan joined the School of General Studies in August of 2020. He serves as the Assistant Director of Residence Life & Housing at GS and plays a key role in supporting residential students and community engagement initiatives for students living on campus. He is passionate about providing spaces and opportunities for students to be in community and learn from one another. Prior to joining GS, Jonathan worked at New York University where he served as a Residence Hall Assistant Director and the University at Albany as a Residence Hall Director. Jonathan holds a B.A. in Political Science and M.S. in Educational Administration and Policy Studies with a concentration in Higher Education, both from the University at Albany. Jonathan truly enjoys working with students and helping students develop during their time at Columbia. In his free time, he enjoys traveling and exploring New York City. Jill Galas Hickey Jessica Sarles-Dinsick Jeanice Roberts Jawad Cipriani Jawad joined the School of General Studies in 2013. As Associate Director of Special Event & Programs, he oversees and collaborates on all special events throughout the school. Prior to joining GS, Jawad worked at Prep for Prep, an educational nonprofit in New York City with the objective of identifying and developing leadership in underrepresented groups. Jawad holds a B.A. in critical social studies with a concentration in marginalized populations from Hobart & William Smith Colleges and an M.S. in higher education from Syracuse University. In his spare time, he likes eating spicy food, running, and cheering on Syracuse basketball. Jamison Galloway James Colgrove ’01 MSPH, ’04 GSAS Dean of the Postbaccalaureate Premedical Program Ivonne Rojas '12GSAS Dean Rojas joined Columbia University in 2007, working in development at the Business School. Before joining the GS Dean of Students Office, she spent more than three years as part of the admissions team, traveling to community colleges across the country to attend transfer fairs and host information sessions for nontraditional undergraduates. As part of the admissions committee, she evaluated applications and assessed transfer credit for incoming students. She earned a B.A. in psychology from Brown University and an M.A. in American studies from Columbia University. Isoke Davis Hurneet Singh Glenn Novarr Dean Novarr joined GS in 2009. As a mentor to fellowship candidates and Postbac Premed students, he helps students assess the meaning of their lives' trajectories, identify their long-term goals, and express their intellectual interests in comprehensible and appealing ways. He also assists in managing the academic honors and prizes awarded by the college. He holds degrees in English literature, law, and political philosophy and has 15 years of experience as an educator. Fernanda Martinez Evangelyn Diaz Evan Johnson Esfir Shamilova Emmett Ingram Elizabeth Hernandez '11TC Elizabeth manages the Academic Resource Center (ARC) Tutoring Center, provides support for ARC programs, and works directly with students in academic support sessions. Prior to joining GS, she served as programs coordinator for the Columbia Center for Teaching and Learning, and has also worked with the International Center for Cooperation and Conflict Resolution at Teachers College. Elizabeth received her B.A. in psychology and Spanish from the University of Arizona and her M.A. in social-organizational psychology from Teachers College. During her time at Teachers College, she was awarded the Davis Projects for Peace grant and the Institute of Latin American Studies grant to develop and facilitate a series of conflict resolution workshops for teachers in Phoenix, Arizona and Bogotá, Colombia. Diana O'Donnell '11TC Debbie Rosenberg Bush David Keefe Dean Keefe is an award-winning artist, educator, and administrator who joined GS in 2015. From 2001-2009, he served as a Sergeant in the United States Marine Corps, and from 2006-2007 he completed a tour of combat duty in Iraq as a riverine infantry scout. For the last four years, he has directed the Combat Paper NJ Program (CPNJ) at the Printmaking Center of New Jersey, a community-building art program that brings veterans and non-veterans together to make paper and art out of military uniforms. For the last six years, Dean Keefe has been an Adjunct Professor of Art at Montclair State University where he developed and still teaches the Combat Paper for Veterans class, a course that uses the CPNJ model of storytelling and community building—the only class of its kind in the country. He holds an M.F.A. from Montclair State University and a B.F.A. from the University of Delaware. David Crumb '13SPS Daniel Rodriguez Dafna Gottesman Curtis Rodgers Vice Dean, School of General Studies Senior Advisor to the EVP of A&S and Dean of Faculty Christopher Connelly Christina Gray '15GS Brian Allen Dean Allen advises Postbac Premed and undergraduate premedical, preveterinary, and predental students. Prior to joining the Postbac Premed Program, he served as an advisor for students who were interested in careers in science. He earned a B.S. in computer science and an M.S. in college student personnel and administration from the University of Central Arkansas. Brandon Graham Dean Graham joined GS in 2018. Before joining GS, Dean Graham served as a Senior Academic Advisor at Borough of Manhattan Community College, the Junior Class Advisor for Eugene Lang College of Liberal Arts at The New School, and as a Career Advisor at Sacred Heart University. His dedication to education is supported by over a decade of professional experience in higher education, which includes academic advising, career education, and program development. Dean Graham holds a B.A. in English and an M.B.A., both from Sacred Heart University, and continues to study toward an M.A. in liberal studies with a concentration in urban education from the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. Boothvleen Charles Boute Benjamin Lee Aviva Zablocki Ashley Moody-Astwood Ashley joined the School of General Studies in the spring of 2020. As Student Life Program Manager, she supports the management and implementation of the School’s multicultural and social justice education programs, and serves as the lead for all Postbac Premed student programs, initiatives, and collaborations. In addition, she advises several GS-focused student organizations and contributes to various student engagement initiatives, including co-advising large-scale multicultural programming that includes all four of Columbia’s undergraduate colleges. Prior to joining GS, Ashley worked at Fairleigh Dickinson University (FDU), where she served in a dual role as Campus Life Coordinator of Greek Life and Housing Operations, and has significant knowledge and experience around diversity and inclusion best practices and student engagement development. Ashley holds a BA in humanities and an MA in criminal justice from FDU. In her spare time, she enjoys working out, traveling, and attending concerts and music festivals. Ashley Kuitunen '20TC Anna Cheng Angela Cole Quinlan Andrew Sunshine Dean Sunshine advises Postbac and undergraduate premedical, preveterinary, and predental students. In addition to his advising responsibilities, he is the Postbac Premed Program liaison for veterinary medicine, MD/ Ph.D. programs, and international students, and coordinates the linkage programs. Prior to joining the Postbac Premed Program, he was an assistant dean of students at Columbia College and the Fu Foundation School of Engineering & Applied Science. Dean Sunshine earned his A.B. from Columbia College and his Ph.D. from the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences at Columbia University. Amber Griffiths '15SW Dean Griffiths joined GS in 2016 and has a strong history with Columbia and GS. From 2009-2010, she worked as a financial aid counselor with Student Financial Services, providing counseling and guidance to new and continuing students on federal financial aid programs. She was named Columbia's first Manager of Military and Veterans Affairs in 2010, a position she held until 2014, and later served as Director of the Veteran Crisis and Suicide Prevention Program with Services for the Underserved. In 2016, she returned to Columba as an advising dean at GS, providing academic advisement to students and coordinating academic and learning initiatives for the Academic Resource Center. In 2019, she became the School's first Associate Dean of Student Wellness. In this role, she serves as the primary supervisor for all student wellness initiatives and the point person for emergency response, in coordination with campus and community partners. Dean Griffiths completed her B.A. at California State University Northridge, and her L-MSW at Columbia's School of Social Work in May 2015. Allison Scola Alicia Doshi Alessio Maritez-Larios Aldina Hot no photo photo of edit edit Contact Us GS Student Life staff members are committed to fostering a welcoming and inclusive community that celebrates your diverse experiences. Visit us near the GS Student Lounge! at icon [email protected] building icon 308B Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway, MC 4106 New York, NY 10027 phone icon (212) 854-9536 Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close