Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory ADVANCE at Brown Faculty Development ADVANCE at Brown Faculty Development Faculty Development Programs seek to provide fair and transparent access to resources that support career success at Brown University and the wider scientific community. These resources include a cross-departmental mentoring program for new tenure-track faculty and peer-mentoring groups for women science faculty. Our grants librarian works with faculty to identify funding opportunities and provides sponsored project support. In addition, we continue to work with stakeholders across campus to make visible and accessible family-friendly policies regarding such issues as the dual career protocol and dependent care resources. Faculty Development Programs 2012-2013 Science Seminar Series The 2012-2013 Science Seminar Series series hosted preeminent women scientists from a broad spectrum of STEM disciplines. The scientific lectures were free and open to the public. 2011-2012 Science Seminar Series The 2011-2012 Science Seminar Series series hosted preeminent women scientists from a broad spectrum of STEM disciplines. The scientific lectures were free and open to the public. Faculty Outreach and Networking Events (FONE) FONE is a monthly meeting designed to help faculty network and form research collaborations. Each session begins with an informal presentation on one of a range of professional development topics (grantseeking, leadership development, communicating science, etc.) followed by a reception. Faculty Mentoring Program The mentoring programs offer faculty members two options for participation, the One-to-One Faculty Mentoring Program and Peer-Mentoring Groups: 1. One-to-One Faculty Mentoring Program is a collaborative effort with Office of the Dean of the Faculty and the Office of the Dean of Biology & Medicine. It provides a formal mechanism for new tenure-track faculty to connect with a tenured faculty mentor from their own division but outside of their own department. The program is intended to help tenure-track faculty establish advisory relationships that will foster a path to career success at Brown without potential conflicts of interest. 2. Peer-Mentoring Groups provide STEM women faculty the opportunity to cultivate a circle of advisors. The networks serve to promote collaborative relationships that foster professional development at different stages of an academic career and decrease women science faculty's sense of isolation. Sponsored Project Support The underlying goal of sponsored project support is to increase external research funding for faculty, thus promoting their success at Brown as well as within their own scientific discipline. Contact our Funding Resources Specialist for assistance with grantseeking and proposal writing resources. Work-Life Balance We work with the Office of the Dean of the Faculty and Human Resources to promote family-friendly policies and provide supplemental information including extensive local employment information and resources for academic leadership and policy makers. About People Leadership Program Faculty Development 2012-2013 Seminar Series 2011-12 Science Seminar Series FONE One-to-One Faculty Mentoring Program Peer-Mentoring Groups Sponsored Project Support Work-Life Balance Transforming Departments Visiting Scholars Resources News Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory