Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Our Commitment. Our Response. Menu The Facts about the Sexual Assault Crisis at Baylor Our Commitment Our Response Background Baylor Title IX About Pepper Hamilton Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 Jeanne Clery Act Findings Announced May 26, 2016 Media Release, May 26, 2016 Findings of Fact Pepper Hamilton Recommendations Board Actions Sexual Assault Task Force Action Team Implementation Teams Our Progress News & Updates Our Commitment Our Response Our Progress News Clips Statements to the Media Additional Links Baylor Title IX Office Mission of Baylor University Report It Report It Our Commitment. Our Response. Our CommitmentTo cultivate a safe and supportive educational environment where students flourish in the pursuit of their life's calling.Learn MoreOur ResponseTo take courageous, comprehensive actions to cultivate a caring campus environment and ensure systems and processes that support all students, including victims of sexual violence.Learn MoreOur ProgressTo work efficiently and with urgency to complete or operationalize improvements, and further, to verify their completion and sustainability for the future.Learn More Latest News and Updates Aug 11 2021 NCAA Announces Baylor Findings Since our University was first chartered in 1845, we have strived in every possible way to stay true to our Christian mission and to live by our core convictions, including a commitment to support, encourage and expect excellence in all undertakings. Excellence is our expectation at Baylor in all aspects of our University, yet excellence must also come with virtue and integrity. Jun 9 2021 Statement in response to Harris County verdict “We sincerely regret that the student in this case did not have the Baylor experience that she expected, and our prayers remain with her now and into the future. The safety and security of our students continues to be our top priority as we fulfill our Christian mission to provide a safe and caring environment for all members of the University community. “We extend our appreciation to the members of the jury and Judge Reeder, who over the past three-plus weeks heard from many witnesses and experts before evaluating the facts in this case and ultimately determining the truth and rendering a unanimous verdict and judgment in Baylor’s favor. Dec 15 2020 Update on Baylor's NCAA process Today, Baylor University completed a two-day virtual hearing with a seven-person panel of the NCAA’s Committee on Infractions. Oct 9 2020 Baylor University Resolves Review of Clery Act Violations WACO, Texas (October 9, 2020) – The U.S. Department of Education’s Clery Act Compliance/Campus Safety Operations group has finalized its Clery Program Review at Baylor University dating back to 2017. Mar 27 2019 Statement in Response to Lawsuit - March 27, 2019 Nothing is more important at Baylor University than providing a safe and caring community for our students. The University is committed to following appropriate Title IX policies and guidelines. This includes providing robust training and education to both incoming and current students in an effort to prevent sexual assault – training that each of the students involved in this alleged incident received when they came to Baylor. The University works tirelessly not only to respond to allegations of assault, but to prevent such incidents from occurring in the first place. Feb 4 2019 Update on Recent Campus Incidents Recent news articles about reported allegations of rape at two of our residence halls have, understandably, caused some concern and confusion on campus and in the media. We pledge to you that Baylor takes all allegations of sexual assault and interpersonal violence very seriously, has correctly followed its established policies and procedures, and thoroughly assessed every threat to assure the safest environment possible for our students. Dec 14 2018 December 2018 summary of Baylor’s Title IX improvements Baylor’s continued commitment to effectively addressing issues of sexual assault and interpersonal violence, including Title IX and Clery implementation, incorporates building on the key accomplishments and initiatives outlined below. The University has undergone numerous successful reviews of the implementation of 105 recommendations for improvement made by the group who thoroughly investigated our past response – including an external verification initiated by the University to ensure full implementation and an independent review of the implementation of improvements by the Big 12 Conference, which also found the University successful in completing the changes. Additionally, Baylor’s accrediting body, SACSCOC, affirmed Baylor’s progress and accredited the University through 2027. Continued improvement in our processes, policies and support for our students is an ongoing priority of Baylor University. Dec 14 2018 President Livingstone statement on former student’s plea agreement The former student has not attended Baylor since March 2016, when he was arrested on sexual assault charges. In addition, following his arrest, the fraternity he was involved in was suspended immediately by the University and currently remains suspended. Baylor handled this case quickly and in accordance with the University’s Title IX policy. Dec 11 2018 SACSCOC Officially Reaffirms Accreditation I am pleased to share with you the good news that Baylor University has received official reaffirmation of its 10-year institutional accreditation by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), the recognized regional accrediting body in 11 southern states and Latin America for higher education institutions that award associate, baccalaureate, master's or doctoral degrees. Oct 31 2018 Mischaracterization of sexual assault numbers (Updated Oct. 31, 2018, 2:00 pm) A point in the Big 12's “Report on Verification of Implementation of 105 Recommendations by Baylor University” -- amplified this morning by the Fort Worth Star-Telegram – contains a mischaracterization of the results of the University’s publicly available campus climate survey. More News Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Our Commitment Our Response Background Baylor Title IX About Pepper Hamilton Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 Jeanne Clery Act Findings Announced May 26, 2016 Media Release, May 26, 2016 Findings of Fact Pepper Hamilton Recommendations Board Actions Sexual Assault Task Force Action Team Implementation Teams Our Progress News & Updates Our Commitment Our Response Our Progress News Clips Statements to the Media Additional Links Baylor Title IX Office Mission of Baylor University Report It Report It