Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Built Environments Construction Management 120 Architecture Hall 206-543-6377 Website Faculty Website uwcm@uw.edu Construction management is a diverse discipline focused on the coordination, planning, and delivery of projects that compose the world's built environment. The major classifications of construction differ markedly from one another: residential, commercial, industrial, and infrastructure, as well as specialties such as electrical, mechanical, framing, excavation, and roofing. Construction managements' technical and business aspects make it an interesting and gratifying field of study. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Construction Management Bachelor of Science in Construction Management degree Bachelor of Science in Construction Management degree (w/Arch Design) Program of Study: Minor: Construction Management Minor in Construction Management Graduate Programs Program of Study: Master Of Science In Construction Management Master Of Science In Construction Management Master Of Science In Construction Management (fee-based) (online) Undergraduate Programs Construction Management 120 Architecture Hall 206-543-6377 uwcm@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Construction Management Program Overview Construction management is a diverse discipline focused on the coordination, planning, and delivery of projects that compose the world's built environment. The major classifications of construction differ markedly from one another: residential, commercial, industrial, and infrastructure, as well as specialties such as electrical, mechanical, framing, excavation, and roofing. Construction managements’ technical and business aspects make it an interesting and gratifying field of study. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Bachelor of Science in Construction Management degree Bachelor of Science in Construction Management degree (w/Arch Design) Bachelor of Science in Construction Management degree Credential Overview Construction management is a diverse discipline focused on the coordination, planning, and delivery of projects that compose the world's built environment. The major classifications of construction differ markedly from one another: residential, commercial, industrial, and infrastructure, as well as specialties such as electrical, mechanical, framing, excavation, and roofing. Construction managements’ technical and business aspects make it an interesting and gratifying field of study. Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year Courses: M E 123; PHYS 114, PHYS 115, PHYS 117, and PHYS 118; 5 credits of economics; ENGL 131, ENGL 281; ESS 101; MATH 112 or MATH 124; ACCTG 215 and ACCTG 225, CM 250, COM 220, MGMT 200, QMETH 201; chemistry or environmental-science courses. Admission Requirements Admission is for autumn only, is capacity constrained, and is divided into three groups: Freshmen Direct (FA), Early Admission (EA), and Upper-Division Admission (UA). Consult department website for more information. Freshman Direct Admission (FA) The department enrolls a small number of students each year directly out of high school, prior to their completion of any university-level prerequisites. Freshman applicants to the University listing construction management as their intended major are automatically considered. Admission is offered to students with exceptionally competitive academic records, including but not limited to high school GPA and SAT or ACT scores. Freshman Direct students work with the construction management adviser to plan their first two years of coursework before beginning the standard curriculum. Such students are eligible to join the construction management student organizations, apply for scholarships, and participate in student competitions. Students admitted under the Freshman Direct Admission program must complete all prerequisite course requirements listed under Upper-Division Admission as well as all major requirements to earn their degrees. Early Admission (EA) Students may also apply to the department in spring of their freshman year to enter as part of the Early Admission (EA) group in their sophomore year. This admission path is open to students who began their studies through UW as freshmen, have been enrolled no more than three quarters, and have completed at least 27 credits through UW (25 of the 27 UW credits must be numerically graded). Courses completed prior to applying must include: MATH 112 (or MATH 124 or Q SCI 291), PHYS 114 and PHYS 117 (or PHYS 121), and ECON 200. Other courses from the list of upper-division prerequisites may be taken to complete the minimum 27 credits. Application deadline for Early Admission is April 1. Admission decisions are based on an applicant's academic performance and potential, extent and quality of relevant experience, apparent attitude, and personal motivation. Completion of prerequisite requirements does not guarantee admission and all prerequisite requirements must be completed by the April 1 deadline. Students admitted under the Early Admission program must complete all prerequisite course requirements listed under Upper-Division Admission as well as all major requirements in order to earn their degrees. Upper-Division Admission (UA) Prerequisite Courses: Minimum 88 credits in the following categories (courses must be completed by the beginning of autumn quarter for admission that quarter): Construction: CM 260 Business and Management: ACCTG 215 and ACCTG 225; MGMT 200 Individuals & Societies (I & S): 5 credits of economics; 5 additional I & S credits from UW Areas of Knowledge list (CM 250 recommended) Natural World (NW): PHYS 114 and PHYS 117 (or PHYS 121), and PHYS 115 and PHYS 118 (or PHYS 122); MATH 112 (or MATH 124 or Q SCI 291); ESS 101; QMETH 201 (or STAT 220 or STAT 311); 10 additional NW credits from UW Areas of Knowledge list (chemistry or environmental studies recommended) Language Skills: 5 credits from English composition list; 5 credits from "W" courses or English composition list (ENGL 131 and ENGL 281 recommended) Visual, Literary & Performing Arts (VLPA): COM 220; 5 additional VLPA credits (from UW Areas of Knowledge list) Diversity (DIV): 5 credits that meet UW's diversity requirement. Admission to the major is capacity constrained. Admission decisions are based on an applicant's academic performance and potential, extent and quality of relevant experience, apparent attitude, and personal motivation. Completion of prerequisite requirements does not guarantee admission. Completion of prerequisite requirements is not required to apply, but is required prior to being admitted in autumn quarter. Departmental application deadline: April 1, for the following autumn quarter. Selection for acceptance is made by early May, and all applicants are notified shortly thereafter. Because each application is valid only once, a student whose application for admission is denied must reapply if consideration is desired in any subsequent year. Completion Requirements 92 credits: Foundation Courses (78 credits): ARCH 320, ARCH 321; MGMT 300; CM 310, CM 311, CM 312, CM 313, CM 321, CM 322, CM 323, CM 330, CM 331, CM 332, CM 333, CM 334, CM 335, CM 410, CM 411, CM 412, CM 414, CM 420, CM 421, CM 422, CM 423, CM 432, and CM 434 Construction Electives (minimum 6 credits): Two of the following: CM 415, CM 416, CM 425, CM 426, CM 428, CM 429, CM 430, or CM 433 Capstone Experience (5 credits): Minimum 2.0 in CM 431 Additional Writing Requirement (3 credits): CM 301 Additional Major Requirement: Minimum 2.50 cumulative GPA in upper-division courses completed in the College of Built Environments Continuation Policy All students must make satisfactory academic progress in the major. Failure to do so results in probation, which can lead to dismissal from the major. For the complete continuation policy, contact the departmental adviser or refer to the department website. Back to Top Bachelor of Science in Construction Management degree (w/Arch Design) Credential Overview The Bachelor of Science in Construction Management is an intense business program with an in-depth focus on the construction industry. The BS provides a solid foundation for students entering the private and public sectors of the construction industry. The college also offers a Dual Degree-Bachelor of Arts with a major in Architectural Design and a BS in Construction Management. Students must first be admitted to the Architectural Design major. Additional Information For requirements of the dual-degree program in architectural design and construction management, refer to the Architecture catalog page. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Construction Management Program Overview The Construction Management minor is designed for students interested in professions related to the construction industry. The minor offers an academic foundation to be successful in careers in the construction industry. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Construction Management Minor in Construction Management Completion Requirements Minimum 27 credits Required courses (15 credits): CM 310, and CM 311 or CEE 307; CM 331; CM 333; CM 411 Electives (12 credits): four courses from the following: CM 321, CM 322, CM 332, CM 335, CM 414, CM 415, CM 421, CM 423, CM 428 Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses counted toward the minor Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The study of construction management involves an interdisciplinary curriculum that contains a mix of technical, managerial, and business courses to provide graduates the essential skills needed to be successful in the construction industry. Oral and written communication skills are strengthened through written requirements and oral presentations. Construction management skill sets include the ability to read and interpret construction contract documents; the ability to determine appropriate methods for project construction and the proper sequence for each associated construction task; the ability to estimate project costs and time requirements; the ability to evaluate project site safety hazards and take action to minimize the potential for accidents occurring; an understanding of the legal framework associated with contract construction; and the ability to manage the myriad activities associated with constructing a project. Graduates pursue careers with construction companies, design firms, public agencies, homebuilders, consulting firms, real estate developers, and construction material suppliers. Instructional and Research Facilities: The Built Environments Library (located on the third floor of Gould Hall) houses construction management books and periodicals. Additional materials are located in the Engineering Library and the Foster Library (Business School). College resources include a 30-work-station computer laboratory in the basement of Gould Hall. Honors Options Available: None Research, Internships, and Service Learning: An internship is required for completion of the degree program. Every student is encouraged to seek summer employment in the construction industry, to provide a taste of real-world experience and an opportunity to work for a construction firm. While the department seeks to identify opportunities for internship positions, the responsibility for securing a position rests with each student. Department Scholarships: A limited number of scholarships are available to eligible students. Student Organizations/Associations: Sigma Lambda Chi is a national student honor society for recognition of outstanding students majoring in construction management. Membership is offered only to those students in the top twentieth percentile of their class. Each year the student chapter conducts community service activities. Associated Students in Construction (ASIC) is an umbrella organization for several student chapters of national organizations: Associated General Contractors of America, National Association of Home Builders, Mechanical Contractors Association of America, and the National Electrical Contractors Association. Activities include professional guest lectures, field trips, attendance at professional meetings and seminars, and community service. Graduate Program Construction Management Program of Study: Master Of Science In Construction Management This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Science In Construction Management Master Of Science In Construction Management (fee-based) (online) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Science In Construction Management Completion Requirements 42 credits Core Courses (9 credits): CM 500, CM 535, CM 575 Choose thesis, project, or course-only option (0-9 credits): Thesis option: CM 700 (9 credits) Project option: CM 600 (3 credits) Course-only option: 0 credits, complete only elective courses below Construction Management Elective Courses (24-33 credits to meet required total) College of Built Environments Elective Courses: Max 9 credits non-CM coursework from within the college may apply. Required 3.3. cumulative GPA in courses applied to program requirements. Back to Top Master Of Science In Construction Management (fee-based) (online) Completion Requirements 42 credits Required courses (42 credits): CESI 588, CESI 508, CESI 595, CESI 592, CESI 596, CESI 552, CESI 594, CM 500, CM 520, CM 525, CM 580, CM 582, CM 586, CM 588 Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA