Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Menu Search TTU Human Sciences Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Request InfoVisit Apply Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Application Details » Supportive and Rigorous Programs The Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy graduate programs at TTU provide systemic clinical training to prepare students for clinical licensure and scholarly achievement. TTU is known for its supportive and rigorous programs, and has one of the largest groups of CMFT faculty in the country. Our graduates have found success in a wide variety of academic, clinical and other settings. There are two graduate programs in CMFT at TTU: a doctoral and a master's program. The CMFT doctoral program has a long and distinguished history of preparing students for contributions in academics, administration and clinical work. There is a strong emphasis on training in research methodology as well as theoretical and clinical sophistication. Many of TTU's doctoral graduates can be found in academic institutions around the country. The doctoral program has been accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Education (COAMFTE) since 1981. Click here for the doctoral program mission statement. The master's program at TTU is a clinically-focused program that includes an emphasis in the treatment of addictions within a relational context. The CMFT faculty work in partnership with the Addictive Disorders and Recovery Studies (ADRS) faculty to provide training that prepares students for licensure as an MFT, LCDC, or for future doctoral work. All clinical supervision is done by core CMFT faculty or department faculty with MFT degrees and AAMFT Approved Supervisor (or Candidate) status. The CMFT faculty also provide the clinical supervision for students during the externship period of the program. The master's program has been accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Education (COAMFTE) since May 1, 2019. CMFT Students Students entering the program have a wide range of academic backgrounds. They not only come from all over the United States, but the world. This diversity facilitates growth and fosters understanding. Texas Tech, as well as the Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy program, is committed to the principle that in no aspect shall there be differences in the treatment of persons or discrimination with regard to the recruitment, admission, codes of conduct, hiring, retention, or dismissal of students, faculty, and supervisors or other relevant educators and/or staff on the basis of race, age, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, relationship status, gender identity, socioeconomic status, disability, health status, religion and spiritual beliefs and/or affiliation, and/or national origin. Student Achievement Criteria As part of the accreditation process, the CMFT program tracks student graduation rates, national licensure exam pass rates, and licensure rates for each cohort of students and graduates of the doctoral program. The rates are available to the public at the link provided below. COAMFTE Student Achievement Criteria Data for Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Program (Doctoral) COAMFTE Student Achievement Criteria Data for Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Program (Master's) CMFT Mission Statement and Learning Outcomes TTU CMFT Doctoral Program Benchmarks Composition of Faculty and Students CMFT Program Manual Doctoral Portfolio Example Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Address Texas Tech University, P.O. Box 41250, Lubbock, TX 79409-1250 Phone 806.742.3060 Email hs.webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 21, 2022 11:23 AM Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Students Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Students Back Graduate Programs Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Students Graduate Programs Back Request Information Admissions M.S. in Couple, Marriage, & Family Therapy Ph.D. in Couple, Marriage, & Family Therapy Curriculum Research Training Resources Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Students Resources Back Accreditation Activities & Events FAQ's Scholarships & Financial Aid Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Students Scholarships & Financial Aid Back Financial Aid Graduate Scholarships Faculty & Staff Clinical Training & Services Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Clinical Training & Services Back Clinical Training Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Clinical Training & Services Clinical Training Back Family Therapy Clinic Clinic Map Clinical Services Couple, Marriage, and Family Therapy Clinical Training & Services Clinical Services Back Call Us Services News & Research Contact Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index