Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Computing Main navigation About Advisory Board Awards Community Contact Facts and Rankings Leadership Techlanta Faculty Position Opportunities College Administration Website Feedback Form Future Students Degree Programs Graduate Degrees Minors Threads Undergraduate Degrees Online Education Tuition and Financial Aid Funding Sources Current Students Academic Resources Advising Program Advising Undergraduate Advising Career Fair International Study Tutoring Assistance Career Services Entrepreneurship Mentoring Program Office of Outreach, Enrollment and Community FASET 2022 Schools Division of Computing Instruction School of Computational Science and Engineering School of Computer Science School of Cybersecurity and Privacy School of Interactive Computing News & Events News Upcoming Events Calendar Press Contacts The Compiler People Directory Faculty Staff PhD Students Alumni Research Facilities Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Research Areas Research Centers About Research Centers Constellations Center for Equity in Computing Undergrad Research Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Corporate Recruiting Support the College Open Search Search Search Image Image Image School of Cybersecurity and Privacy Cybersecurity and digital privacy have become key factors during the digital transformation of our economy and society. The School of Cybersecurity and Privacy develops a holistic approach to education for these fields, preparing students in the areas of technology, business, policy, and practice. Technical skills in specialties such as cloud security, cryptography, cyber-physical systems, forensics, and malware are paired with learning about regulatory requirements, including those in public policy and law. Students are able to choose from some of the most pressing applications of cybersecurity and privacy in society; election systems, social media, internet infrastructure and web security, cyber warfare, hardware security, network and communications system security, and machine-to-machine trust. The School of Cybersecurity and Privacy is an intercollege academic unit – having an administrative home in the College of Computing – with faculty drawn from Computing, the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, School of Public Policy, Sam Nunn School of International Affairs, Scheller College of Business, and Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI). The Master of Science and online MS in cybersecurity offer tracks in information security, public policy, and cyber-physical systems. Ph.D. students in computer science can choose a focus area in cryptography or information security as part of their studies. Undergraduates pursuing the bachelor's degree in computer engineering can choose the thread in cybersecurity, which teaches the fundamentals of secure system design and cyber defense. Undergrads in computer science combine threads to match their career interests and can take courses in cybersecurity. The CS threads that align most closely with cybersecurity include: Devices, Information Internetworks, and Systems and Architecture. Along with these offerings, the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy is committed to future courses and degrees that bolster cybersecurity and privacy undergraduate education across Georgia Tech. SCP is integrating the education programming for students and professionals at all skill levels to address a growing demand from every sector of the modern digital economy for these skills. SCP Website Visit the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy website for more information. Community The GT Computing Community Office of Outreach, Enrollment & Community Student Organizations Career Development Internships & Co-Ops Career Fairs Startups & Entrepreneurship Mentoring Program Tutoring Assistance Community Outreach Career Services Career Services for OMSCS Online Master's in Cybersecurity Georgia Tech’s Online Master of Science in Cybersecurity (OMS Cybersecurity) is the only interdisciplinary degree in cybersecurity from a U.S. News & World Report Top 10-ranked public university that you can earn online. OMS Cybersecurity Master's in Cybersecurity Cybersecurity is no longer just a computer programmer’s problem. It touches multiple disciplines, careers and nearly all aspects of society – from public policy to energy management to product design. MS Cybersecurity PhD in Computer Science The Computer Science PhD program is divided up into a series of milestones which every student progresses through on the way to the degree. A component in information security is offered. PhD CS PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering Technical interest areas include computer systems and software, digital signal processing, electrical energy, systems and controls, and more. PhD ECE Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources GT Footer menu 0 Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum GT Footer menu 1 Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research College of Computing Resources Menu College of Computing Resources Intranet GT Footer menu 2 Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Co-ops & Internships Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid News Feed Quiz Bowl Team Wins Nationals Every year, Georgia Tech’s academic quiz bowl team competes in two… Faculty Receives New GPUs for Fluid Dynamics and Machine Learning Research Scientific computing and simulation require lots of power. This means… Rising Stars: Georgia Tech Cyber Students Recognized as RSA Scholars Two Ph.D. students studying in the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy…