Skip to main content Explore Sections open search open menu Close From the latest big breakthrough to the most influential and inspiring figures on campus to Pitt in the community, Pittwire is your official source for what’s happening now. Explore By Topics Health and Wellness Technology and Science Arts and Humanities Community Impact Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Global Innovation and Research Our City/Our Campus Explore By Category Features & Articles Accolades & Honors Ones to Watch Announcements and Updates Pittwire Other Links Pitt Magazine Event Calendar Social Media Directory Close Search Pitt Search Search for People Close Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events Navigation Navigation About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work Info For Info For Alumni Community Global Sustainability Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Close Search Pittwire Search Search www.pitt.edu Ones to Watch Tre Tipton Tags Subscribe to Pittwire Get the most interesting and important stories from the University of Pittsburgh. Subscribe This wide receiver and social work graduate student﻿﻿﻿’s journey has taken him from despair to LOVE—living out victoriously every day. At 1 a.m. on a cold night late in 2015, Tre Tipton stood on Pittsburgh’s Fort Duquesne Bridge, gazing down at the black waters of the Allegheny River with his back to nearby Heinz Field. There at the stadium, as a freshman that fall, he had played as a wide receiver for the Pitt Panthers football team — until he sprained both the posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) and lateral collateral ligament (LCL) of his left knee, ending his season and shattering his already-fragile sense of self-worth. “Now the thing that I used to look forward to, that I used to keep me sane, is out of my hands and gone,” he later recalled. “I was so deep in my own depression, there was no coming out.” Having pulled back from the brink of killing himself three times recently, Tipton (who had suffered from depression since childhood) told himself it was time to end his anguish once and for all. He began shifting his feet in preparation for jumping off the bridge. The timing seemed perfect: At that late hour, no one would see or hear him. But then an inner voice spoke up: “You’re not ready yet.” With that, something clicked inside Tipton. He impulsively took off his shirt, threw it into the river and returned to his dorm in Pitt’s Sutherland Hall. From that time forward, he vowed, he was going to be a better person than he had ever been, no matter what it took. This being real life, Tipton’s mental and physical recoveries were interrupted by setbacks, including three more season-ending injuries — among them a life-threatening collapsed lung suffered in a devastating hit during the ninth game of the Panthers’ 2016 season. Close But, supported by family members, teammates and coaches, he persevered. Having graduated with a bachelor’s degree in communication, he’s poised this fall to begin graduate studies in Pitt’s School of Social Work and return for the Panthers’ 2021 season as a major asset, with 39 career games under his belt. (Because of his seasons lost to injuries and COVID-19 interruptions to the 2020 season, the NCAA has granted Tipton a seventh year of eligibility.) He’ll also continue his work with L.O.V.E. (Living Out Victoriously Everyday), the nonprofit organization he founded in 2017 to counsel student-athletes and help them deal with the pressures of mixing academics with athletics. His commitment to others was recognized by the American Football Coaches Association when he was named to the organization’s Good Works Team. And in May 2021, he was named a recipient of the Wilma Rudolph Student-Athlete Achievement Award, presented annually by the National Association of Academic and Student-Athlete Development Professionals to student-athletes who have overcome great personal, academic or emotional odds to achieve academic success while participating in intercollegiate athletics. “Tre has never allowed adversity, on or off the field, to get in the way of his high aspirations,” Pitt Football Head Coach Pat Narduzzi said. “His strength, courage and perseverance are an inspiration to our entire program. We are all incredibly proud of this recognition for Tre and know that he has even more great achievements in store for the future.” “I am extremely blessed and thankful to receive such a prestigious award in honor of the great Wilma Rudolph,” Tipton said. “My story is about how my life has changed over time. I hope that my story can help change the perspectives of people in their own lives. Adversity is a comma in the sentence of life, not a period.” Trending The University of Pittsburgh will compete for $10 billion in military health contracts Register now for Pitt’s 2022 Diversity Forum How do monarch butterflies know where to migrate? Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Quick Links & Resources Quick Links & Resources Accessibility Statement Careers Consumer Info/Achievement Contact Us Departments A-Z Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Find People Information Technology LGBTQ+ Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy My Pitt Regional Campuses Regional Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Titusville Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work 4200 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15260 United States +1 412-624-4141 Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube