Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Public and Nonprofit Administration Undergraduate Graduate People Giving IPNL Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact IPNL Resources About IPNL Education Research Outreach Take Action Master of Public Administration Master of Nonprofit Management Graduate Certificates Explore SUAPP Follow Us Online Facebook Home PADM Institute for Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership (IPNL) About The Institute for Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership (IPNL) Mission The Institute for Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership (IPNL) promotes effective philanthropy, advances nonprofit leadership practice, and strengthens the nonprofit sector through education and research. Our vision is to serve as a portal for 1) nonprofits to access the expertise and opportunities at the University of Memphis, and 2) students and faculty to access the rich context available for engaged scholarship, service learning, and applied experiences. Leadership Team Dr. Erin Nelson, Associate Director of Research and Education Dr. Erin Nelson joined the Department of Public and Nonprofit Administration in August 2013. She received her M.P.A. and Ph.D., both with emphases in nonprofit management, from the Bloch School of Management at the University of Missouri-Kansas City. Her research interest is in career decision-making, and examines how people learn about and select careers in the nonprofit sector. This research interest stems from her own experience as an "accidental nonprofiteer," and highlights the sometimes-unintentional nature of nonprofit careers. Erin also researches nonprofit career trajectories, nonprofit management education, and nonprofit leadership and talent development. Ms. Candace Walsh Candace McRae Walsh is an Instructor of Public Administration and Nonprofit Management at the University of Memphis. Additionally, she directs the nonprofit certificate program within the UofM's Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration, and serves as the coordinator of the UofM's Nonprofit Leadership Collaborative. Ms. Walsh holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Communications from the University of Tennessee at Knoxville and a Master of Public Administration degree from the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. She is a member of the Alliance of Nonprofit Educators. Additionally, she is trained in conflict resolution and has been approved as a Rule 31 General Civil Mediator by the Tennessee State Supreme Court. Dr. Elizabeth Gillespie Elizabeth M. Gillespie, Ph.D. joined the faculty as an assistant professor in the Department of Public and Nonprofit Administration in 2020 and is affiliate faculty with the Institute for Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership. She earned her doctorate in public administration from the University of Nebraska at Omaha. Her teaching areas include nonprofit management and leadership and resource development. Her research areas include women's philanthropy and nonprofit organizations, social change, philanthropic nonprofits and social justice movements, and fund developoment. Prior to her academic career, Elizabeth spent a decade working in the nonprofit field primarily in a leadership position at a human services nonprofit based in Des Moines, IA. Advisory Council Purpose The IPNL Advisory Council serves as a sounding board for the Institute and helps IPNL identify and address current and emerging trends in the Memphis and Mid-South nonprofit sector. The Advisory Council is comprised of nonprofit executives representing multiple subsectors and mission areas. Members Shauna Bateman, Vice President and District Executive, YMCA of Memphis and the Mid-South* Joanna Curtis, Chief Development Officer, University of Memphis* Kevin Dean, CEO, Momentum Nonprofit Partners Bob Fockler, President, Community Foundation of Greater Memphis Amber Hamilton, CEO, Memphis Music Initiative David Jordan, President & CEO, Agape Child & Family Services Melanie Keller, President, Meritan Kytrinia Miller, Director of Human Resources, SRVS Susan Mills, CEO, Goodwill Homes Samonne Montgomery, Senior Advisor of Enterprise Learning, ALSAC Eric Robertson, President, CommunityLift Kenneth Robinson, President & CEO, United Way of the Mid-South Tracy Lauritzen-Wright, COO, ArtsMemphis Jan Young, Executive Director, Assisi Foundation Dorcas Young Griffin, Director of Shelby County Community Services, Shelby County* * Indicates program alumni Affiliate Faculty Purpose IPNL's affiliate faculty serve as subject matter experts for educational initiatives and research projects. With academic expertise in a broad range of disciplines, this group of faculty expands the capacity and expertise of the Institute. Members Dr. Katherine Lambert-Pennington, Associate Professor and Director, University of Memphis School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Dr. Greg Washington, Professor and Director, University of Memphis Center for Advancement and Youth Development Dr. Sharon Wrobel, Associate Professor and Chair, University of Memphis Department of Public and Nonprofit Administration Practitioner Fellows Purpose IPNL's practitioner fellows serve as subject matter experts for Institute programs and services. As accomplished nonprofit professionals, this group of practitioners provides real-world expertise across the various facets of nonprofit leadership and management. Members Peter Abell, MPA, President and CEO, Memphis Symphony Michael Hoffmeyer, MPA, Director, University of Memphis Crews Center for Entrepreneurship Dana Moore, MPA, Community Programs Manager, Methodist LeBonheur Healthcare Laura Vaughn, MPA, Director of Development, American Red Cross Tennessee Region Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/1/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.