Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022 Menu Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues Baylor>Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022>Alumni News & Notes>Class Notes>1990s 1990s Todd Copeland, BA ’90, was awarded the annual Barry Spacks Poetry Prize for his book Like All Light [Gunpowder Press, 2022]. Copeland’s book was chosen for the award by Lynne Thompson, poet laureate for the City of Los Angeles. For more information about Copeland’s work, visit toddcopelandwriter.com. Lee Mulcahy, BA ’90, PhD, exhibited paintings and sculptures focused on eviction in America at the University of Texas at Arlington University Center during June and July 2021. In October 2021, his work on Africa Water Wells, a clean water well ministry in Kenya started by his late father Edward Lee “Bud” Mulcahy, was exhibited at Gallery West, celebrating the ministry’s plans for its 10th water well in 2022 at an outlying clinic of Tenwek Hospital in Bomet, Kenya. Mulcahy exhibited at Art Basel Miami in December 2021 and Bogotá, Colombia, in January. Renae Cartwright, BS ’91, MSEd ’92, celebrated her son Randall Cartwright and his cousin Ryan Donham, representing Baylor at Magic Kingdom Park at the Walt Disney World Resort in Bay Lake, FL, during the holidays. Randall is a junior accounting major, and Ryan is a sophomore health and science studies major. Mary Landon Darden, MSEd ’91, EdD ’06, authored Entrepreneuring the Future of Higher Education: Radical Transformation in Times of Profound Change [Rowman & Littlefield, 2021], winner of the American Book Fest’s Best Education/Academic Book of 2021. The book also ranked 36th out of 58 on BookAuthority’s “Best University Books of All Time” list. Her husband Robert F. Darden, BS ’76, is mighty proud of her. Rusty Freeman, BA ’91, and Lane Freeman of Marble Falls, TX, established the Freeman Family Endowed Scholarship in Truett Seminary, which supports Truett Seminary students participating in the Wesley House of Study program. Their daughter Bailey is a member of Baylor’s Class of 2024. Stephen H. Lee, BBA ’91, and Karen Lee of Houston established the Howard and Patty Lee Endowed Athletic Scholarship, which supports Baylor student-athletes. Michael C. Smith, JD ’92, earned a Master of Arts in World War II Studies from Arizona State University. The online degree program is offered in connection with the National WWII Museum in New Orleans. Smith has authored two World War II books and is a partner with Dallas-based law firm Scheef & Stone LLP. He manages the firm’s Marshall office and assists clients in complex commercial litigation in Texas federal courts. Brian J. Medricka, BA ’95, was named national director of communications, public and media relations at Stream Realty Partners. Christopher B. Trowbridge, BBA ’95, JD ’98, managing partner at Dallas-based law firm Bell Nunnally & Martin LLP, is featured in the 2022 edition of D Magazine’s The Dallas 500. He is listed in the law: business and IP litigation category and is one of 18 in the law: managing partners category. The Dallas 500, which recognizes North Texas business leaders across more than 50 industries, is produced by the editors of D CEO and features “the most powerful business leaders in Dallas-Fort Worth.” Selections are made based on extensive contacts in local business circles, hundreds of interviews and months of research. Thomas E. Oney, BA ’96, of Austin established the Tom and Jessica Oney Endowed Scholarship Fund, a Hord Challenge Scholarship, which supports students enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences. Katie Qingqing Pan, BBA ’96 and MTax ’96, of Arcadia, CA, established the Katie Qingqing Pan Endowed Fund in honor of former Baylor Track and Field head coach Clyde Hart. The scholarship supports the Baylor Track and Field program. Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues