Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Native American and Indigenous Studies Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative Funding Requests Overview: Funds overseen by the Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative are designated to provide support for on-campus and off-campus projects that explore and increase understanding of, the cultural traditions and political experiences of Indigenous Peoples throughout the hemisphere and the world through historical and contemporary lenses. Funds may be used to support speakers, lecture series, films, events and symposia, as well as fund a clearly delineated working group for meetings, materials (books, etc.), visitors, and presentations. Please read through all four application descriptions to ensure that you are applying in the right category. Internal Funding Requests (within Brown University): Co-Sponsorships for Events and Workshops Within this form, you will be asked to submit two-paragraph description of your proposed event or project and indicate the importance of its relationship to the field of Native American and Indigenous Studies (NAIS) and how it aligns with the goals of the NAIS Initiative. Additionally, you will be asked to use our NAISI Budget Template to create and submit a detailed budget and list of other co-sponsors for your event. This form is for entities affiliated with Brown University applying for funding. The typical co-sponorship contribution is $500 to $1000. Funds may be used to support academic events such as guest speakers, lecture series, films, events and symposia, as well as a clearly delineated working group for meetings, materials (books, etc.), visitors, and presentations. Proposals will be evaluated by the NAISI Core Steering Committee. Other relevant faculty may be consulted at the discretion of the Committee. Accepted proposals will be based on proposal quality, viability and potential contribution to the goals of the NAIS Initiative. Student Research Grants The purpose of the NAISI Student Research Grants are to support Brown University undergraduate or graduate students conducting academic research projects or participating in experiential learning opportunities related to Native American and Indigenous Studies not supported by other funding opportunities with NAISI. The typical research grant is $500 to $1000. Within this form, you will be asked to describe your research project, its relationship to NAISI's mission, and how it supports your own academic development. Grantees will be asked to provide a brief summary of their activities within one month of the end of their project, or the portion of it funded by the NAISI research grant. Course Development/Expansion and Curricular Resources Brown University faculty members can apply for funds to support the development or expansion of a course contributing to the developing NAIS concentration or to support curricular resources. Do you have ideas for a course that engages Native/Indigenous peoples, topics or epistemologies? Do you have research that could be folded into a course or need support for a research assistant that could help develop a new course or expand an existing one? Or do you have a wish list of curricular resources to support a course (or courses) or NAIS at Brown, in general (e.g., general collections, special materials, relevant databases, language packages, textbook support)? APPLY TODAY FOR MELLON GRANT FUNDS TO SUPPORT THESE! Other Brown University Funding Click here to see a list of research, internship, and course development funding opportunities from programs across the university (available to Brown-affiliated students and faculty). Main menu Home Booking Spaces People NAISI Graduate Fellowship Course Offerings Undergraduate Events Resources NAISI E-Bulletin Archive Funding Requests Research Projects and Community Engagement Stay Informed Annual Reports Brown University Land Acknowledgment Mellon Grant Native American and Indigenous Studies Native American and Indigenous Studies Brown University 67 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5972 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Resource Links A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat