Skip to main content CCEB|DBEI | Intranet About Vision and Mission What We Do Our Vision of Justice History Leadership Announcements Events Contact Us/Visit Our Research Featured Research Centers of Excellence Our Research on Health Disparities Education All Educational Programs Our Educational Approach Master of Science in Clinical Epidemiology (MSCE) Admissions Tuition and Funding Curriculum Course Descriptions Sample Course Plan Key Dates Course Schedule Program Contacts Certificate Program Course Descriptions Offerings for Medical Students Summer Research Fellowship Paul D. Stolley Travel Award in International Clinical Epidemiology Specialized Training (T32) Programs Faculty Research Services Centers of Excellence DBEI Center for Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics Improving Population Health Through Research and Training Hide Overlay Master of Science in Clinical Epidemiology (MSCE) Hide Overlay Untreated ‘White Coat’ Hypertension Represents Real Cardiovascular Risk Hide Overlay Rising Temperatures May Have Special Meaning for People on Some Common Drugs Hide Overlay COVID-19 Mortality: Does the Renin-Angiotensin System Play a Role? Hide Overlay New Model Shows Importance of Local Features in COVID-19 Spread Hide Overlay Past, Present and Future of the Pandemic: Social Distancing Is Key Hide Overlay Combatting the Double Jeopardy of Drug-Resistant TB plus HIV Research Delving into what makes health better for patients and populations Education Educating future leaders in clinical research Faculty Forging paths: Our scholars' professional-life stories Services Providing top biostatistical analysis and clinical-research computing -- Announcements Alexis Ogdie-Beatty Appointed CCEB Director We are pleased to announce the appointment of Alexis R. Ogdie-Beatty, MD, MSCE, as the new director of the CCEB. Dr. Ogdie-Beatty will begin her tenure on June 1. Read more. Vincent Lo Re New ISPE President Elect Congratulations to Vincent Lo Re III, MD, MSCE, the new President Elect of the International Society for Pharmacoepidemiology. Read about the ISPE Executive Committee. New NAS Committee Looks at Sunscreens, Aquatic Organisms and Public Health Karen Glanz, PhD, MPH, has been named to the new National Academy of Sciences Committee on Environmental Impact of Currently Marketed Sunscreens and Potential Human Impacts of Changes in Sunscreen Usage. Sunscreens may be toxic to some marine and freshwater aquatic organisms. The group will review the science on currently marketed sunscreen ingredients, their effects in aquatic environments, and the potential public health implications. Read more. View More Announcements Annual Events 14th Annual University of Pennsylvania Conference on Statistical Issues in Clinical Trials / Subgroup Analysis in Clinical Trials: Opportunities and Challenges View More Events Seminars Symposium on Advances in Genomics, Epidemiology and Statistics (SAGES) (copy) Fri, Jun 17 2022, 1 - 10pm CCEB Seminar-Inmaculada (Inma) Hernandez, PharmD, PhD Thu, Jun 23 2022, 1 - 2pm View More Seminars About the CCEB How can we answer and anticipate the pressing health issues we face together as a society? At the CCEB we rise to that challenge through research and training in epidemiology and in biostatistics. We solve problems facing patients and populations. READ MORE ABOUT CCEB CONTACT Search Search Follow Us Twitter Vimeo © 2022 Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania. All rights reserved. | Disclaimer User menu Log in