Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Programs Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences English Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses English The study of literature offers students a comprehensive point of view from which they can integrate the diversity of human experiences. Language reveals fascinating truths about the human mind and literature records its preoccupations—intellectual, aesthetic, spiritual, psychological, political, social, historical, and ethical. The study of literature offers deep schooling in human experience. It is also superb training for any field in which understanding of behavior is valued. Students of literature consistently explore language and the forms of expression, valuable in any future work where precise and effective communication is important. English majors and minors can develop these skills to a considerable degree, and non-majors find that taking even a few well-chosen electives beyond the Core requirement can widen their knowledge of literature and sharpen their linguistic abilities. The English major at Boston College is designed to introduce students to a wide range of expression in the literary traditions of the past and present. It aims to help undergraduate students develop a strengthened ability to work critically and sensitively with texts in poetry and prose, to write with clarity and grace, and to articulate judgments about literature with an awareness of various critical approaches. English majors will become familiar with some of the major developments in the history of literature in the English language and will have the opportunity to choose from an array of courses covering topics from the medieval period to contemporary cultural studies to a range of transnational literatures. By the successful completion of the English major at Boston College, students will be able to demonstrate: an ability to write clear, coherent, organized, and stylistically correct papers; an ability to close-read, interpret, and analyze texts (including poetic texts); a knowledge of literary genres and appropriate use of critical terminology; a recognition of the historical specificity of literary works and/or other cultural products; an awareness that there are a variety of critical approaches to literary and cultural texts. English Courses English Faculty English Website Information for First-Year Majors and Non-majors Major Requirements English Minor English Courses for Non-majors Interdisciplinary and Other Programs Creative Writing Concentration Summer Courses Information for Study Abroad Honors Program B.A./M.A. Program Information for First-Year Majors and Non-majors The English Department has primary responsibility for two Core requirements—ENGL1010 First-Year Writing Seminar, taught entirely by English Department faculty, and ENGL1080 Literature Core, taught largely by English Department faculty. Because Core classes are restricted to first-year students, students should plan to take both courses during the first year. ENGL1010 First-Year Writing Seminar The First-Year Writing Seminar helps students use their writing as a source of learning and a form of communication. Designed as a workshop in which each student develops a portfolio of personal and academic writing, the seminar follows a semester-long process. Students write and rewrite essays continuously, discuss their works-in-progress in class, and receive feedback during individual and small group conferences with the instructor. In connection with their writing, students read and discuss a wide range of texts, including various forms of non-fiction prose. In addition to regular conferences, the class meets two hours per week to learn and discuss writing processes and strategies, various genres and rhetorical situations for writing, the evolving drafts of class members, and various forms of conducting and writing research, including an introduction to using the resources at O'Neill Library. ENGL1080 Literature Core In this part of the Core program, students explore the principal motives which prompt people to read literature—to assemble and assess the shape and values of one's own culture, to discover alternative ways of looking at the world, to gain insight into issues of permanent human importance as well as issues of contemporary urgency, and to enjoy the linguistic and formal satisfactions of literary art. Literature Core will strive to develop the student's capacity to read and write with clarity and engagement, to allow for that dialogue between the past and present we call history, and to provide an introduction to literary genres. Courses for English Language Learners The department offers Core level courses in language and literature for English language learners. These classes require department permission for registration. Interested students should contact the ELL Director, Lynne Anderson, for more information: lynne.anderson@bc.edu. Major Requirements Students ordinarily begin the English major in their sophomore year, after completing the First-Year Writing Seminar and the Literature Core. In addition to the two 3-credit Core courses, students take 30 credits (in the form of ten 3-credit courses) from the Department’s offerings. These must include ENGL2131 Studies in Poetry (3 credits) and ENGL2133 Studies in Narrative (3 credits), usually taken in sequence in the sophomore year. Both courses train students intensively in the close reading of literary texts and in writing with critical awareness about literature. To provide deeper understanding of the foundations of literary traditions, English majors in the Class of 2023 are required to take 9 credits in earlier literatures in English, to be distributed in the following manner: 3 credits in medieval or early-modern literature (before 1700) 3 credits in eighteenth or nineteenth-century literature (between 1700–1900) 3 additional credits in either category (e.g., pre–1900) For students in the Classes of 2024 and later, a new requirement, Race, Blackness, and Language, will replace the third historical requirement, one course in medieval/early modern or eighteenth/nineteenth-century literature. This requirement is designed to encourage students to think about how the meaningfulness of literature emerges from the many forces shaping the world as we understand it, focusing on anti-black racism and racial difference. Students will examine issues of race thinking and global relations of power through lenses of ethics, social justice, respect for human dignity, and sustainability. Students complete the English major by taking 15 credits in elective courses of their choice. During the sophomore year, historical survey courses such as Introduction to British Literature and Culture I and II and the American Literary History sequence may be useful to fill in students' knowledge of the development of English and American literature. Students who have a special interest in American literature are advised to take American Literary History I as a foundation for later courses. Please note that earlier literatures in languages other than English (such as cross-listed courses offered through other departments) will be counted as major electives and not historical distribution requirements. At this point, students should be in a position to begin making their own choices about how they will complete the major requirements, in discussion with their major advisor. They will have many options from among the 30 or more electives the Department offers each semester in English and American literature, in Irish Studies, in writing, in the different genres, and in particular themes. Seminars Seminars are designed for English majors who want to pursue a topic or field in more depth than is possible in larger electives. Beginning with the class of 2022, all majors will be required to take one seminar prior to graduation. The seminar, with its small class size and intensive focus, is designed to foster an intimate learning community where students are encouraged not only to study an issue intensively but also to engage actively in an intellectual exchange with a faculty member and a select group of committed peers. These courses are intended mainly for juniors and seniors, and ordinarily, students are advised to have completed both Studies in Poetry and Studies in Narrative and at least one additional elective before taking a seminar. Students should expect to produce a longer seminar project or research paper (15–20 pages) as well as one or more shorter papers and make at least one oral presentation. Individually Designed Major For some students with specific interdisciplinary interests, in American Studies for instance, an individually designed sequence of courses under the English major is appropriate. Students who satisfy their major requirements this way may count for English credit up to two courses (6 credits) taken in other departments. This plan must be approved by the chairperson and the student's department advisor by the end of the first semester of junior year. English Minor The English minor is comprised of six courses (18 credits) beyond the Core requirements in English. These must include: Either ENGL2131 Studies in Poetry or ENGL2133 Studies in Narrative A historical foundations course (pre–1700 or pre–1900) Four electives from the department offerings. Core and Woods College classes may not be counted toward the minor, though additional courses that fulfill the first two requirements may be counted as electives. Students may count up to two courses from study abroad toward the minor, though they must be approved by the department. For questions about the English minor, or to declare, please contact Marla DeRosa (marla.derosa@bc.edu). English Courses for Non-majors Students majoring in other subjects have always been welcome in English courses for the diversity of viewpoint and variety of knowledge they often bring with them. From the students' point of view, English courses offer the enjoyment of reading good literature; insight into history, culture, and human character; and a chance to polish reading and writing skills. Interdisciplinary and Related Programs The English Department is connected to a variety of interdisciplinary programs at Boston College. American Studies Program American Studies is an interdisciplinary program that brings together faculty from several departments to expose students to a wide range of approaches to American culture past and present. Thematic emphases include the American city; the historical interaction of class, gender, race, and ethnicity; high culture, popular culture, and mass media; crime and deviance; migration, borderlands, and empire. Minor Requirements Courses used for fulfilling the minor must come from outside the student's major and from at least two different departments. Eighteen credits are required for the minor. Nine of these credits must be clustered in a common area of concentration chosen by the student in consultation with the director of American Studies. In the fall of the senior year each student must take the elective designated as the American Studies senior seminar for that year. Also, ENGL2277 Introduction to American Studies, is strongly recommended for minors, but not yet required. For further information on the American Studies minor and application forms, visit the American Studies website at bc.edu/amstudies. Irish Studies Irish Studies, an integral part of Boston College's distinguished Irish Programs, offers an interdisciplinary approach to the culture and society of Ireland. Individual courses cover the areas of social, political, and economic history, literature, medieval art, sociology, folk music, and the Irish language. In addition, there are several courses that are jointly taught by faculty from various disciplines. These include a 3-semester sequence of courses integrating the history and literature of Ireland, from the eighteenth to the twentieth centuries. The minor in Irish Studies requires students to complete 6 courses drawn from more than one discipline and designated as appropriate by the Irish Studies program. (These courses may not be “double counted” towards both a major and minor.) Students should contact Irish Studies at 617-552-3938 to arrange a meeting with the Director for assistance planning their courses. Those completing the Irish Studies minor are eligible for the Maeve O’Reilly Finley Fellowship for graduate study in Ireland. A listing of Irish Studies-approved courses is posted on our website and is also available at Connolly House. Students pursuing the minor are encouraged to take advantage of the partnership programs that the Irish Studies program and the Office of International Programs have developed with the National Universities of Ireland at Galway and Maynooth, University College Cork, University College Dublin, Trinity College Dublin, the University of Ulster, and Queen’s University Belfast. Women's and Gender Studies Please contact Professor Sharlene Hesse-Biber in the Sociology Department for information regarding Women's Studies. Secondary Education Majors and Minor English majors who are also completing Lynch School of Education and Human Development majors must fulfill more specific major requirements to demonstrate a broad range of knowledge within the discipline. In addition to the First-Year Writing Seminar, the Literature Core, Studies in Poetry, and Studies in Narrative, these students must fulfill the following requirements: one pre–1700 course one pre–1900 course one course on Anglophone or Ethnic American Authors one course on Women Authors one course on the History of Language/Grammar/Linguistics one course in Adolescent and Young Adult Literature two English electives To acquire sufficient knowledge across this spectrum, Lynch students should consider taking more general survey courses (e.g., Introduction to British Literature and Culture I and II, American Literary History I, II, and III) to fulfill some requirements. Students with questions about the ENGL/Lynch requirements should contact Marla Derosa in Stokes S493. Minor in Secondary Education Students in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences majoring in English may apply to minor in Education, in order to gain certification for teaching. The program begins in the junior year. Interested students should contact the Coordinator of Secondary Education or the Associate Dean in the Lynch School of Education during the first semester in sophomore year. The Department recommends that English majors completing a secondary education minor follow the guidelines listed above for course selection as well. Linguistics The Program in Linguistics, housed in the Department of Slavic and Eastern Languages, offers courses for English majors who want to study English from a linguistic perspective or to examine the nature of language. Creative Writing Concentration The English Department offers a Creative Writing Concentration that allows certain students to intensify and focus their English majors by taking a series of practice-based writing courses along with their literature courses. The creative writing concentrator undertakes a 36-credit English major instead of the usual 30 credits. At least 9 of these credits must be writing workshops in any genre, selected with the help of the student's concentration advisor. All concentrators also attend monthly social gatherings to read new work and share news about literary activity on campus. English majors may declare the Creative Writing Concentration up through first semester of junior year, after receiving a grade of A- or better in one of the Department's creative writing workshops. The period for declaring the Concentration runs through the end of add/drop week of each semester. Eligible English majors wishing to declare should see Marla DeRosa in Stokes S493. Summer Courses A limited number of summer courses maybe be counted toward the English major or minor. These include summer English courses taught abroad by our faculty through the Office of International Programs, as well as electives taught through the Woods Colleges by our faculty. Please contact Marla DeRosa (marla.derosa@bc.edu) for questions about summer courses. Courses offered through the Woods College during the academic year may not be counted toward the English Core, major, or minor. Information for Study Abroad English majors should complete (at minimum) the required Studies in Poetry and Studies in Narrative prior to study abroad, while minors should complete at least one of those requirements. Majors will need to have their preliminary application for study abroad approved by the department. Majors may count up to six credits per semester abroad for the major (12 credits maximum); minors may count six credits total. These courses may fulfill historical requirements or major electives. All courses taken abroad must be approved by the department in order to be counted toward the major or minor. A course syllabus is required for major/minor approval. This syllabus must include the writing requirements for the course, and courses cannot be approved without this information. Please note that the number of credits awarded per course is determined by the Office of International Programs. Students may study abroad for either or both semesters but must contact Marla DeRosa, Assistant to the Chairperson, Stokes S493, when planning their study abroad. Honors Program The English Department offers an honors program for English majors. Students admitted to the program will write an honors thesis senior year, either a critical study or a creative project, for 6 credits total toward the major. Students contemplating an honors thesis are encouraged to take a seminar during their junior year. A description of this program is available on the department website. B.A./M.A. Program The English Department at Boston College offers a B.A./M.A. Program that allows selected students to earn both a B.A. and an M.A. in English in five years. Enrolled students will start earning graduate credit as a senior, then complete the M.A. in a fifth year of full-time study. Requirements Admission to the program requires a GPA of 3.3 overall and 3.6 in the English major. Students may count four courses taken in the senior year toward their M.A. degree. These courses may be graduate courses, or undergraduate courses designated as “seminars.” At least two of the four must be at the graduate level, including hybrid graduate/undergraduate seminars; up to two of the four may be undergraduate courses designated as “seminars.” The two graduate courses must be taken as overloads, and these count toward the M.A. degree only. The other two courses will count toward both degrees. One of the graduate courses taken in the senior year must be Introduction to Advanced Research or Issues and Methods in American Studies. One of the courses counting for both degrees may be an undergraduate course designated as a “seminar” which was taken before the senior year for a grade of A or A-. The purpose of the program is to allow students a greater opportunity for concentrated study and research training. Students in the B.A./M.A. program must meet all the specific course requirements for the undergraduate major as well as the formal requirements for the M.A., including the completion of Introduction to Advanced Research or its equivalent, demonstrated proficiency in a foreign language, a theory course, and a comprehensive exam. Students interested in the program should consult the Director of the M.A. Program, to discuss whether this version of the M.A. is right for their individual goals. The Director will review the student's academic record and, if appropriate, facilitate the application process. The application fee and GRE requirement will be waived. Once accepted into the B.A./M.A. program, students will have the Director of the M.A. Program as their advisor. Students in the program will not be eligible for TF/TA positions or graduate financial aid. Students in the program will not be charged graduate tuition for the two overload graduate courses taken in the senior year. How to Apply: Students must submit applications by March 31 of the junior year. The required application materials are a personal statement, a writing sample, three letters of recommendation, and an official transcript. Please take a look at the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Admissions page for application instructions and e-mail gsasinfo@bc.edu with any questions on how to upload materials. Do not send any materials to the English Department. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College