Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel Tuck Leadership Tuck develops wise, decisive leaders who better the world through business. Matthew J. Slaughter, The Paul Danos Dean of the Tuck School The Earl C. Daum 1924 Professor of International Business More Academic Deans Joseph J. Gerakos D’90 Joseph J. Gerakos D’90 Senior Associate Dean for Innovation and Growth; Professor of Business Administration Joseph Gerakos teaches an elective on managerial accounting. His research focuses on markets for financial services and he is currently conducting research on competition in the audit market and the performance of the asset management industry. He serves as an editor for The Accounting Review. Contact × Joseph M. Hall Joseph M. Hall Senior Associate Dean for Teaching and Learning; David T. McLaughlin D’54, T’55 Clinical Professor Contact × Punam Anand Keller Punam Anand Keller Senior Associate Dean for Advancement and Tuck-Dartmouth Programs; Charles Henry Jones Third Century Professor of Management; Faculty Director, Center for Business, Government, & Society As Senior Associate Dean, Punam Anand Keller oversees faculty and leads innovation and growth initiatives for Tuck’s educational offerings in the pre- and post-MBA space. Keller’s academic resume includes degrees from Bombay University and Northwestern, award-winning research, and faculty positions at NYU, Columbia, and UNC. She serves as associate editor of Journal of Consumer Psychology and is on the editorial boards of Journal of Marketing Research, Journal of Public Policy and Marketing, and Social Marketing Quarterly. Keller was formerly the President of the Association for Consumer Research. Through the years, Keller has served as a consumer research consultant and educator to a variety of financial educators including FINRA foundation, CFPB, CFA, OECD, Filene Institute, NASAA, DCIIA, Dimensional, Goldman Sachs and NARPP. She has developed social marketing plans to promote financial education for the OFEFA, U.S. Department of Treasury, and NEFE. She served as the Social Marketing Officer of the Financial Literacy Center under Director AnnaMaria Lusardi, funded by the SSA. Contact × Brian T. Tomlin Brian T. Tomlin Senior Associate Dean for Faculty and Research; William and Josephine Buchanan Professor of Management Brian Tomlin teaches the core operations management class and an operations strategy elective. His research explores operations strategy and supply chain management, with a focus in the areas of supply chain design and process innovation. Brian is a past president of the Manufacturing and Service Operations Management society. He serves as a Department Editor for the Manufacturing and Service Operations Management journal. Prior to becoming an academic Brian worked full time for a number of companies, including General Electric and the Boston Consulting Group. Contact × Senior Leadership Team Philip E. Barta Philip E. Barta Executive Director, Tuck Executive Education Contact × Geoffrey V. Bronner D’91 Geoffrey V. Bronner D’91 Executive Director, Information Technology As Executive Director of Information Technology Geoff partners with his colleagues and the senior leadership to set and implement the school’s technology strategy. He oversees all information technology-related projects and activities including support services, infrastructure, online services, and related purchasing. During over 25 years of service Geoff has held several key roles within IT and was the driving force behind many of the technology services essential to daily life at Tuck. Most recently he served as senior associate director of information technology, tasked with a broader role in planning and strategy. Geoff bleeds green and often volunteers time for his beloved Dartmouth. He is unintentionally acquiring experience serving on a wide variety of nonprofit boards – 501(c)(2), 501(c)(3), 501(c)(7), and 501(c)(10) so far. When it is time to relax he makes things out of large piles of LEGO building blocks, travels, or reads military history. He lives in West Lebanon with his wife, Kristy, who works at The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice. Contact × Dia Draper Dia Draper Assistant Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion As Assistant Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, Dia works with teams across Tuck to develop recommendations in support of the school’s desire to improve in areas of strategic importance—including race, gender, sexual orientation and gender identity, nationality, and socioeconomic status. Dia is also key in the decision-making, evaluation, and refinement of Tuck programs, policies, resources, and communications—all helping to ensure the inclusion of underrepresented perspectives across the school’s offerings and settings. Draper began her career at Dartmouth in 2006 in the Tuck Admissions office, later moving to the MBA Program Office and rising to become the Director of Strategic Initiatives. Draper has also served the College’s Office of Pluralism and Leadership, Student Affairs Division, where she advanced to the appointment of Senior Associate Dean and Director. Prior to joining Tuck, Dia was an Associate Director of Admissions at the University of Virginia’s Darden Graduate School of Business, and began her career as a consultant with PwC and later as a manager at Deloitte. She is a graduate of the University of Virginia’s McIntire School of Commerce, where she earned her BS and MS in Accounting. She enjoys travel, cooking, and apocalypse genre films and books (there’s something fascinating about zombies!). She lives in Vermont with her family and two dogs. Contact × Patricia D. Harrison Patricia D. Harrison Co-Executive Director, Admissions and Financial Aid Pat Harrison has been with Tuck since 2004. She oversees Evaluation and Yield for the Admissions team and leads women's recruiting initiatives. She also serves as Tuck’s liaison to Forté. Prior to Tuck, Pat was an attorney with Womble, Carlyle, Sandridge & Rice in Charlotte, NC, practicing employment law and business litigation. She received her JD from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and her AB in Art History from Bowdoin College. Pat lives in Hanover with her husband, daughter, and a rescue dog named Moose. She enjoys reading and hiking. Contact × Sally O. Jaeger Sally O. Jaeger Associate Dean, MBA Program Sally Jaeger has 30 years of experience in higher education, primarily in the field of admissions at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. She is currently associate dean of the MBA program at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth, where she and her team oversee all activities relating to student life, academic records and counseling, international exchanges, and activities and clubs. As the former director of admissions at Tuck, Sally helped manage the evaluation process of more than 22,000 applications for the MBA program over a period of nine years. During her tenure as director, Tuck saw its international student population grow from 15% to 30+% and enjoy a strong presence from such parts of the world as Asia and Latin America. Prior to Tuck, Sally worked in admissions at the University of Pennsylvania and Dartmouth College. Sally sat on the boards of the Forte Foundation, the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management and the Mascoma Valley Health Initiative and was a member of the planning board in her hometown. Sally lives in Orange, New Hampshire with her husband, Dick, the former admissions and athletic director at Dartmouth College and her two yellow labs, Sam and Maizie. Contact × Steven D. Lubrano T’87 Steven D. Lubrano T’87 Director, Campus Development Steve is director of campus development at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth, where, since 2002, he has helped orchestrate operations across Tuck. He started his career at Tuck after an impromptu visit to the school to visit with Dean Fox who offered him a position as the associate director of corporate relations and director of the Tuck Associates Program. That started what has been a happy and fulfilling career with stops along the way as codirector of the MBA Program Office with Sally Jaeger and director of the Career Services Office. Steve graduated from Tuck in 1987 and joined the Trammell Crow Company (TCC) in Philadelphia. He left TCC to launch a network of Mailboxes etc. franchises in southeastern, MA with the hopes that UPS would soon buy the parent company. That happened, but long after Steve had sold his franchises after learning that he was not a dyed-in-the-wool entrepreneur like his dad, Dave Lubrano T'56. He received a BA from St. Lawrence University in 1981, is the a member of the New Hampshire Judicial Council, former chair of the Howe Library Corporation, a Tuck class agent, and verbose class notes reporter. Steve and his wife Allegra live in the hills of Hanover, but they spend considerable time travelling to watch their three daughters run around on collegiate and high school soccer and lacrosse fields. Contact × Amy L. Mitson Amy L. Mitson Co-Executive Director, Admissions and Financial Aid At Tuck since 2000, Amy currently leads the Admissions team with a focus on recruitment and marketing initiatives. In addition to connecting with applicants and alumni around the globe, Amy manages diversity partnerships with Management Leadership for Tomorrow, Reaching Out MBA, and serves on the board of the Consortium for Graduate Schools of Management. As the primary representative to the Graduate Management Admissions Council (GMAC), Amy has also served on GMAC's annual conference planning committee. From the Hopkins Center for the Arts, to lectures at Dartmouth and Tuck, to road cycling, winter sports, and the wider outdoors, Amy has enjoyed Dartmouth and the Upper Valley for the last twenty years and treasures her team and colleagues at Tuck. Contact × Paul Mutone Paul Mutone Chief Financial & Administrative Officer, Tuck Finance Contact × Stephen Pidgeon T’07 Stephen Pidgeon T’07 Executive Director, Career Services; Lecturer Contact × Lisa F. Tedeschi Lisa F. Tedeschi Executive Director, Undergraduate Programs & Select Initiatives Lisa leads and directs Tuck’s undergraduate business education programs, as well as select initiatives, particularly those being developed in coordination with Dartmouth partners. Lisa also oversees an outstanding undergraduate programs team that is integral to Tuck’s distinct learning community. Before joining Tuck in 2017, she served for twelve years as Chief of Staff at Colby-Sawyer College. She has a decade of training, sales, and public relations experience with the leading developer of hospitality software in the country and largest global non-profit ski industry trade association. Lisa holds a B.S. in Hospitality Management from the University of New Hampshire’s Whittemore School of Business and Economics and an MBA in Leadership from Franklin Pierce University. Contact × Lindsey M. Walter Lindsey M. Walter Executive Director, Marketing and Communications Contact × Elizabeth J. Winslow Elizabeth J. Winslow Executive Director for Co-Curricular Learning; Adjunct Professor of Business Administration Contact × Board of Advisors Asia Pacific Council Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council Latin America and Caribbean Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy