Health and Human Performance - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Health and Human Performance About HHP About HHP Strategic Plan Resources HHP Student Organizations People Faculty Staff Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Ph.D. in Kinesiology Online Master of Science in Nutrition M.A. in Sport and Fitness Administration Master of Athletic Training Certificate in Sport and Fitness Operations Management Graduate Opportunities & Teaching Fellowships Graduate Counselor Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Exercise Science Sport Administration Fitness & Sports Nutrition Scholarships UH Dietetic Internship Academic Advising Research at HHP Research at HHP Faculty Volunteers for Research News and Events News and Events Newsletter Archives News Archives Giving UH Home College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Department of Health and Human Performance Department of Health and Human Performance The University of Houston 3875 Holman St. Rm 104 Garrison Houston, TX 77204-6015 Phone: 713.743.9840 Fax: 713.743.9860 Facebook Twitter YouTube HHP Quick Links Undergraduate Advising Center Graduate Counselor UH Dietetic Internship Program ------------ Blackboard Course Listing Academic Calendar AccessUH UH office of Admissions CLASS tech support UH IT support Health and Human Performance Students and Faculty from the Master of Athletic Training Program at Commencement 2022 Dr. David Walsh Inducted Into 2022 COSMA Hall of Fame as Master Professor Commission on Sport Management Accreditation 2022 Conference at UH UH Adaptive Athletics students, led by Dr. Michael Cottingham, refurbish 40 disability sport wheelchairs for athletes in Bangladesh HHP Doctoral Student Vivian Rose Featured in the Journal of Experimental Biology Dr. Gorniak's Study on Postmenopausal Women with Type 2 Diabetes Featured on UH News Dr. Pranav Parikh Wins Faculty Excellence Award Upcoming Events and Deadlines June 6 First day of classes - Summer Sessions 1, 2 and 3 July 4 Independence Day Holiday July 11 First day of classes - Summer Session 4 In the SpotlightUH/Baylor College of Medicine Collaborative Grant for Virtual Platform to Improve Motor-function of Cancer Survivors Researchers from the University of Houston and Baylor College of Medicine, led by Health and Human Performance faculty Beom-Chan Lee, Ph.D. and Bijan Najafii, Ph.D. (BCM) have been awarded a grant to develop a virtual platform to improve motor-function of cancer survivors. Learn More In the SpotlightHHP Scholarship Winners for 2020-21 The Department of Health and Human Performance has declared the winners of the Mary Louise White scholarship, Barry Pelton scholarship, Margie Sterr scholarship and the HHP scholarship for 2020-21. Learn More "hhp.at.uh" University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies