/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Ph.D. Student Handbook Courses People Department Faculty Department Faculty Department Faculty Emeritus Faculty Graduate Field Faculty Current Grad Students Ph.D. Alumni Research Faculty Publications Ph.D. Student Publications Lectures The Center Visitor Information Reservable Spaces John Henrik Clarke Africana Library Support ASRC About Department Staff & Contacts History of Africana Studies at Cornell Alumni The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Pioneering the establishment of "Africana" and advancing its development Africana Studies and Research Center In the 21st century and nearly 55 years after its inception, the Africana Studies & Research Center remains committed to continuing academic innovation in the field of Africana studies and to remaining at its forefront theoretically and pedagogically, while sustaining its ongoing commitments to activism and community engagement. Africana Studies and Research Center News Eight years after its water crisis, Flint doesn’t just need policy reform: It needs a PR boost "Eight years ago this spring, unelected bureaucrats in Flint, Mich., switched the city’s municipal water source from Lake Huron to the Flint River. The sting of the decision persists to this day." Read More Cornell University File Photo Migrations grants fund worldwide interdisciplinary projects Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge, part of Global Cornell, has awarded grants totaling more than $500,000 to support faculty research addressing wide-ranging questions around domestic and global migration. Read More Reunion 2022 features host of A&S events A number of special events are planned in the College of Arts & Sciences to celebrate Reunion 2022. Read More Pursuit: Salon On 5/27 and 5/28, Kristen Wright's one act play A PURSUIT will be performed in person at The Cherry Arts in Ithaca at 7:30 pm on both nights. If you will be in the Ithaca area at that time, please come out! Read More Einaudi awards fund global research and activities Seed grants, student travel grants and internships totaling $355,000 in the 2021–22 academic year supported international work done by many A&S faculty and students. Read More Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More "The mistrust does not date back to the colonial era" The attitude of African states to the Ukraine war is ambivalent. Political scientist Siba Grovogui explains why this is the case and why he also blames the West. Read More The members of Alpha Phi Alpha who made a pilgrimage to Cornell, along with community members, on Nov. 19, 2005 in Sage Chapel. First Black fraternity to build monument at its birthplace In the early 1900s, Cornell was one of a few major universities that welcomed Black students, but social segregation of the time prohibited them from living in campus housing. Read More See more news A broad preparation Undergraduate Program The Africana studies undergraduate major and minor prepare students for a broad range of academic and professional careers in both the public and private sectors. Africana studies has a history of shaping students' intellectual discipline, creativity, and social and political awareness. The undergraduate program An unique perspective Graduate Program An interdisciplinary global study of race and Blackness makes Africana studies at Cornell a significant resource for graduate students who want to engage in the interdisciplinary study of Black people in Africa, the African diaspora and around the globe. The graduate program Upcoming Africana Events See more Africana events Useful Links for Students Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Faculty The Center A unique resource The Africana Studies & Research Center The Africana Studies & Research Center extends the teaching and learning opportunities that we provide in both our undergraduate and graduate classrooms well beyond to service learning projects and community initiatives, from local to transnational contexts. The Center 310 Triphammer Road Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Africana Studies and Research Center 607-255-4625 Twitter Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top