Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Admissions Visit IU & Bloomington Visit IU & Bloomington See one of the world’s most beautiful campuses We hear it over and over: after students visit IU Bloomington, they know IU is the college for them. Our limestone buildings and expansive green spaces will inspire you to imagine all the amazing things you’ll do here. And when you exchange smiles with students from around the world, you’ll start to feel what it means to be a Hoosier. Prospective undergraduate visits Come see campus in person! All visitors must adhere to health and safety guidelines, personal precautions, and any applicable travel restrictions. You can also experience IU in lots of other ways, including virtual visits.Discover your visit options Options for more kinds of visitors Find your visit information below, and see our campus map and details about visitor parking and transportation. Prospective graduate students The University Graduate School offers several types of tours. Also arrange a meeting with your department of interest. International students The Office of International Services (OIS) will direct you to your options. You should also meet with an OIS staff member. All other visitors The IU Visitor Information Center offers Sunday tours, group tours, and a self-guided tour for visitors of all ages. While you’re here, visit Bloomington B-town is a great place to visit—and an even better place to spend the best years of your life. Stroll its tree-lined streets to find restaurants offering cuisine from more than 40 ethnicities, as well as cozy coffeehouses, local shops, arts venues, and miles of trails.Go to VisitBloomington.com How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University