COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Mechanical Engineering, Doctorate DoctorateMechanical Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Mechanical Engineering A Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in mechanical engineering from Wichita State will prepare you for high-paying, high-demand career options in virtually any industry—from aircraft and automotive to medical and energy. You’ll have access to some of the best research facilities in the country and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and throughout Kansas’ largest city. Learn how Mechanical Engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application GoBabyGo! gives mechanical engineering students the opportunity to gain hands-on industry experience while also making a difference in children's lives. Engineering and physical therapy students collaborate to modify off-the-shelf toy ride-on cars for children with disabilities. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program In addition to the general admission requirements, admission to the Ph.D. program requires: A minimum GPA of 3.25 in all graduate coursework Official GRE scores Two letters of recommendation from faculty A statement of purpose indicating research interests Non-native speakers of English must provide a TOEFL score of at least 550 paper or 79 internet-based, OR an overall band score of 6.5 on the IELTS examination. For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Summer internship propels engineering senior forward Before her senior year, Amy McClain already had her foot in the door, having spent the summer interning at a Kansas City engineering firm. It was a competitive process, but being part of such a strong program as a mechanical engineering major at WSU gave Amy the skills and connections to get the job. “Apply, apply, apply to all the internship programs out there. Having experience is vital for job searches in the industry.” Curriculum The Ph.D. degree is a four-year program requiring rigorous study and a high degree of emphasis on original research. Currently, three areas of specialization exist at the doctoral level in mechanical engineering: Thermal/Fluid Sciences Mechanical Systems and Design Materials Science and Engineering To earn the Ph.D., students must pass comprehensive exams, a dissertation approval exam and dissertation defense. View the curriculum Careers Whether you’re pursuing a promotion or preparing for a Ph.D., WSU’s vast industry connections, research opportunities and unmatched facilities create an environment for our engineering students to gain the expertise that leads to dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©