Skip to content Search Site: Powered by Search Campus: Powered by Search Campus University of Utah COVID-19 Updates The University of Utah Main Title Sub Title Admissions Office of Admissions Apply Prospective Students Request information Campus Tours Events Undergraduate Graduate International Students Asia Campus New Students Freshman Confirm/Deposit Financial Aid & Scholarships New Student Orientation Registrar Housing Academic Calendar Student Life Student Affairs Housing The MUSS The Union Student Life Center Student Leadership & Involvement SafeU Academics Academic Resources Catalogs, Schedules & Calendar Colleges & Departments Majors Graduate School Student Success Libraries Global U Research Arts The Arts on Campus Upcoming Events Academic Programs Professional Arts Youth Arts U of U Health Education Research Patient Care Athletics Utah Athletics Buy Tickets Schedule Crimson Club Shop Utah Gear Donate SearchReveal Menu Reveal Menu Main Navigation Main Menu Home Admissions Office of Admissions Apply Prospective Students Request information Campus Tours Events Undergraduate Graduate International Students Asia Campus New Students Freshman Confirm/Deposit Financial Aid & Scholarships New Student Orientation Registrar Housing Academic Calendar Student Life Student Affairs Housing The MUSS The Union Student Life Center Student Leadership & Involvement SafeU Academics Academic Resources Catalogs, Schedules & Calendar Colleges & Departments Majors Graduate School Student Success Libraries Global U Research Arts The Arts on Campus Upcoming Events Academic Programs Professional Arts Youth Arts U of U Health Education Research Patient Care Athletics Utah Athletics Buy Tickets Schedule Crimson Club Shop Utah Gear Donate U of U Health Education Research Patient Care U Quick Links A-Z Index Campus Directory Campus Map Shuttle Tracker CIS UMail @ The U About the U Apply Visit Give Home Current Page: About The University of Utah Step one: Imagine. Step two: Do. Imagine what you want to accomplish, then really making it happen. Imagine designing and publishing a video game before earning your diploma, starting a business while studying business, and doing all this in a setting that begs you to get out and do something. Imagine, then Do. Opportunity awaits and all things are possible at a place we call Imagine U. The University of Utah. Campus is a Destination Whether it's lectures, concerts, museums, gardens, or Broadway-quality theatre, campus is chock full of exciting things to do nearly every day of the year. Attractions include the Natural History Museum of Utah, Kingsbury Hall, Pioneer Theatre, Red Butte Garden, and the Utah Museum of Fine Arts. LEARN MORE ABOUT CAMPUS IS A DESTINATION PAC-12 Athletics After proving itself as the original "BCS buster", Utah Football and the rest of Utah Athletics accepted an invitation to join the Pac-12. Utah's sporting prowess isn't the only reason the U was asked to join one of the nation's premier conferences — the University's academic achievements and strong scientific research played a major part. With a new set of schools to compete with, all boasting rich traditions in athletics and academics, it's an exciting time to be a part of the University of Utah! Learn More About PAC-12 Athletics Luminaries: Who Knew? Ed Catmull, B.S. '69, Ph.D. '74, and President of Pixar Studios, is just one of many notable alumni from the University of Utah. More Luminaries Founded in 1850; Serves over 31,000 students More Facts Entertainment Arts and Engineering Ranked No. 1 More Rankings Follow Our Social Stream The University of Utah 201 Presidents Circle Salt Lake City, UT 84112 801.581.7200 Resources Future Students Students Parents & Families Faculty Staff Visitors Alumni Initiatives Research Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Sustainability Employment U Leadership University Safety About the U Information Office of the President Give to the U Media Contacts Ute Proud Campus Events Community Contact - Feedback Quick Links A-Z Index Campus Directory Campus Map Shuttle Tracker CIS UMail @ The U © 2022 The University of Utah Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Credits & Attributions Media Contacts Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Last Updated: 1/11/21