Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, & Biochemistry Graduate Program Home About Us Degree Programs PhD - Curricular Overview Masters Program Admission and Financial Support People Research Prospective Students Member Portal Site Navigation Home About Us People Current Students Faculty Recent Graduates Leadership Events Inclusive Diversity Life in Providence Career Outcomes NIH Training Grant Degree Programs PhD - Curricular Overview Curricular Tracks Professional Development Program Retreat Masters Program Admission and Financial Support People Research Research Facilities and Infrastructure Publications People Prospective Students People People Member Portal Masters Program Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry Five-Year Integrated Baccalaureate-Masters Program The Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry Graduate Program (MCBGP) offers a five year combined bachelors/masters degree program leading to either a Master of Arts (MA) or a Master of Science (MS) degree in Biology. The program is designed to develop expertise in key areas of modern biological science, notably Molecular Biology and Genetics, Cell Biology, Biochemistry and Developmental Biology. Benefits of Fifth-Year MA or MS Degree Students will gain advanced knowledge of biological systems, training in reading and analyzing the primary research literature, and practice in communicating scientific concepts and data to a general audience. MS students will also participate in research and present their findings, gaining critical laboratory and computational skills. Knowledge and skills gained in the program can be applied to many future goals including medical school, PhD programs, MD/PhD programs, the biotechnology industry, teaching, and intellectual property law. 5th Year Masters Program 5th year Masters programs are open to Brown students. Applicants must meet or exceed requirements for Brown undergraduate concentration in Biology. Students interested in the program are strongly encouraged to contact the MCBGP as early as the start of their junior year. Must apply for 5th year Master’s program before completion of undergraduate studies. Application form with a proposed curriculum should be submitted to the Graduate School. Students will complete a minimum of 8 tuition units in MCBGP approved courses. All courses will be taken for a letter grade (A/B/C, not S/NC) A grade of B or higher is required in 8 courses Students will demonstrate competency in the four MCBGP core disciplines of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Cell Biology, Biochemistry and Developmental Biology Up to 2 credits taken during undergraduate study can be applied to the 5th year masters if these courses were not used to fulfill an undergraduate concentration requirement. The 5th year masters curriculum will not include BIOL 2030 (Foundations for Advanced Study in the Life Sciences) There is no financial support available through the MCB Graduate Program for 5th year masters training. The MCBGP MS Students will be supervised by a research advisor who is a MCBGP trainer The application must include a letter of recommendation from the MS research advisor, indicating willingness to advise and support the directed research project Students will write, present and publicly defend a Masters Thesis resulting from their directed research Upon matriculation, an advisory committee (including the research advisor and the MCBGP Director) will convene to help students design their curriculum using the following guidelines: At least 2 and as many as 4 credits will be directed research (2980) At least 2 credits will be graduate seminar courses (2000 level) At least 2 credits will be advanced lecture based courses (2000 level) Remaining courses will be determined by the initial advisory committee and can include undergraduate and/or advanced lecture based courses and graduate seminar courses. There is no financial support available through the MCB Graduate Program for MS training. The MCBGP MA Directed research is not available in the MA program Upon matriculation, an advisory committee (including the MCBGP Director and one other MCBGP faculty member) will convene to help students design their curriculum using the following guidelines: At least 2 credits will be graduate seminar courses (2000 level) At least 2 credits will be advanced lecture based courses (2000 level) Remaining courses will be determined by the initial advisory committee and can include undergraduate and/or advanced lecture based courses and graduate seminar courses There is no financial support available through the MCB Graduate Program for MA training. Calendar Jun 16 2:00pm - 6:00pm Fourth Annual Dr. Samuel M. Nabrit Conference for Early Career Scholars Jun 17 9:00am - 7:00pm Fourth Annual Dr. Samuel M. Nabrit Conference for Early Career Scholars View full calendar > Degree Programs PhD - Curricular Overview Masters Program Admission and Financial Support People Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Graduate Program Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Graduate Program Brown University Box G-L209 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1661 Fax: 401-863-1182 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top