Skip to main content Menu Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Research About Home About Who We Are Recognition and Awards Council for Diversity & Inclusion Corporate CDO Advisory Board Programs and Initiatives Men of Color National Summit Women's Roundtable Pre-Summit Supporting Diversity Contact Us Shared Leadership Access and Equity Charles H. Houston Center Diversity Education and Training Gantt Multicultural Center Hispanic Outreach Strategic Planning for Inclusive Excellence Title IX Commissions Accessibility Commission Commission on the Black Experience Commission on Latino Affairs LGBTQ Commission Commission on Women Veterans Commission Main Content Programs and Initiatives In classrooms and labs, professors see how diversity brings new ideas to the table and forces people to look at issues from many different perspectives. Diversity not only enriches the education experience of students, it also promotes personal growth and strengthens America’s economic competitiveness. Below is a sampling of academic excellence programs, scholarships and other initiatives that Clemson University has invested in that help maintain an inclusive and dynamic learning environment. Student Excellence Programs Scholarships Grants Training and Education Student Excellence Programs Call me MISTER The mission of the Call Me MISTER (Mentors Instructing Students Toward Effective Role Models) national initiative is to increase the pool of available teachers from diverse cultures and backgrounds to serve in economically disadvantaged and educationally at-risk communities. Call me Doctor Fellows Program Clemson University’s Institute for Biological Interfaces of Engineering graduate fellows program, Call me Doctor, was created to partner minority engineering and science doctoral fellows with education doctoral students and faculty members to deliver cutting-edge science and engineering concepts to the community and K-12 classrooms. Emerging Scholars The mission of Clemson’s Emerging Scholars Program is to establish a college-going culture among students in families from South Carolina’s economically disadvantaged areas by providing academic enrichment, developing students’ leadership skills and increasing students’ college preparedness. FIRST The FIRST Program helps first-generation college students in all academic majors at Clemson succeed in college and attain their career goals. Diversity Career Resources Find diversity career resources on this webpage available from the Michelin Career Center. The page includes a large listing of career opportunities and resources for minority and special interest groups. PEER/WISE The mission of PEER/WISE is to increase and retain women and under-represented minorities in engineering and science. PEER supports African-American and Hispanic/Latino American students in the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences from the time they arrive at Clemson through graduation, and WISE encourages women to prepare for, obtain and succeed in careers in STEM majors. Tiger Alliance Clemson University is taking bold steps in the form of Tiger Alliance to help empower, enlighten and develop African-American, Latino and Hispanic young men by emphasizing the importance of education and sharing best practices to increase high school and college graduation rates. Scholarships Diversity Scholarships Clemson strives to offer outstanding academic programs to a diverse student body. The University’s commitment to diversity is founded in the knowledge that intellectual, social and cultural diversity are essential ingredients in the educational process. As part of Clemson’s effort to create a diverse student body, several academic scholarships have been developed. Third-party Scholarships One list of available third-party scholarships can be found here. Grants Diversity and Inclusive Excellence Incentive Grant Fund The Diversity and Inclusive Excellence Fund is intended to encourage and support faculty and staff members to create new opportunities for constructive interaction and cross-cultural learning. The primary goal of this initiative is to enhance student learning. This fund is not intended to support ongoing programs, research projects, individual projects, international travel, or conference attendance, or merely to enhance staff or faculty salaries. Training and Education Learning and Development Clemson University believes that a diverse society enriches all individuals. Our students, faculty, and staff need to be prepared to succeed in a more diverse and global workforce than ever before. As champions of diversity, equity, and inclusion we are making Clemson University, and the communities we serve, stronger through learning and development. Available resources include: Academic Programs Articles Book List Certificate Programs Leadership Development Research @ Clemson University Tip Sheets Videos Websites Workshops For more information contact the Assistant Vice President for Diversity Education, Kendra D. Stewart-Tillman, PhD at stewar5@clemson.edu. Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram