Skip to main content Faculty Directory Cornell Engineering Apply Visit Give to Engineering Industry Partners Home Programs About Us Undergraduate Programs Master of Engineering Programs Design Your Own Program M.Eng. Information Sessions Focus Areas Admissions and Costs M.Eng. Degree Requirements M.Eng. FAQs M.Eng. Student Culture in MAE for Companies Graduate Programs Research People Academic Leadership Faculty Staff Directory Advisory Council Facilities Collaborative Facilities Across Campus Reuleaux Collection Sibley School Labs Alumni MAE Newsletter Giving Opportunities Recruit Students Resources Academic Support Experience and Employment for Students FLAME Graduate Services and Activities Jobs at MAE Mental Health Resources Undergraduate Services and Activities Open the search panel Menu Search Close Researchers calculate that advanced wind energy scenarios could reduce global warming Read More Ground-Breaking Research Meet Our Exceptional Faculty Experience Our World-Class Facilities Our Footprint News Hassani receives NSF CAREER Award for cold spray 3D printing April 6, 2022 The award will enable research into a type of additive manufacturing that smashes together material particles at supersonic speed. Read more about Hassani receives NSF CAREER Award for cold spray 3D printingMore News More Events Spotlight CEAA Awards honor aircraft design, CO2 capture, beloved CS professor The Cornell Engineering Alumni Association (CEAA) hosted their 39th annual awards banquet Friday, April 29, in the Upson Lounge, and honored engineers for their work in aircraft design, clean energy... Read more about CEAA Awards honor aircraft design, CO2 capture, beloved CS professorMore Spotlights Undergraduate Programs Mechanical Engineering Major Graduate Programs Master of Engineering Programs Master of Science Program Ph.D. Degree Zara Aamer '21 - Investigating the relationship between molecular structure and thermal transport Zara Aamer ‘21 is conducting research that investigates the relationship between molecular structure and thermal transport properties of three-dimensional covalent organic frameworks (COFs) with... Read more Marysol Luna '20, first Latina Ph.D. in mechanical engineering Meet Marysol Luna ’20, the first Latina to earn a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering at Cornell Read more Professor uses Scavenger Hunt to Engage Students Most educators know that it is hard to engage students through a virtual format, but one professor in the Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering found a creative solution. Introductory... Read more Rachel Zheng '21 - Building Search-and-Rescue Robotic Mission Simulator Last year, Rachel Zheng ’21, mechanical engineering major in the Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, worked with the Autonomous Systems Lab to build a search-and-rescue robotic... Read more Swanson ’61, M.Eng. ’63, to receive 2021 Distinguished Alumni Award John A. Swanson ’61, M.Eng. ’63, internationally recognized authority and innovator in the application of finite-element methods of engineering, will be honored with the 2021 Cornell Engineering Distinguished Alumni Award. Read more MAE Research Areas Advanced Manufacturing and Materials Biomechanics and Mechanobiology Bioengineering and Healthcare Energy and the Environment Robotics and Autonomy Space Science and Engineering Additional Research Areas News Events Spotlights MAE Blogs Contact Us Directions and Maps Intranet Admissions: 607 255-1805 DEPT Address: Cornell University 130 Upson Hall Ithaca, New York 14853 Connect with us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved. Web Accessibility Assistance