COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW About Online Learning Section Menu About Online Learning Computer Skills & Preparation How to Get Help Navigating Blackboard Online Readiness Self-Assessment Online Orientation Preparing for Assignments & Exams Tips to Succeed Viewing Panopto Online Orientation FLS 20 Gallery Pages About Online Learning Just like face-to-face classes, online learning can differ depending on the instructor and the subject. Instructors may use the online learning environment, or classroom, to provide readings, exercises, communication forums, supplemental materials (video), assignments and quizzes. For blended- or hybrid-learning classes, online materials are often intended to enable more time for face-to-face instruction and discussion. These courses require you to spend some time engaged in some type of online activity throughout the week and not just on the days your class is scheduled. Fully online courses often require more time and energy than regular classes. Although they are convenient and flexible, students must be disciplined enough to set aside time to study and participate. Though many online classes utilize videos and lecture recording, students who learn best by reading and writing tend to be most comfortable in these classes. If you learn better by hearing and attending lectures or making presentations, an on-campus class might be a better fit. You may also be required to take all of your exams with a proctor. If so, you are responsible for all charges involved in taking proctored exams (typically $10-25 per exam). To assist you in assessing whether an online course or course that requires a substantial amount of online work is right for you, please take the Online Readiness Self-Assessment. Learning Style Comparison Chart * You might prefer Courses with Online Learning if you... You might prefer Traditional Courses if you... Have excellent time management skills Work better in structured time environment Enjoy communicating with others through list-servs, discussion groups, and email Like instructional and social interaction of face-to-face classroom Learn best by reading or watching Learn best by listening and speaking Prefer not to drive to campus and are able to commit other time for completing and submitting the assignments Are able to commit the time for commuting and attending 3 – 4 hours of class per week and completing projects Have heavy work or family responsibilities Are able to come to class on campus Have convenient and reliable access to the Internet at most times Have difficulty obtaining regular access to the Internet and email Are self-motivated Are motivated by others Prefer to work at own pace and at flexible or non-traditional times Need definite deadlines Have some computer skills and enjoy using the Internet Are uncomfortable using a computer Enjoy taking control of own learning Like more direction/structure provided by instructor * Reproduced by permission from the Lamar Institute of Technology BACK | TOP | NEXT 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©