Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Student Affairs right arrow down arrow Student Affairs Leadership Team Annual Report Division Councils right arrow down arrow Marketing Materials Staff Resources right arrow down arrow ROOTEd Emerging Leaders right arrow down arrow UC Serves Professional Development Committee Engagement Committee Upcoming Events ELSA Spotlights Prevention Training Signature Events right arrow down arrow Memorial Service Women's History Month Policies right arrow down arrow Student-Related Critical Incidents Response Policy Resources for Suicide Prevention Mental Health Assessment Involuntary Withdrawal Medical Leave of Absence Missing Residents in On-Campus Housing Facilities Anti-Hazing Policy New Students right arrow down arrow Bearcats Boost Visit Us Bridging Bearcats Get to Know Student Affairs Home » Campus Life » Student Affairs Student Affairs Student Affairs advocates for and meets students' diverse needs by providing innovative co-curricular experiences that enhance well-being, foster life and academic skill development, engender responsibility and grow leadership capability. Free Speech at UC Our Programs Our division is comprised of over 20 departments that support and enhance the student journey and experience at UC. We encourage staff, faculty, and students to learn more about these resources, visit our offices, get to know us, and reach out for help when you need it! We can partner with you in student success. If you are unable to identify an office that can support the student need or concern you have identified, please contact us at stdtaffs@ucmail.uc.edu or 513-556-4119. We are here to help! Academic Success Accessibility Resources Cincinnati Pride Grant Gen-1/1MPACT House McNair Scholars Testing Services Veterans Programs & Services (VPS) Community Standards Bearcat Bond/Student Code of Conduct Student Conduct & Community Standards Health & Wellness CARE Team Counseling & Psychological Services Student Wellness Center Personal & Social Engagement Bearcat Bands CampusLINK Center for Community Engagement Fraternity & Sorority Life Resident Education & Development (RED) Student Activities and Leadership Development Social Justice & Identity African American Cultural & Resource Center (AACRC) Ethnic Programs & Services (EPS) LGBTQ Center Women's Center Student Advocacy Bearcat Emergency Fund Bearcats Pantry & Career Closet Dean of Students Office Ombuds Parent & Family Programs Safe Apartment Signature Campus Events Commencement Convocation Family Weekend Student Impact Symposium Welcome Week Our Pillars Accessible Culture of Academic Success: Services and programs are intentionally designed to support and promote a culture of academic success for all students. Students who participate in academic support services will achieve academic success, be retained, and graduate. Holistic Development of Students: Leadership and educational programs are focused on the holistic development of student participants. Students will discover and define their personal value and goals, and identify how those will be realized at UC and beyond. Intentional Student Advocacy: Intentional student advocacy programs educate and develop a UC community that is inclusive and affirming. Students experiencing consistent inclusion and respect throughout campus are empowered to fully engage with the UC community. Engaging Relationships and Experiences: Programs and experiences will provide students a safe space to engage with members of the UC community who can support their continued development and success. Students will cultivate relationships and have experiences that create bonds and support their retention and success at UC. University of Cincinnati's Official Statement on Medical Marijuana and Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us During regular business hours (Monday-Friday, 8am-5pm), call us at 513-556-4119 or visit us in Steger Student Life Center, Suite 630. Directions The accessible entrance is on the west side of Steger Student Life Center. Take the ramp between Steger and Swift Hall. At the top of the ramp to the right, enter Steger Student Life Center through the double doors. Our welcome desk is on your left. In Case of Emergency Please call the 24-Hour Consultation Crisis Helpline at 513-556-0648. Additional resources for students in crisis are available on the Counseling & Psychological Services website. Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. CPS grad finds ‘UC makes dreams come true’ May 19, 2022 Benya Colleman is one of 10 students who has been awarded the University of Cincinnati’s Marian Spencer Scholarship created to recognize high-achieving students in Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS). UC celebrates grand opening of Student Wellness Center March 24, 2022 The University of Cincinnati’s new and expanded Student Wellness Center space, which opened to students last fall, celebrated its grand opening earlier this month. The team, who work to empower students to make informed decisions regarding their health and wellness through evidence-based education, inclusive resources, and non-judgmental support, have seen an almost immediate impact. 96% of visitors said their overall well-being was improved after visiting the space. 75% of visitors indicated their visit made them feel less lonely. Debug Query for this Request More Information University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top