Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links The Jesuit Institute Menu Main Nav The Jesuit Institute The Jesuit Institute Contact Back Back Close About Overview History of the Jesuit Institute Contact Conferences Overview Amoris Laetitia Toward a Culture of University Ethics Growing Apart Our Common Home International Networking in the Society of Jesus Secularization and the Jesuits Jesuit Survival and Restoration Events Overview Lectures Past Events Programs Overview Interdisciplinary Seminars Visiting Fellows Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Programs Visiting Fellows Programs Interdisciplinary Seminars Visiting Fellows Visiting Fellows The Jesuit Institute invites to Boston College scholars from other institutions around the world whose research and writing bear upon the religious dimension of culture. The purpose of this Visiting Fellows program is to support scholars from the Global South (Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, and Latin America) who are working in projects on faith, culture, and the common good. They are supported so that they may share with the academic community at Boston College the fruits and the challenges of their own research. Their appointments coincide with our semester schedule. There are two fellows each semester. Their benefits include housing, round trip airfare, a budget to attend a conference of their field, fully-equipped office at the Institute, and a monthly stipend. In order to be considered for a fellowship, scholars from the Global South must be nominated by a BC faculty member who will serve as their sponsor, that is, their host within the department of their field of inquiry. The fellow must give one University lecture, and the hope is that they learn about how we connect professionally so as to develop more as an international scholar. Any faculty member at Boston College may nominate a scholar from the Global South for the fellowship. Nominations should be sent to the Director, Father James Keenan (james.keenan.2@bc.edu). Past Visiting Fellows 2019–2020 Visiting Fellows 2019-2020 Visiting Fellows Anicet N'Teba Mbengi Spring 2020 Anicet N'Tebe Mbengi is a priest of the Society of Jesus (Jesuit). Originally from Kwango Province in the Democratic Republic of Congo. He obtained his doctorate in Ecclesiastical History from the Pontifical Gregorian University (Rome). He is a teacher and researcher. N'Teba was Director and Dean of the Institut de Théologie de la Compagnie de Jésus in Abidjan (Côte d'Ivoire). Currently, he is Deputy Director of the Jesuit Historical Institute in Africa (Nairobi-Kenya) and teacher at Hekima College (Nairobi-Kenya). He is interested in the history of the Society of Jesus and the evangelization of Africa. While at Boston College N'Teba finalized the writing of his book on the Jesuit Province of West Africa and presented it to faculty and grad students at the Jesuit Institute on February 17, 2020. Antonio Autiero Fall 2019 Antonio Autiero (born in Naples/Italy 1948) received his doctoral degree in moral theology at the Accademia Alfonsiana in Rome and in Philosophy at the University of Naples. From 1983-1985 he was a fellow of the Foundation Alexander von Humboldt at the University of Bonn (Germany). In 1991 he became professor of moral theology at the University of Münster, until his retirement in 2013. In the time 1997-2011 he directed the Center for Religious Studies of Trento (Italy. Antonio Autiero has authored or edited books and articles (about 250) on fundamental moral theology, theories of moral subject and in the field of applied ethics. Autiero is a member of German Academy of Ethics in the Medicine, of the StemCell Research governmental commission in Berlin and of the Planning Committee of Catholic Theological Ethics in the World Church. He is also coordinator of the ethics group by Comece (commission of European episcopal conferences) in Brussels. Autiero was a visiting Fellow at Boston College (Jesuit Institute) from September 14, 2019 until January 15, 2020. Veronica Rop Fall 2019 Veronica Jemanyur Rop is the immediate leader of the Assumption Sisters of Eldoret (ASE), a local Congregation based in Kenya where she served for five years (2013-2018) as the Superior General and executive member for Association of Sisterhoods of Kenya (AOSK). Veronica is a PhD graduate of the Catholic University of Eastern Africa, Kenya, 2016. She is a visiting scholar at Boston College, working on her research from September until December 2019. With a background from theology, Rop holds a PhD degree in Theology with specialization in Moral Theology. Her research is on Integral Human Development: A African Perspective. Veronica holds a Master’s degree in Practical Theology as well as Counselling from Barry University, Miami Shores, Florida. Veronica was a receiptant of a CTEWC Scholarship for African women and a contributor for CTEWC Newsletter African FORUM. Her articles include Rop, Veronica Jemanyur “Giving a Voice to African Women through Education”, in Hogan Linda & Orobator Agbonkhianmeghe. E., (eds.), in Feminist Catholic Theological Ethics: Conversations in the World Church, New York: Orbis Books, 2014, 42-53, “Escalation of Killings in Kenya: A Call for Respect for Human Life,” “Ushering African Women into the Year of Faith: Reflection on Motu Proprio Data,” “CTEWC in Africa after Trento: Engaging the African Synod,” “The African Synod: The Participation of Women in Reconciliation Justice and Peace,” and “The Challenge Posed by Apostolic Letter Mulieris Dignitatem to the African Perspective on the Dignity of Women.” Richard N. Rwiza Fall 2019 Richard N. Rwiza is a Catholic Priest, Associate Professor of Moral Theology and Head of the Department of CUEA Press at The Catholic University of Eastern Africa (CUEA) Nairobi-Kenya. He is a Visiting Fellow at the Jesuit Institute, Boston College, researching from September to December 2019 on “Environmental Ethics in the African Context.” Rwiza has a wide range of academic and pastoral experience. He headed the Department of Moral Theology for almost eight years. He is currently the Chairperson of the Licentiate Committee of the Faculty of Theology in CUEA. Rwiza holds Licentiate degrees (STL) in Moral Theology from CUEA and Theology from Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium. He has a PhD in Theology (STD) from Leuven University. Rwiza is the author of several works including “Formation of Christian Conscience in Modern Africa” (Nairobi, Paulines Publications Africa) and “Ethics of Human Rights: The African Contribution” (Nairobi, CUEA Press). Fr. Rwiza served as Secretary-General of the Catholic Archdiocese of Arusha, Tanzania between 2003 and 2007. 2018–2019 Visiting Fellows 2018-2019 Visiting Fellows Phan Ngoc Mingh Fall 2018 Phan Ngoc Mingh was born in 1954 in Quang Nam. He graduated from Ho Chi Mingh City Fine Arts University and is a member of Vietnam Association of Fine Arts. He participated in Group Exhibitions in Vietnam and abroad and the following Solo Exhibitions: 1994 — “Memories of the Ancient” in Danang 1998 — “My Son Diary” in My Son Sanctuary 2000 — “Phan Ngoc Mingh and Champa” in Galerie Impressions, Paris, France 2004 — ‘My Son—Hoi An et Souvenir de Paris" in Paris, France 2005 — “Union Generale des Vietnamiens de France” in Paris, France 2008 — “Vietnam/Kerry & Minh” in Gregory Gallery, Co. Kerry, Ireland 2009 — “Minh & Heritages” in La Résidence Hotel & Spa, Hue, Vietnam 2010/11 — Winner, Freeman Foundation Asian Artists Fellowship and solo exhibition at Vermont Studio Center’s Red Mill Gallery, Johnson, VT, USA 2015 —“Ceramics & Woman” in Poterie l’Alandier, La Roche Bernard, Morbihan (Bretagne), France 2018 — "Journey Through Boston College's Religious Identity," Exhibition at Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA USA Yvon Christian Elenga, S.J. Fall 2018 Yvon Christian Elenga, S.J., is a Jesuit priest who holds a STD from Weston Jesuit School of Theology (Cambridge, MA). Since 2006, he is teaching theology at Institut de Théologie de la Compagnie de Jésus (Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire), where he was Dean of studies (2010-2012), and Rector (2012-2018). During the academic year 2008-2009, he taught at St. Joseph’s University (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania). He is a Visiting Scholar at the Boston College’s Jesuit Institute. From his previous education, he has background in literature and philosophy. In theology, his areas of concentration are fundamental theology, systematic theology—especially Christology, Ecclesiology, and Political theology. He is the author of articles, and reviews published in Didaskalia, Kanien, Spiritus, Telema, Vidyajyoti. He also contributed bookchapters in numerous books, namely The Catholic Church and the Nation State (2006), La dialectique de la foi et de la raison (2007), Reconciliation, Justice and Peace (2014), L’Eglise en Afrique 50 ans après les indépendances (2013), Many Tongues One Spirit (2013), Culture et foi dans la théologie africaine (2014). In addition to that, he has entries in the forthcoming Dictionnaire de théologie africaine and Encyclopedia of African Religions and Philosophy. While at Boston College, Yvon will pursue research projects on political theology and trends in contemporary African Ecclesiology. 2017–2018 Visiting Fellows 2017-2018 Visiting Fellows Anna Kasafi Perkins Spring 2018 Anna Kasafi Perkins is an ethicist moonlighting as a quality assurance professional at the University of the West Indies, Jamaica. A former dean of studies/lecturer at St Michael’s Theological College and graduate of Boston College, she has an eclectic set of research interests centring around faith, ethics and popular culture in the Jamaican/Caribbean context with a particular focus on DanceHall. Her publications include, Justice as Equality: Michael Manley’s Caribbean Vision of Justice (2010), Justice and Peace in a Renewed Caribbean: Contemporary Catholic Reflections (2012, edited volume), Is Moral Dis-Ease Making Jamaica Ill? Revisiting the Conversation (2013) and Quality in Higher Education in the Caribbean (2015, edited volume). Her current writing project, tentatively entitled, “Throwing Words: Christianity, Ethics and Jamaican Popular Culture”, attempts to explore the intersections between dominant notions of Christian living and DanceHall culture in Jamaica but ranges beyond to treat with aspects of political culture, citizenship, race, masculinity, and sex and sexuality. Individual chapters explore varying aspects of Church-Culture interface in a fashion that moves the interaction beyond simple condemnation and prohibition, while opening up a space for theological-ethical perspectives; many of these explorations will be refracted through the lens of DanceHall, which gives expression to the social imaginary of the Jamaican people while forming it at the same time. “ ‘All you have to do is repent before you die’: Tanya Stephens confronts the Doctrine of Repentance” is part of this larger project. Hugo H. Rabbia Spring 2018 Hugo H. Rabbia is a researcher at the Psychology Research Institute (IIPsi) of the National Scientific and Technological Council (CONICET), at the National University of Cordoba (UNC), Argentina. He is a Professor in Social and Political Psychology, at the Catholic University of Cordoba (UCC). He obtained a PhD in Latin American Social Studies at the UNC, and a Master’s Degree in Latin American Social Studies at the Autonomic University of Madrid (Spain) and the Université Toulouse-Le Mirail (France), as a Carolina grant fellow. He was the director of the Argentinean team involved in the international research project “The transformation of lived religion in urban Latin America: A study of contemporary Latin Americans experience of transcendence” (2015-2018), with Universities from Argentina, Peru, United States and Uruguay, granted by the John Templeton Foundation. He is author of many papers, articles and books chapters on political participation, social attitudes and religiosity. His current research project, entitled “Types and characteristics of ‘non religious’: social and political attitudes from the outside of religion”, attempt to explore the ongoing complexity of a growing number of ‘nones’ in Argentina, focusing on their attitudes toward gender and sexual issues, the relationship between science and religion, and their political ideology. Nestor Da Costa Fall 2017 Nestor Da Costa is an Uruguayan sociologist, specialized in Sociology of Religion. He obtained PhD in Sociology (2003) at Universidad de Deusto, Bilbao, Spain. He is a researcher at the Catholic University of Uruguay and professor of Sociology of Religion and he also is part of the University CLAEH, at Montevideo. He is Co-PI of the international research project “The transformation of lived religion in urban Latin America: A study of contemporary Latin Americans experience of transcendence” (2015-2018) with Universities from Argentina, Peru, United States and Uruguay and the support of John Templeton Foundation. He is former president of the Association of Social Scientist of Religion at MERCOSUR (2011-2013). He has been International Coordinator of the Alfa Project of the European Union (2005-2008) on Religion and Modernity in Europe and Latin America. He was Fulbright scholar at University of California at Santa Barbara on Religion Pluralism and Public Presence at the United States (2005). He has been professor at Shanghai University. Is author of many research, articles and books on his field of work. Sr. Anne Nasimiyu Fall 2017 Anne Nasimiyu-Wasike has been a full professor of Systematic Theology at the Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies at Kenyatta University. For the last six years she was called upon to serve her Religious Institute as their Mother General. She has served two terms as Mother General of the Little Sisters of St. Francis.. She has played various academic roles while at Kenyatta University. For example, she has worked as Supervisor of Kenyatta University Students on Teaching Practice; as Examinations Officer for Philosophy and Religious Studies Department; Acting Dean of students, Kenyatta University; Chairperson of Departmental Postgraduate Committee, Religious Studies Department, Kenyatta University; Dean of Students, Chairperson, School of Humanities and Social Sciences Board of Postgraduate Studies. She has published various articles and book chapters for example, Vatican II and Liturgical Adaptations.” African Theological Journal 13.1 (1984); “The Other Africa: Sexism in African Society.” Raggio 54.6 (1987).“Polygamy: A Feminist Critique.” Apostolate to Nomads of AMECEA (ANA) 130-131 (1988).“Christology and an African Woman’s Experience.” Jesus in African Christianity: Experimentation and Diversity in African Christology. Eds. J.N.K. Mugambi and Laurenti Magesa. Nairobi: Initiatives, 1989. 123-135. Rpt. in Faces of Jesus in Africa. Ed. Robert J. Schreiter. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis, 1991. 70-81, and in Liberation Theology: An Introductory Reader. Eds. Curt Cadorette et al. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis, 1992. 92-103. She was the coordinator of the Circle of Concerned African Women Theologians in East Africa. She was also the women’s coordinator in Africa of the Ecumenical Association of Third World Theologians. She served on the editorial committee of Propositum, a periodical of Third Order Regular Franciscan history and spirituality published by the International Franciscan Conference. (1992- 2000). CV 2016–2017 Visiting Fellows 2016-2017 Visiting Fellows Zorica Maros Spring 2017 Zorica Maros studied theology in Sarajevo (Bosnia und Herzegovina) and proceeded her post-graduate studies in Rome, at the Academia Alfonsiana (Italy). She completed a master degree at the Academy in 2007 and was enrolled in a program for doctoral studies. In 2010, she returned to Bosnia and Herzegovina and started working at the Catholic Theological Faculty in Sarajevo. She defended her doctoral dissertation at the Academia Alfonsiana in January 2013. The topic was “Dealing with violence in the ethnic conflict: Is it possible to speak of forgiveness as a moral obligation?”. Currently she is teaching bioethics, sexual ethics and the sacrament of reconciliation at the Catholic Theological Faculty in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. At Catholic Theological Faculty in 2013, she started the program “From the War to Reconciliation: The Contribution of Religious Communities to the Healing and Rebuilding of Society," which included both a public discussion and international conferences on the topics of violence, injustice, and forgiveness from interdisciplinary and multi-religious points of view." Alberto Múnera Duque, S.J. Spring 2017 Alberto Múnera, S.J. is PhD in Philosophy and Literature, Universidad Javeriana, Bogotá; STD in Moral Theology, Università Gregoriana, Rome. The last six years he has been Director of undergraduate Programs at the School of Theology, Jesuit Javeriana University of Bogotá. He is former Dean of the School of Theology, of the School of Education and of the Graduate School for Interdisciplinary Studies in the same University, and former Director of the Institute for Social and Cultural Studies “Pensar”. He has been Professor of Moral Theology during more than 40 years. He was elected three times Vice-President and two times President of the World Conference of Catholic Theological Institutions. He is author of Teología Moral (1975), El Misterio de Dios (1978), Pecado Personal desde el Pecado Original (1985), De una Moral de los Manuales a una Moral Liberadora (1990), En las fuentes del Neoliberalismo: fundamentos ideológicos del Neoliberalismo en Friedrich von Hayek (2002) and several articles on Moral Theology. Maria Clara Lucchetti Bingemer Fall 2016 Maria Clara Lucchetti Bingemer is full professor of Systematic Theology at the Department of Theology of the Pontifical University of Rio de Janeiro (PUC-Rio). She also collaborates and guides doctoral thesis at the Literature Department of the same University. She is president of ALALITE (Asociacion Latinoamericana de Literatura y Teologia) and vice president of SOTER (Sociedade Brasileira de Teologia e Religiao). She is a member of the Theological Comitee of the Consejo Episcopal Latinoamericano (CLAM). She is also a member of several scientific journal committees, including Concilium, Xaveriana, JAAR and otheres. She has been the Fullbright Distinguished Chair of the Kellogg Institute in Notre Dame University and received fellowships from De Paul University, Chicago more than once and also from the KULeuven. She received her doctoral degree from the Pontifical Gregorian University, Rome, in 1989 and her thesis was about The Trinity in Saint Ignatius of Loyola. She teaches The Trinity and Fundamental Theology at undergrad and grad level. She has many publications in many languages, such as Portuguese, Spanish, French, Italian, English, German. CV 2015–2016 Visiting Fellows 2015-2016 Visiting Fellows Emilce Cuda Research Professor of Theology at the Faculty of Theology, Pontifical Catholic University of Argentina (UCA) and at Faculty of Philosophy, University of Buenos Aires (UBA); Associate Professor at National University Arturo Jauretche, Buenos Aires, Argentina (UNAJ), and Director at the research center in that university: Program of Culture Studies. She is permanent member of International Regional Committees at Catholic Theological Ethics in the World Church (CTEWC), and at the International Political Science Association (IPSA). She is member active at Argentine Theological Society (SAT). She obtained her Bachelour in Theology at the Pontifical Catholic University of Argentina (UCA); she obtained her Magister in Moral Theology and her Doctored in Moral Theology at the Pontifical Catholic University of Argentina (UCA) also. She has been visiting scholar at North Western University in 2011, where she studied Political Theory, and researched the relationship between populism and theological ethics under the direction of Ernesto Laclau. Her publications include Catolicismo y democracia en Estados Unidos (Buenos Aires: Agape, 2010), La democracia en el magisterio pontificio (Buenos Aires: Agape, 2011) and Para leer a Francisco. Teología, ética y política (Buenos Aires: Manantial, in edition). She has published many chapters of books about theology and politics in Buenos Aires, New York, London, Uruguay, New Delhi in company of important international authors like James Keenan, and over 30 articles about: democracy, migrant, populism, .people, labor, union, poverty and Liberation Theology. She has participated in International Conferences at Norway, Sweden, UK, Colombia, United States, Ecuador, Brasil, Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, Italy, Spain, Canada, Ecuador, Perú. She has organised two international conferences about Theology and Politics, London, 2013 and Argentina, 2014; and three international conferences about democracy and populism in Argetina, 2013, 2014 and 2015. Actually she is coordinating an international research team about "Theology, Ethics and Politics" at Consejo Latinoamericano de Ciencias Sociales (CLACSO) in company of Latin American theologians like: Juan Carlos Scannone, Pedro Trigo, Hernández Pico, Victor Codiva. Contact: emilcecuda@gmail.com Shaji George (Kochuthara), CMI Associate Professor of Theology at the Faculty of Theology, Dharmaram Viday Kshetram (DVK), Bangalore, India. From 2009 he has been the Chief Editor of Asian Horizons, Dharmaram Journal of Theology. He chairs the Institutional Ethical Board of St John’s Medical College (Bangalore), and is the Religious Adviser of the Ethics Committee of St Martha’s Hospital (Bangalore). He is a member of the Asian Regional Committee of “Catholic Theological Ethics in the World Church” and the Head of its Asian Forum. He completed his undergraduate studies at DVK (Bangalore) and Licentiate and doctoral studies in moral theology at the Pontifical Gregorian University, Rome. His publications include The Concept of Sexual Pleasure in the Catholic Moral Tradition (Rome: Gregorian, 2007), Moral Theology in India Today, ed. (2013) and Revisiting Vatican II: 50 Years of Renewal, 3 Volumes (2014-2015) [both, Bangalore: Dharmaram Publications) and over 50 articles. He has organised two conferences for moral theologians in India [“Moral Theology in India Today” 2012 & 2014], an international conference on Vatican II [“Re-visiting Vatican II: 50 Years of Renewal” 2013], and has hosted the Asian Regional CTEWC conference [2015] chaired by James F. Keenan and Yiu Sing Lúcás Chan. Marriage and Family Ethics, Sexual Ethics, Gender, History of Moral Theology, Natural Law, Healthcare Ethics and Social Justice are some of the areas of his research. Contact: kochuthshaji@gmail.com Konrad Józef Glombik Born 1970 in Racibórz in Silesia Superior, Glombik is Professor of Opole University, Priest of the Diocese Opole, Head of the Department of Moral Theology and Spirituality of the Opole University Faculty of Theology, Director of the Editorial Publishing House of the UO Theology Faculty and Editor in Chief of the Annual “Theological-Historic Studies of Opole Silesia”. Specialization Studies in Moral Theology at John Paul II Catholic University of Lublin and at the Alphonsian Academy in Rome. In 2000 he held Degree of Doctor in Theology from Catholic University of Lublin and in 2008 Habilitation on the Basis of the Dissertation Unity of two. The precursory character of a personalistic understanding of marriage by Herbert Doms (1890-1977). He is a Member of the Association of Polish Theologians Moralists and belongs to the International Organizations: Vereinigung für Katholische Sozialethik in Mitteleuropa, Görres Gesellschaft zur Pflege der Wissenschaft, Bioethicists in Central Europe (BCE), Internationale Vereinigung für Moraltheologie und Sozialethik. He is a Member of the Regional Committee for Europe of the Catholic Theological Ethics in the World Church. His Research deals with Issues of Ethics of Marriage and Family, Sexual Ethics, the Sacramentality of Marriage and the Sacrament of Penance and Reconciliation. He is the Author of several books and over 140 Articles concerning various Issues of Theological Ethics. Recently he edited Theological Ethic in a changing world and The Church on the Internet – The Internet in the Church. Contact: kglombik@uni.opole.pl Drazen Volk, S.J. Professor of Philosophy at the Faculty of Philosophy of the Society of Jesus in Zagreb (Croatia). He finished his doctoral studies at Gregorian University in Rome and received his doctorate in 2007. The areas of his teaching currently are Philosophy of Nature, History of 20th Century Philosophy and in the near future Philosophy of Religion. His professional interests lie in philosophical theories of symbol, especially in the theories of E. Cassirer, Ch. S. Peirce, P. Ricoeur and F. Rosenzweig. He is also an assistant of the editor-in-chief of the scientific journal for philosophy and sciences of religion, “Obnovljeni zivot” (in English: Renewed Life) and in 2016 he will become editor-in chief of this journal. Contact: d.volk@ffdi.hr 2014–2015 Visiting Fellows 2014-2015 Visiting Fellows Cristiano Casalini Born in 1976, Cristiano (degree in Philosophy, PhD in Philosophy of Education) teaches history of education at the university of Parma. His field of research is mainly 16th century education and especially the Jesuit education. He worked on critical texts and commentaries of 16th and 17th century classics of education, especially in and around the Jesuit order (Antonio Possevino, Juan Huarte de San Juan, Michel de Montaigne, Francesco Negri da Bassano). He also wrote a book on the Cursus Conimbricensis, the renown Jesuits’ philosophy handbook. Humors and Will. The Early Jesuits’ Pedagogy. This project is the advanced stage of research begun in 2008 with the critical edition of the Coltura degl'ingegni (1598) by Antonio Possevino SJ. I will try to reconstruct the outline of a specific way of understanding education, a real Jesuit educational philosophy, beyond the documented mass pertaining to the drafting of the Ratio studiorum. This pedagogy shows itself clearly in a wide range of primary sources, and in a scattered jesuit literature mostly neglected by scholars till now. This literature shows a common Jesuit tendency foster both the importance of the natural inclination of the young and of the will and the psycho-pedagogical skillfulness of the teacher. The natural inclination must therefore be favoured, but not at the expense of the growth of the whole man, a humanistic ideal to which the Jesuits remained faithful over the centuries. The interest of the research project for the Jesuit Institute lies, in my opinion, in this dimension of the longue durée that these cultural roots of Jesuit education continue to project into the present. Contact info: c.casalini1@live.com Rafael Luciani Prof. Luciani holds degrees of Doctor in Theology and Licenciate in Dogmatic Theology from the Pontifical Gregorian University of Rome; Baccalaureatum in Philosophy and Baccalaureatum in Theology from the Pontifical Salesian University of Rome; and Licenciate in Education (with mention in Philosophy) earned from the Jesuit`s Catholic University Andrés Bello in Caracas. He has been engaged for several years in postdoctoral research activities at the Julius-Maximilians Universität in Würzburg, Germany. He has been Director of the School of Theology and Coordinator for the creation of the Theology Area of the General Graduate Studies (for Lay Scholars) at the Catholic University Andrés Bello. Among his teachings, he is in charge of the courses on Biblical and Dogmatic Christology with several published works in the field. He also teaches Origins of Christianity and Mystery of God and several Topics on the relation between Faith and Politics. His articles, newspaper columns and interviews on political theology in the international media (El Universal, Aleteia and Radio Vaticana) are broadly followed by the public. Currently, he is a Profesor Titular (Full Professor) at the Jesuit`s Catholic University Andrés Bello in Caracas and Stabile at the Pontifical Salesian University in Rome. Among his Books, we suggest: “La Palabra olvidada: de la significación a la simbolización” (1997), “Despertar a la abundancia de la vida” (2000), “El misterio de la diferencia: un estudio tipológico de la analogía en el pensamiento de Tomás de Aquino, Erich Przywara y Hans Urs von Balthasar, y su uso en teología trinitaria” (2002), “Hermeneutics and Theology in Sobrino`s Christology” (2008), "Iglesia y Estado" (2013) and his most recent Bestseller "Regresar a Jesús de Nazaret" (2014). Contact info: lucianir@bc.edu Roman Globokar Roman Globokar, Professor of Theological Ethics at the Theological Faculty, University of Ljubljana. He studied at Gregorian University in Rome and received his doctorate in 2001. Currently he teaches Introduction to Theological Ethics, Religious Ethics, Fundamental Theological Ethics and Bioethics. Since 2006 he has been running the biggest Catholic educational institution in Slovenia, St. Stanislav's Institution. He is a member of the National Bioethics Committee. His main professional interest lies in the methodology of theological ethics, dialogue within the pluralistic society, role of natural law and in the field of bioethics. He works abundantly on the theoretical and practical aspect of ethical issues in education at all levels. Contact Info: globokar@bc.edu Back To Top Back To Top The Jesuit Institute Faber House 102 College Road Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-8290 james.keenan.2@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College