Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Menu Main Nav Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Contact Back Back Close About Overview Diversity & Inclusion Contact Dean of Law School Search Academics & Research Overview Accreditation Information Assessment BCPEP Grants and Awards University Council on Teaching Tam/Tame Details University Fellowships Committee Undergraduate Research Support Fellowships and Scholarships Fulbright U.S. Student Program Events Faculty Openings Faculty Resources Overview Faculty Annual Report Guide Faculty Recruiting Expense Reimbursement Guidelines Sabbaticals New Faculty Information New Faculty Moving Expenses Faculty Openings Documents & Reports Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close About Dean of Law School Search Dean of Law School Search Boston College has named Odette Lienau, professor of law and former associate dean for faculty research and intellectual life at Cornell University Law School, as the inaugural Marianne D. Short, Esq., Dean at Boston College Law School, effective January 2023. Professor Lienau will succeed Vincent Rougeau who stepped down in February 2021, to become the 33rd President of the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, MA. Updates Dean, Boston College Law School Announcement — May 2022 Dean, Boston College Law School Search Update — November 2021 BC Law School Dean Prospectus Published — October 2021 Updates Announcement of the Search Committee — August 2021 Announcement of Dean Rougeau’s transition to the Presidency of Holy Cross — February 2021 Timeline Learn more Following a process of consultation with the BC Law and University communities, a Prospectus was published in October, starting a process which has now completed. Search Committee Learn more A ten-member search committee has been formed. Led by Provost and Dean of Faculties David Quigley, the committee includes five Law School faculty and four members of Boston College’s senior leadership team. Search Partner & Prospectus Learn more Boston College Law School engaged Storbeck Search to lead the search process. Further Questions Thank you for your interest in the Boston College Law Dean’s search. If you have further questions, please direct them to the Office of the Provost at provofc@bc.edu. BC Law Dean’s Search: Timeline Search Committee announced: August 2021 Storbeck Search named as search partner: September 2021 Community listening sessions in preparation for developing and publishing position prospectus: Thursday, 9/23/21: Alumni Leadership Monday, 9/27/21: Staff Monday, 9/27/21: Faculty I Tuesday, 9/28/21: Faculty II Tuesday, 9/28/21: Current students I Wednesday, 9/29/21: Dean’s Advisory Board Wednesday, 9/29/21: Alumni Thursday, 9/30/21: Dean's Leadership Team Thursday, 9/30/21: Current students II Prospectus publication: October 2021 Candidate identification: Late Fall 2021 First round interviews: Early 2022 Finalist interviews and site visits: Late Winter 2022 Search Completed: May 2022 BC Law School Dean Search Committee David Quigley (Chair) University Provost and Dean of Faculties Sharon Beckman Law School Associate Clinical Professor and Director of the BC Innocence Program Mary Sarah Bilder Founders Professor of Law Jack T. Butler, S.J. Haub Vice President for University Mission and Ministry Mara Hermano Vice President for Institutional Research and Planning Gregory A. Kalscheur, S.J. Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Dean and Professor of Law and Political Science M. Cathleen Kaveny Darald and Juliet Libby Professor of Law and Theology Shu-Yi Oei Professor of Law Vlad Perju Professor of Law Akua Sarr Vice Provost for Undergraduate Academic Affairs Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3260 provostoffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College