Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites Outreach Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Education Programs Research Areas Patient Care Map of Initiatives Faculty Forum Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Education Programs Research Areas Patient Care Map of Initiatives Faculty Forum Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift As today's health challenges grow increasingly global, we are providing health outreach initiatives in education, research and patient care that extend across the globe. At KU Medical Center, we build partnerships and work to improve health beyond our state's borders. The university is a proud member of the Consortium of Universities for Global Health, an organization focused on improving the well-being of people and the planet. We invite you to explore the medical center's active efforts and opportunities to get involved. Education Programs Global health education opportunities include experiences abroad and activities and events on campus. Research Areas KU Medical Center researchers tackle a wide range of health issues that affect foreign-born populations in our home state, as well as citizens around the globe. Patient Care KU Medical Center is committed to improving the health of citizens worldwide through international service trips and care outcomes for immigrants and refugees locally. Map of Initiatives Learn about KU Medical Center's active efforts around the world Faculty Forum KU Medical Center faculty interested in global health collaboration. 200+ KU Medical Center alumni live and work in countries around the world. Faculty from the schools of Health Professions, Medicine and Nursing lead international research and teaching efforts. From Kansas to Guatemala, Uganda, India and elsewhere, our students, faculty and staff work to improve health outcomes. History of Global Health at KU Medical Center World War I 1915 Assistant Professor of Surgery Walter Stanborough Sutton, M.D., takes a brief leave of absence from the university to serve at the American Ambulance Hospital outside of Paris, France, just 40 miles from the front lines of World War I. There only four months, he develops fluoroscopic techniques to localize shrapnel within soldiers' bodies and then removes them with instruments of his own design. He later documents these techniques in "Binnie's Manual of Operative Surgery." 1918 In July, a team of Kansas City doctors and nurses arrive in Limoges, France, to set up Base Hospital #28 during World War I. The 2,500-bed hospital is led by doctors associated with KU School of Medicine, who serve nearly 10,000 patients. World War II 1942-1945 During World War II, the 77th Evacuation Hospital, formed in 1942 at KU Medical Center, sees action in North Africa, Sicily and Europe. They maintain 750 beds, usually under canvas, while treating thousands of soldiers. 1960s 1968 Mani M. Mani, M.D., first arrives from India and completes his residency at KU. He returns in 1974 as the Medical Director of the Gene and Barbara Burnett Burn Center. His team establishes the protocol for contemporary burn care to include all relevant specialties for optimum treatment. The burn protocol soon becomes a standard of care in many parts of the United States and abroad, including Malaysia, Australia and Kyrgyzstan and India. He also plays a pivotal role in American Burn Association's burn care education efforts around the world. 1980s 1986 An interchange between Kansas and Paraguayan family physician educations begins after a chance meeting between Ed Donatelle, M.D., chair for the KU Department of Family and Community Medicine (DFCM) in Wichita and Wes Schmidt, M.D., a practicing physician in Paraguay with family roots in Kansas as well as the chair of the Health Committee of the Comité Paraguay/Kansas (which is part of the state's long-term partnership with Paraguay). Several visits occur between 1987-1994. 1990s 1990s The Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery supports medical work overseas starting in Nepal and Kyrgyzstan, and later Mexico, the Philippines, Africa and Guatemala. In 2004, the department helps create a six-day mission to Antigua, Guatemala, which becomes an annual tradition. 1993 The University of Kansas Medical Center enters a partnership agreement with Otto von Guericke University Magdeburg in Magdeburg, Germany. Renewed annually, the agreement is one of the school's longest-running School of Medicine student exchange partnerships. 1999 The Kansas-Paraguay Family Medicine Faculty Exchange is rejuvenated when KU's Rick Kellerman, M.D., DFCM chair, visits Paraguay to further encourage family medicine development in the country. Kellerman also helps develop and finalize continuing medical education opportunities for rural Paraguayan physicians. The partnership helps Paraguayan residency programs increase from one to seven, and graduating residents increase from six to 120 per year. KU School of Medicine students begin international elective rotations to Paraguay in 2002. 2000s 2002 Several first- and second-year medical students form the KU Medical Center International Outreach organization (KUMCIO). In 2012, they partner with a clinic built by Heart to Heart International and Rotary Club International in Patanatic, Guatemala. 2004 The Robinson International Studies Award is created to honor the late David W. Robinson, M.D., as well as Mani M. Mani, M.D. Interested students complete an International Education Experience at the Christian Medical College in Vellore, India. 2010s 2010 Three students from the KU Nurse Anesthesia Education program join forces with the Kansas City-based Medical Mission Foundation to provide medical services in impoverished areas of Guatemala. This becomes an annual tradition, with more faculty and students taking part in these eight-day mission trips. Resource Library Recommended Books, Articles and Documentaries JAMA Article: Duffle Bag Medicine E-Book: Global Health and the Future Role of United States (PDF) E-Book: Investing in Global Health System-Sustaining Gains Transforming Lives(PDF) Half the Sky The Coming Plague Mountains Beyond Mountains Biohazard End of Poverty Tools and Trainings Global Health Competencies Toolkit from CUGH Resources from PIH CDC Epidemic Intelligence Service Commissioned Corps of the U.S. Public Health Service American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene Diploma Course American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene Certificate Programs Institute for International Medicine Courses Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.