Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Future Alumni Home Alumni Welcome Students Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Alumni Ambassadors Close Menu Home Welcome Students Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Student alumni ambassadors are a group of ten students hired to serve as the link between the UW Alumni Association and current UW students. They engage with the wide range of people who make up our Husky community, from alumni and university officials to prospective and fellow students. Meet the 2021–2022 student alumni ambassadors Mia Brittingham Hometown: Simi Valley, CA Class: Sophomore Major: Political Science What do you love most about the University of Washington? I love the atmosphere at the University of Washington. Whether it is a dawg Saturday, studying in Suzzallo, or just walking through campus, the energy inspires me and lifts my spirits. Why is it important for students to get connected to the UWAA? UWAA gives students opportunities to network in a low risk environment. This is one of the few times in your life where you will have access to so many alumni who truly want to help in whatever way they can to make a difference for you. Fun fact: I broke my collarbone when I was little and now my right arm is longer than my left arm. Dream job: Lawyer In my free time, I like to: Explore different restaurants with my friends. Isha Jodh Hometown: Sammamish, WA Class: Junior Major: Computer science What do you love most about the UW: Definitely the opportunities and the people that are here! In my first two years here I’ve already been able to explore and try so many cool opportunities, such as different clubs, being a TA, part time jobs, and social communities. And, I’ve met so many students across various majors and departments (who come from around the world) who are all working for a better future. Why is it important for students to get connected to UWAA: The UWAA has so many cool programs for current students to get more connected to our school and our alumni community, while also having fun and learning valuable advice. Also, you can get connected and build your network for post-graduation. Fun fact: I flew a helicopter around the Seattle area! Dream job: Founding a company or nonprofit in the Tech + Social Good space In my free time I like to: travel, hike, bake, paint, watch sunsets and find good food places Anya Kasturi Hometown: San Jose, CA Class: Sophomore Major: Neuroscience (intended) with a possible minor in Business What do you love most about the University of Washington? I love the student life at the UW! It is amazing to see so many people who have different pathways and opinions on campus. I also love that there is always a place for someone at the university! Fun Fact: I have the biggest crush on Jason Momoa and found out only a year ago that we have the EXACT same birthday! 🙂 Dream Job: Helping people! I really want to pursue a career in medicine. In my free time I like to: I love hiking and visiting National Parks. An ideal day would be to visit new National Parks and hike all day long. The air in the hiking trails is always so crisp and fresh. Madeleine Kopf-Patterson Hometown: Seattle, WA Class: Senior Major: Political Science and Environmental Science & Terrestrial Resource Management What do you love most about the University of Washington? I love the enormous number of opportunities available to students and the incredible mixture of cultures I have had the chance to learn about from all of the other students. Why is it important for students to get connected to the UWAA? The association can forge connections between students and alumni. Students get a unique understanding of their options for the future and get to see the range of applications for degrees from the UW. Many of the UWAA programs allow students to explore the opportunities that are available to them thanks to being able to connect with alumni. Fun fact: My family and I submitted Mt. Adams the summer of 2018. Dream job: I’m not sure yet, but I would love to do something to bridge the gap between environmental science and the environmental policies being made. In my free time I like to: I love to do pretty much anything outside. In particular, I love skiing (mostly cross-country). I also love to hang out with my clubs around campus. Rachna Kumar Hometown: Sammamish, WA Class: Junior Major: Finance and Information Systems What do you love most about the University of Washington? I love how there really is something for everyone here. A huge school of over 45,000 people might feel overwhelming at first, but the UW offers so many niche programs and opportunities that really allow every single student to embrace their passions and find a community. And of course, the campus being absolutely beautiful definitely doesn’t hurt either. Why is it important for students to get connected to the UWAA? As boundless students at the UW, it can sometimes feel intimidating to have so many potential career paths to choose from. The programs offered by the UWAA allow students to explore their career interests in a real-world environment and learn from the insider perspectives of Husky alumni who were once in our shoes. Getting connected with the UWAA not only allows us to further our professional careers through networking, but also allows us to enrich our college experience and create meaningful connections that last a lifetime. Fun fact: I’ve met Demi Lovato twice! Dream job: I would love to work in the intersection of business and social impact. In my free time I like to: Explore the outdoors, hang out with friends and rewatch “New Girl” for the millionth time. Rakshith Mullukatte Hometown: Olympia, Washington Class: Senior Major: Political Science/ Law, Society and Justice What do you love most about the University of Washington? I love the numerous opportunities available to students within the University of Washington and to learn more about the unique groups of students and faculty members. I also love the beautiful campus, football and basketball season. Why is it important for students to get connected to the UWAA? The UWAA creates the bridge between students at the University of Washington and alumni. As students connect to the UWAA, they will not only expand on their Husky experiences, but they will have a chance to grow professionally and personally in their career. Fun fact: I love to travel around the world and have been to about 20 countries. Dream job: Anesthesiology Medical Attorney In my free time I like to: I love to play basketball and football. I love the outdoors such as camping, hiking and biking. I am also a big movie lover. Amrit Singh Hometown: Grangeville, ID Class: Senior Major: Business Administration (Finance & Entrepreneurship) What do you love most about the University of Washington? The diverse and dynamic community of students, faculty, and alumni! From engaging student organizations to immersive learning experiences, the UW has granted me countless opportunities to broaden my horizons all while creating meaningful and lasting relationships. These experiences and more are what truly make the UW feel like home. Why is it important for students to get connected to the UWAA? The UWAA provides students with countless opportunities to maximize their Husky Experience! From programs like Huskies@Work to cross-campus events, the UWAA allows students to connect and engage with our amazing alumni community. These connections can not only help students navigate their academic/professional interests but can also serve as lifelong mentors. Fun fact: I am a huge Star Wars fan! Dream job: Business Owner In my free time I like to: Play and watch sports (football, basketball, baseball, Formula 1), cook (Indian Cuisine), and learn about the geography of the world (physical, cultural, political). Noah Spitz Hometown: Oakland, CA Class: Senior Major: Economics/Political Science What do you love most about the University of Washington? I love the atmosphere and student culture. The opportunities to get involved on campus are endless, and the UW student body is incredibly driven and passionate. This creates an environment that has pushed me to learn and grow in ways I never could have imagined. Why is it important for students to get connected to the UWAA? I believe it is important for current students to understand that they don’t stop being a Husky when their time on campus comes to an end. The UW has over 400,000 alumni, and this group has a wealth of professional knowledge and experience to share. By participating in our programs and tapping into this massive network, students can receive valuable advice and guidance and make connections that will last them a lifetime. Fun fact: I have been to 7 different countries and I love to travel. Dream job: One that is fulfilling, allows me to support myself, and benefits my community. In my free time, I like to: Watch sports! I am an avid football and basketball fan. On Saturdays, there’s a 100% chance that you can find me at Husky stadium. Go dawgs! Nain Vaswani Hometown: Pune, India Class: Graduate Major: Business Administration What do you love most about the University of Washington? I love how people at UW are so tight knit and helpful. There’s so much to learn from different people and the school really takes initiative to help students collaborate seamlessly. Why is it important for students to get connected to the UWAA? The UWAA gives you an opportunity to connect with people beyond your school and specific major. By leveraging these connections, students can take their career to a different trajectory and enhance their careers moving forward. Fun fact: I love rollercoasters and have been on the fastest rollercoaster in the world with 149 miles per hour speed. Dream job: Ted Talks Speaker In my free time I like to: Explore Henry Vickers Hometown: Kenmore, WA Class: Senior Major: Economics What do you love most about the University of Washington? A major part of what makes the UW great in my eyes is the community at large. Every day on campus I see myself surrounded by driven students, staff and alumni. To be able to develop my character among these people is a truly great opportunity. Why is it important for students to get connected to the UWAA? Students that engage with the UWAA now have the opportunity to create community that they will be a part of beyond their time as a student. This will not only benefit themselves but also new and longtime members of the Husky family. Fun fact: A favorite quote of mine, for it’s simplicity and guidance in life: “Don’t cry because it’s over, smile because it happened.” – Dr. Seuss Dream job: One that puts food on the table and happiness in many hearts. In my free time I like to: Go on adventures! Downtown? Mt. Rainier? Really anywhere? Sounds great! We’re Hiring Applications for 2022-2023 ambassadors are now open! Apply by April 30, 2022. Student alumni ambassadors engage with alumni, prospective students, university officials and, most importantly, fellow students. You’ll be part of promoting exciting programs designed to connect students with alumni, help students as they begin to think about their careers and celebrate what it means to be a Husky. This position is paid. Ambassadors are being hired in May to begin training and working in fall 2022. Ambassador responsibilities Responsibilities: Encourage today’s students to see themselves as future alumni and valuable lifelong members of the UW community Promote UW Alumni Association student programs, such as Huskies@Work, Dinner w/ the Pack & Husky Landing, at campus events and via social media Host alumni, prospective students, university officials and students at UWAA and Seattle-area events Ensure the success of UWAA events through participating in day-of event coordination Provide insight and feedback on student interests and trends Learning Outcomes: Develop campus/community relation skills essential to fostering positive relationships with UW/UWAA community constituents (students, alumni, faculty, staff, parents & friends) Improve marketing & promotion techniques as part of the goal to connect the UW student population with UWAA’s student programs/membership Learn effective event management practices (set-up/tear-down, greeting/hosting, tabling) Gain an in-depth understanding of the University of Washington Alumni Association from both a student and alumni perspective Meet, interact, and network with the University of Washington Alumni community of over 500,000 Considerations: Will be expected to work at least 20 hours/quarter Must intend to work three consecutive quarters during the first year of employment Must be able to attend ambassador training and monthly meetings Expected to represent the UWAA, its mission, values, and programs in a positive manner A valid Washington State driver’s license may be required to operate the UWAA van Ability to lift 20 pounds regularly/up to 40 pounds occasionally for event setup/tear down Student Alumni Ambassador Application Fill out my online form. <a href="https://uwalum.wufoo.com/forms/wj3it0105kp7rp/def/entsource=wordpress" rel="nofollow">Fill out my Wufoo form!</a> Home Welcome Students Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA