Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index International Affairs Menu Search TTU International Affairs STEM OPT Extension Applying for STEM OPT When to apply for STEM OPT: To be eligible for STEM OPT, you must currently be on OPT. If you are still in your program, you must first apply for OPT and then you will later be eligible for STEM OPT What is Optional Practical Training (OPT)? Optional Practical Training (OPT) is used by students to gain work experience in their field of study after completing a degree program. STEM OPT is an extension. What is STEM Optional Practical Training (STEM OPT)? STEM OPT is OPT for students studying in majors related to Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM). It is an extension of the first 12 months of OPT that is only available for STEM students. How long can I do OPT and STEM OPT? Student Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) regulations allow up to 12 months of OPT at each degree level for a student in F-1 status. Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) students are eligible for an extension of 24 months of OPT (a total of 36 months). When can I apply for STEM OPT and How? You must first apply for OPT and be approved before you can apply for STEM OPT. An application for STEM OPT can be filed up to 90 days prior to the completion of a student's first 12 months of OPT but no later than the end date listed on the initial OPT card (the Employment Authorization Document). After the OPT/EAD card end date, students are no longer eligible to apply for the STEM OPT extension. How long does the STEM OPT application process take? It may take the government agency (United States Citizenship and Immigration Services or USCIS) a long time to process a STEM OPT application. Your International Student Counselor may be able to provide a current estimate of processing times. However, processing times are unpredictable so it is always best to apply early! The ISSS office is not responsible for the length of time required to process your STEM OPT application. Do not wait until near the end of your current OPT/EAD card expiration date! Again, you are not eligible to apply for STEM OPT after the end of your initial 12 months of OPT. Step 1: Learn about STEM OPT (watch the STEM Optional Practical Training video by clicking on the button below in black and white) Watch the Presentation! Step 2: Apply for STEM OPT Once you have watched this STEM OPT Presentation linked above and are ready to begin applying for the STEM OPT extension. You will need to submit the following documents to your counselor: The STEM OPT Acknowledgment form (signed by you) The Form I-983 Training Plan. (Please read the Instructions for Completing the Form) for STEM OPT Students (filled out by you and your E-Verify employer). The employer must be a registered E-Verify employer and must have an E-Verify number for you to work for them on STEM OPT. In addition, the employment opportunity must be full-time (at least 21 hours per week). You will file the I-765 form online. You will first need to create a USCIS online account and will need to work closely with your international student counselor. Instructions for how to complete this online form are posted on YouTube (Link for how to complete the online form I-765 for STEM OPT) Watch the STEM OPT I-765 Online Application Instructions Video! A new I-20 with the OPT STEM extension. Once we receive those documents we will send you dates along with instructions and a checklist of documents you need to send to USCIS. Please also review the STEM OPT helpful links and info handout. Step 3: Wait for your STEM OPT EAD Card NOTE: USCIS will send your EAD card to the address given on your online I-765 form. It is critically important then that you keep USCIS informed of any address changes. You must do so on the USCIS website. After your STEM OPT is Approved: Reporting Changes: Did you move? Change employer? Start a new job? Please refer to our OPT Reporting page to report these changes to your ISSS counselor while you are on STEM OPT. Remember, the regulations require that you report such changes within 10 days! For a list of your reporting requirements while on STEM OPT please review the STEM OPT reporting information sheet on the Study in the States website Information for Employers Employers play a key role in maintaining and strengthening the integrity of the STEM OPT extension program. Although compliance with the program's various reporting requirements predominately apply to students and their universities, there are instances where STEM OPT employers must assist in tracking the STEM OPT students and their practical training progress. Employers must be registered in E-Verify in order to employ international students on STEM OPT. In addition, the employment opportunity must be full-time (at least 21 hours per week). See employers' requirements for more information on employer reporting requirements. DHS requires that the STEM OPT student and employer work together to complete the form I-983. Properly completing this form will successfully document the relationship between the STEM OPT opportunity, the academic degree received and the learning objectives of the F-1 student. See employers' I-983 form for more information on filling out the form I-983. Site visits ensure that STEM OPT students receive structured and guided work-based learning experiences and reduce the potential for abuses of the STEM OPT extension. During the site visit, DHS's intent is to confirm that information reported on the student's form I-983 concerning the training opportunity is accurate, while not placing an unnecessary burden on employers. See employer site visits for more information on site visits. Information for TTU employers Form I-983 Training Plan Section 3: TTU Employer ID Number (EIN): 75-6002622 Number of Full-Time Employees in U.S.: 4,993 NAICS code: 611310 Start Date of Employment: Enter date the employee will begin STEM OPT training with the department. TTU HR Information Page Regarding E-Verify: https://www.depts.ttu.edu/hr/E-Verify/ E-Verify Number for TTU: 280703 If you have a question, that is not listed here. See our OPT Frequently Asked Questions. If that does not answer your question, email your international student counselor. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents International Affairs Like International Affairs on FacebookLike International Affairs on Facebook Follow International Affairs on twitterFollow International Affairs on twitter Subscribe to International Affairs on YouTubeSubscribe to International Affairs on YouTube Follow International Affairs on FlickrFollow International Affairs on Flickr Follow International Affairs on InstagramFollow International Affairs on Instagram Address 601 Indiana Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409-5004 Phone 806.742.3667 Email oia.reception@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 30, 2022 1:45 PM International Affairs International Students International Affairs International Students Back Admitted international students International Affairs International Students Admitted international students Back Visa Process Housing Health Insurance Pre-Arrival Guide Post-Arrival Checklist Immigration Information International Affairs International Students Immigration Information Back Immigration and Scam Alerts Make an Appointment F1 - Health Insurance F1 - Travel F1 - Employment Your F-1 Student Counselor Other F-1 Services and Processes OPT STEM OPT CPT J1 - Health Insurance J1 - Travel J1 - Employment J1 - Dependents International Student Life International Affairs International Students International Student Life Back Our Services to Incoming Students International Orientation Life in Lubbock Lubbock housing options Events hosted by ISL Get Involved Advice from current students Financial Aid for International Students Scams Against International Student FAQ's Study Abroad International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Back J-1 Exchange Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni J-1 Exchange Visitors Back J-1 Program Information Hosting Department Information International Scholar Resources Make an Appointment/ISSS International Partnerships/Export Control Insurance Requirements Travel Dependents Help with Taxes International Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Alumni Back International Alumni Networks Give to Office of International Affairs Update Contact Information Contact Office of International Affairs Employing International Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Employing International Visitors Back H-1B Work Visa Information Permanent Residency Information Labor Certification for Non-Teaching Faculty Hosting Department Information Visitor Visas Paying International Visitors Fullbright Scholars & Students Make an Appointment International Scholar Resources J-1 Student Intern Information International Partnerships/Exports Help with Taxes Community Outreach & Events International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Back Community Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Community Outreach Back Art Exhibits Signature Events K-12 Global Education Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events K-12 Global Education Outreach Back Mission Program Options Program Reservations K-12 Geo FAQ's Pre/Post Activities Give to K-12 ICC Facility Rental International Affairs Community Outreach & Events ICC Facility Rental Back Room Rental Information ICC Rules & Regulations Directions Passport Office International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Passport Office Back Passport Office Information Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Back Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Faculty/Staff Resources Back Center for Global Communication International Research and Development International Center for Arid and Semi-Arid Land Studies International Partnerships and Export Control Global Roundup Fulbright International Travel Information International Seed Funding Hosting International Students Scholarships International Affairs Scholarships Back First Year & Transfer Students Continuing Students Study Abroad Students National and International Scholarships & Fellowships About Office International Affairs About Office Back The Office of International Affairs International Affairs About Office The Office of International Affairs Back About Us Vice Provost OIA Services and Contact Information Directory Strategic Plan Organizational Chart OIA Year in Review Visitors Guide Visitors Guide - Español News and Events International Affairs About Office News and Events Back International Digest OIA News OIA Events Recent Newsletter Newsletter Archive Media Gallery International Affairs About Office Media Gallery Back Photos Videos Give to OIA International Affairs About Office Give to OIA Back Appeal from the Vice Provost International Affairs Fund for Excellence International Affairs Student Scholarship OIA Committees International Affairs About Office OIA Committees Back Scholarships International Affairs Council Fulbright Information Special Initiatives International Affairs About Office Special Initiatives Back Global Vision Awards Leadership, Management and Governance Program Texas Tech Costa Rica Campus Texas Tech Global Bridge program Mandela Washington Fellowship Ambassadors Forum Contact Us Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index