Give to TC Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Giving to Teachers College GIVE NOW Secondary Navigation Main Annual Giving Annual Giving Learn more about Annual Giving Give to TC Giving Tuesday Make an Immediate Impact Annual giving provides crucial operating support to TC. Every gift, no matter the amount, goes directly in support of teaching and learning at Teachers College. Contact the TC Fund: Susan Scherman, Senior Director, Omnichannel Marketing (e) scherman@tc.columbia.edu (p) 212 678-8176 Planned Giving Planned Giving Charitable Bequests Gifts of Retirement Plan Assets Gifts that Provide Income Charitable Trusts Gifts of Life Insurance Grace Dodge Society Make an Legacy Gift A planned gift can help you maximize your charitable donations to TC by employing strategies and choosing gift options tailored to your particular needs and goals. Contact us about Planned Giving: (e) giftplan@tc.columbia.edu (p) 212 678-3231 Ways to Give Ways to Give International Giving Giving From Hong Kong Giving From the UK Ways to Give There are many ways to give to Teachers College. Questions about ways to give? Contact us: Susan Scherman, Senior Director, Omnichannel Marketing (e) scherman@tc.columbia.edu (p) 212 678-8176 Campaign Alumni GIVE NOW TC Giving Annual Giving Give to TC Thank you for choosing to make a gift to Teachers College. Our secure form allows you to make a gift of any size to Teachers College using a major credit card. If you have questions, or have difficulty using this form please contact fund@tc.columbia.edu or call Colleen Tabor at 212-678-4067. Click here to see if your employer offers matching gifts. Note: If you are making a gift from outside the United States, please use this form instead. *Beginning January 1, 2022, a Support Services Cost will be applied to all gifts designated to a unit at the College, regardless of gift amount (this cost is already applied to unit-designated corporation and foundation gifts). This cost does not apply to gifts designated for Scholarship, Financial Aid Endowments, Capital Projects, or Unrestricted purposes. For more information on this vital resource, please visit our FAQs. Contact Us Institutional Advancement Address: 193 Grace Dodge Hall Box: 306 * Phone: (212) 678-3231 * Email: fund@tc.columbia.edu Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links