Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > January 5, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff January 5, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear Colleagues, Today, January 5th, is another day of vaccinations. As a reminder, the focus still remains on vaccinating individuals delivering direct patient care and all care team members and staff supporting them in person. Please rest assured that we will keep everyone updated as more groups are added. Please wait for that announcement. Please see important information below about locations of first and second doses. As of yesterday, nearly 27,000 staff at NewYork-Presbyterian, Weill Cornell, and Columbia have been vaccinated. This includes nearly 9,500 individuals on the Columbia Campus who are working in patient care areas, with over 4,600 of them Columbia employees and students. The CDC reports that there have been over 4.5 million people who have received their first dose of the vaccine. Starting today and going forward, first dose vaccinations at the NYP/CUIMC campus will be given ONLY in the Alumni Auditorium on the 1st Floor of the William Black Building located at 650 West 168th Street (corner of 168th and Fort Washington Avenue) during the hours of 6 AM to 9 PM Monday through Friday. A few reminders for those receiving or about to receive their second dose vaccinations: Clarification about location of your second vaccination: If you are scheduled to receive your second dose this week, it will be administered at the same location where you received your first dose. Please note that ICU and ED staff who received their first dose at satellite locations should come back for the second dose at the central location (i.e. Myrna Daniels or MSCHONY) as directed by your department. Please come for your second dose at the scheduled time as it will be critical in helping NYP make staffing and vaccine supply decisions based on those appointments. Second dose reminders will be sent via Connect. If you have not yet signed up for Connect, please do so, at: https://www.myconnectnyc.org/mychart/accesscheck.asp. For questions about where/when to go on each campus, please go to the Employee Information section on the VaccineTogetherNY.org site. This link also contains information about how to sign up for Connect accounts. While CUIMC employees should be vaccinated through the vaccination program with NYP, we know that many of you have family members and friends who are also frontline workers and may be wondering how they can be vaccinated. As of this week, eligible New Yorkers can get the COVID-19 vaccine at sites located throughout the city. Please see this website for further details for eligible groups, locations and scheduling: https://www1.nyc.gov/site/doh/covid/covid-19-vaccine-locations.page Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Even though you can find the latest FAQ documents on the CUIMC COVID Vaccine Information page we are also going to highlight two key Questions of the Day to keep you informed. I currently have COVID-19. Should I still get the vaccine now? How long should I wait after I recover to get it? Data from clinical trials show that the mRNA COVID-19 vaccines are SAFE in people who had past COVID-19 infection. Vaccination should be offered to people regardless of history of prior symptomatic or asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) infection. Testing for the SARS-CoV-2 virus or for antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 to decide when to get vaccinated is NOT recommended. CDC recommends that people who currently have COVID-19 infection wait to be vaccinated UNTIL they meet criteria to discontinue isolation. Generally, isolation can be discontinued when 1) at least 10 days have passed since the onset of symptoms or a positive test if a person has been asymptomatic; 2) at least 24 hours have passed being afebrile without antipyretics; and 3) symptoms are markedly improved. Health care personnel (HCP) with COVID-19 must be cleared to return to work by Workforce Health and Safety. According to CDC guidelines, HCP who had COVID-19 infection within the past 90 days can choose to delay vaccination until near the end of the 90-day period in order to allow other HCP to be vaccinated first, if there is limited vaccine supply. This is because current evidence suggests that people are less likely to get reinfected with COVID-19 in the 90 days after their initial infection. However, this is a strategy to address limited vaccine supply and NOT for safety concerns, since current data from clinical trials have shown that the mRNA COVID-19 vaccines are safe in people who had past COVID-19. NYP has enough vaccine supply to vaccinate people who recently had COVID-19 and strongly encourages those with recent COVID-19 to be vaccinated. I just tested positive for COVID-19 and am scheduled to receive the second dose of the vaccine this week. Is it OK to receive the second dose later? CDC recommends that people with current SARS-CoV-2 infection should defer COVID-19 vaccination until they meet criteria to discontinue isolation. Generally, isolation can be discontinued when 1) at least 10 days have passed since the onset of symptoms or a positive test if a person has been asymptomatic; 2) at least 24 hours have passed being afebrile without antipyretics; and 3) symptoms are markedly improved. Health care personnel with COVID-19 must be cleared to return to work by Workforce Health and Safety. Note that data from clinical trials of both vaccines demonstrated that the mRNA COVID-19 vaccines are safe in people who had past COVID-19. If a person is unable to receive their second dose within the recommended interval, the second dose should be given as close as possible to the recommended interval which is 21 days for the Pfizer vaccine and 28 days for the Moderna vaccine. There is no maximal interval between the first and second dose for either vaccine. Thank you! Magda Sobieszczyk, MD, MPH Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell, MD, MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top