Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Salina About From the Dean Faculty & Staff Salina Facilities Our Community Contact Information Make a Gift Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Salina Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Salina Academics Academics Premedical Programs MD Program Admission & Aid Curriculum Lukert Society Student and Faculty Awards Standardized Patient Program Student Affairs Student Affairs Policies and Procedures Counseling and Support Services Health Care for Students About School of Medicine Salina About About From the Dean Faculty & Staff Salina Facilities Our Community Contact Information Make a Gift About Make a Gift Your gift supports our innovative medical education program aimed at students with a strong desire to practice in rural areas. We are grateful for your support. Areas of greatest need When you give, you can choose to designate your funds toward the most pressing needs on our campus, to support our students or to other areas of your choice. Donations of all sizes make a difference our students' lives and help us provide support for our Salina campus. Give Now About KU Endowment The University of Kansas Medical Center partners with KU Endowment for philanthropic support. If you have more questions about ways you can support our department, please visit KU Endowment’s contact page. If you would like more information on the various ways you can support the University of Kansas or how your philanthropy should be designated in your legal documents, please visit KU Endowment’s Areas of Support page. KU School of Medicine-Salina KU School of Medicine-Salina Health Education Center 138 N. Santa Fe Salina, KS 67401 Phone: 785-822-0400 KU School of Medicine-Salina Facebook page Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.