Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Admissions Student Services Student Life Admissions Student Services Student Life Graduate Admissions Columbia Engineering offers you the opportunity to become a leader in your profession, learning from professors shaping the world of tomorrow. Join us and explore the academic options available to students looking to pursue a Master of Science, Doctoral, or Certificate program. Learn More Graduate Student Services Our office assists graduate students in navigating their academic trajectories from registration to graduation. Learn more about our academic policies and procedures for Master of Science and Doctoral programs. Learn More Graduate Student Life From their first day on campus to the Class Day and Graduation celebrations, Graduate students participate in breakthrough research, social events encouraging interpersonal relationships with peers and alumni, educational opportunities to learn from esteemed faculty, and professional development initiatives to prepare students for careers after graduation. Learn More The Office of Graduate Student Affairs serves prospective, admitted and current graduate students at Columbia Engineering. From application to graduation, and everything in between, we provide resources, advisement, and support for the graduate engineering student body. "At Columbia Engineering, we offer a wide range of top ranked Master's and PhD programs that attract a diverse group of talented students from all over the United States and all around the world, and that are designed to prepare you to become a leader and an innovator in your field. Our academic programs build on the rigor of our curriculum, world-class discipline-based and interdisciplinary research, deep collaborations with sister schools at Columbia (e.g. Columbia Business School, the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences, the Columbia University Irving Medical Center, the School of International and Public Affairs, Columbia Law School, and the Pullitzer School of Journalism), and our strong partnerships with industry. These programs are enhanced by an effective Graduate Career Placement Center and a one in-a-kind Professional Development and Leadership program that includes career development workshops and professional development seminars, as well as a diverse set of networking events with alumni, faculty, and students. Our School’s ranking as the top engineering school in the Ivy League and our inspirational Columbia Engineering for Humanity vision are two of many indicators of our excellence and our responsibility to lead the engineering field globally." —Professor Soulaymane Kachani Senior Vice Dean, Columbia Engineering GSA Events GSA hosts social, academic, and recruitment events throughout the year. Take a look at the fun we have! Engineering Wellness Engineering Wellness provides resources and services in order to promote general wellness for students. Visit the website to learn more! News » Press Release 16 New Faculty Join Columbia Engineering Columbia Engineering welcomed a new cohort of faculty with combined strengths in foundational, interdisciplinary, and translational research that help address some of the greatest challenges of our time. More Jan 07 2021 | By Allison Elliott Prof. Christine Hendon Named a 2021 SPIE Fellow In recognition of her groundbreaking research on biomedical optical imaging tools to guide diagnostics and treatments, particularly for the heart, Professor More Jan 19 2021 | By Jesse Adams | PHOTO CREDIT: John Abbott Columbia Engineering and Amazon Launch Undergraduate Program to Increase Diversity and Inclusiveness in Tech Fields With the creation of the Columbia-Amazon Summer Undergraduate Research Experience (SURE) with a focus on undergraduate students from backgrounds historically More Jan 21 2021 | Group Photo Credit: Courtesy of NSBE | Lab Photo Credit: Timothy Lee Photographers Columbia Center of AI Technology Announces Faculty Research Awards and Two PhD Student Fellowships Amazon is providing $5 million in funding over five years to support research, education, and outreach programs. More Feb 01 2021 | Portrait Photo Credit: Courtesy of Noemie Perivier and Mia Chiquier Prof. Asaf Cidon Wins Army Research Office Young Investigator Award Electrical Engineering professor is creating systems that use different types of storage technologies to build faster and cost-effective computing More Jan 19 2021 | By Holly Evarts | Photo Credit: Courtesy of Asaf Cidon Columbia Space Initiative Selected to Send Payload to Space Station Student club one of five U.S. teams participating in NASA’s STEM on Station initiative. More Jan 12 2021 | By Jane Sims Press Release Robot Displays a Glimmer of Empathy to a Partner Robot Columbia engineers create a robot that learns to visually predict how its partner robot will behave, displaying a glimmer of empathy. This “Robot Theory of Mind More Jan 11 2021 | By Holly Evarts | Research Image and Video Credit: Creative Machines Lab/Columbia Engineering | Teaser Photo Credit: Shutterstock Press Release 2020 in Review: Highlights from an Unprecedented Year at Columbia Engineering Our faculty and students contributed breakthroughs and major advancements that will shape 2021 and beyond. Here’s just a snapshot of their many accomplishments. More Dec 21 2020 | Hero Image Credit: Anna Collecvecchio/Columbia College. Connect instagram MORE {{item.username}} | {{item.date}} Begin Your Application Explore the options available to students looking to pursue a Master of Science, Doctoral, or Certificate program at Columbia Engineering. Apply Now Request More Information Professional Development and Leadership The Professional Development and Leadership (PDL) program empowers and educates Columbia engineers to maximize performance and achieve their full potential to become engineering leaders of today and tomorrow. Visit PDL Contact Us Office of Graduate Student Affairs Graduate Admissions [email protected] | 212-854-4688 500 W. 120th Steet, #1220 New York, NY 10027 Graduate Student Affairs [email protected] | 212-854-6438 500 W. 120th Steet, #530 New York, NY 10027 Learn more about the Graduate Student Affairs team Diversity At the Graduate Student Affairs Office, we believe in fostering an academic community that is welcoming and inclusive for students of all backgrounds. Learn about our annual events and our student resources designed to promote a more inclusive and diverse student body. Learn More Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University sitemap