Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Home About People Diversity Research Academics Events CLPS Colloquium Series Cognition Seminar Developmental Brown Bag Speaker Series Ling Lang Lunch Perception Action Seminar Social Cognitive Science Seminar Speaker Series: "The Linguistic Expression of Racial and Ethnic Identity" Faculty Activities Visit Us Site Navigation Home About Internal Website People Regular Faculty Teaching Faculty Research Faculty Postdocs Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Administrative Staff Diversity Statement on anti-racism Related Research DIAP Committee Research Focus Areas Centers & Initiatives Academics Undergraduates Behavioral Decision Sciences Cognitive Science Cognitive Neuroscience Linguistics Psychology DUGs Honors Requirements Resources Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Aid Graduate Students CLPS Graduate Handbook Events CLPS Colloquium Series Cognition Seminar Developmental Brown Bag Speaker Series Ling Lang Lunch Perception Action Seminar Social Cognitive Science Seminar Speaker Series: "The Linguistic Expression of Racial and Ethnic Identity" Faculty Activities Authors Journal Editors Presidents International Awards Visit Us Social Cognitive Science Seminar The Social Brown Bag (SCSBB) is a Friday talk series featuring ongoing research related to social psychology. Some speakers are students and faculty members in CLPS department, others are guest speakers who are visiting from other departments, schools, or countries. Neither speakers nor audience have to identify themselves as social psychologists, and the atmosphere is always friendly and casual. SCSBB takes place in Metcalf Research Building, Room 305 (Dome room). Open to members of the Brown community. To learn of upcoming events, please refer to the live calendar to the right of this page, or subscribe to our event announcements email list. 2021-2022 Speakers Sept. 17 - 1st Year Students, Brown University: TBA Oct. 1 - Jae-Young Son, Brown University: Cognitive maps of social features enable flexible inference in social networks Oct. 15 - Emma Templeton, Dartmouth: A naturalistic approach to studying conversation Oct. 29 - David Melnikoff, Northeastern: How Goals Change Minds Nov. 12- Johanna Vollhardt, Clark University: How do People Make Sense of Collective Violence and Oppression against their Group? Conceptualizing Collective Victim Beliefs Feb. 4 - Drew Jacoby-Senghor, UC Berkeley: Majority Members Misperceive Even 'Win-Win' Diversity Policies as Unbeneficial to Them Feb. 18 - Julia Minson, Havard University: Conversational Receptiveness: Improving Engagement with Opposing Views Mar. 11 - Hema Preya Selvanathan, University of Queensland, Australia: The development and diversity of cumulative culture learning Mar. 18 - Cristine Legare, University of Texas at Austin: The development and diversity of cumulative culture learning April 22 - Rasha Abdel Rahman, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin: Face processing and social judgments in the context of emotional (mis)information: A neurocognitive perspective 2020-2021 Speakers Sept. 22 - Joel Martinez, Princeton University: Mapping and shaping cognitive representations of immigrants Oct. 2 - Danny Ullman, Brown University: Human-Robot Trust: A Multi-Dimensional Approach Oct. 16 - Sarah Gaither, Duke University: Multiple Identities = Multiple Sources of Threat & Belonging Oct. 30 - Noah Goodman, Stanford University: How we come to know Nov. 10- Liane Young, Boston College: Social context shapes social cognition Nov. 13 - Sa-kiera Hudson, Yale University: The connection between hierarchy preferences and (counter-) empathic responding Dec. 4 - Sylvia Perry, Northwestern University: The implications of recognizing and discussing racial bias Dec. 15 - Joey Heffner, Brown University: Reverse engineering emotions during social interactions Feb. 5 - Natalia Vélez, Harvard University: Cognitive foundations of collaboration Feb. 23 - Neil Lewis Jr, Cornell University: Looking Back to Move Forward: Long-term Effects of Segregation on Perception, Action, and Cognition March. 5, Kimberly Chiew, University of Denver: How Affect and Motivation Guide Adaptive Cognition March. 19, Felipe De Brigard, Duke University: Moral memories and the self April. 30, Cydney Dupree, Yale University: Crossing Status Divides: Stereotypes, Strategies, and Solutions 2018-2019 Speakers Oct. 12 - Mark Thornton, Princeton University Nov. 2 - David DeSteno, Northeastern University: Nov. 16 - Emily Bruneau, UPenn Nov. 30 - Jean-Francois Bonnefon, Toulouse School of Economics Dec. 7 - Boyoung Kim, Brown University To be rescheduled Mar. 8 - Mascha van't Wout, Brown University Mar. 15 - Ashley Jordan, Apr. 12 - Jon Freeman, Apr. 26 - Elinor Amit, Brown University May 3 - David Sobel, Brown University Past Speakers 2015-2016 David Sobel, Brown University: Coding Choices Affect Interpretations of Theory of Mind Measures (or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Unexpected Contents Task) Fiery Cushman, Harvard University: Habitual Action in Social Settings Boyoung Kim, Brown University: The Influence of Social Media Use on Moral Judgments of Microaggressions Xuan Zhao, Brown University: Spontaneous visual perspective taking: When do we see through others' eyes? Patrick Heck, Brown University: Prosociality and Egocentrism in the Volunteer’s Dilemma: Behavior, Perception, and Expectation/Outcome Effects Malte Jung, Cornell University: Robots and the Dynamics of Emotions in Teams Katherine McAuliffe, Boston College: Children’s Enforcement of Fairness Norms Nir Halevy, Stanford Graduate School of Business: The Calculus of Peacemaking Michael Schober, The New School for Social Research: Communication Technology Alters Pragmatic and Cognitive Processes Kiley Hamlin, University of British Columbia: The origins of human morality: Complex Socio-Moral Evaluation and Action in the First Two Years of Life Joanna Korman, Brown University: Mindreading Mechanisms in High-functioning Autism Mina Cikara, Harvard University: Their Pain, Our Pleasure 2014-2015 Andrew Monroe, Florida State University: Not so motivated after all? Taking a closer look at the process of blame Nadia Chernyak, Brown University & Harvard Graduate School of Education: Learning through doing: Children's learning about morality through choice Rose McDermott, Brown University: Revenge and Deterrence in International Relations Chris Baker, MIT Computational Cognitive Science Group: Bayesian Theory of Mind: Modeling Attribution of Beliefs, Desires, Percepts, and Emotions Jennifer Prewitt-Freilino, RISD: Conveying and Reproducing Gender Hierarchies through Language Nina Mazar, University of Toronto: Pain of Paying — A Metaphor Gone Literal: Evidence from Neurobiology and Behavioral Decision Making Joachim Krueger, Brown University: Let me help you help me: Trust between profit and prosociality Dan Kahan, J.D., Yale Law School: How does identity-protective cognition interact with effortful (System 2) information processing? And how about with professional judgment? Justin Martin, Harvard University: The function of punishment: Insights from underlying processes and contextual influences Events CLPS Colloquium Series Cognition Seminar Developmental Brown Bag Speaker Series Ling Lang Lunch Perception Action Seminar Social Cognitive Science Seminar Speaker Series: "The Linguistic Expression of Racial and Ethnic Identity" Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Brown University Box 1821 Metcalf Research Building 190 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2727 Fax: 401-863-2255 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top