Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Degrees Master of Health Administration Full-Time Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Full-Time Part-Time Executive Program Student Profiles Program Comparison Full-Time Part-Time Executive Program Student Profiles Program Comparison Full-Time The Full-Time Management MHA program (FTM) is a highly structured two-year program that provides students with an interdisciplinary education across management, organizational leadership, healthcare policy, and health systems. FTM graduates are prepared for entry and mid-level managerial roles in healthcare and obtain the foundation necessary to become senior executives. In addition to coursework, the FTM program has several unique components, including a required professional development curriculum that allows students to develop and hone their interpersonal skills, communication strategies, and career goals. In the Consulting Workshop course, students build skills in strategic thinking, teamwork, and effective communication while tackling a healthcare management challenge. Under the guidance of a faculty member, students collaborate as a team of consultants to develop a solution and present it to their client. Students also participate in a summer practicum designed to provide valuable fieldwork experience. FTM students typically take five classes per week. Electives are offered throughout students’ second year, and a culminating weekend HealthSquare Simulation experience occurs in the final semester. View the Curriculum Full-Time At a Glance More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Public Health Leaders Urge SCOTUS to Uphold Roe v. WadeMay 4 2022 Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the WestMay 4 2022 Period Poverty and the Pandemic: A Forgotten CrisisMay 4 2022 Sign up for Transmission Interested in changing the world? Apply Today Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers