Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES DRAMA Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 DRAMA 101 Introduction to the Theatre (5) VLPA The theatre as an art form with emphasis on the play in production. The role of the various theatre artists: actors, directors, designers, and playwrights. Required attendance at one or more performances. Lecture and discussion groups. For nonmajors. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 101 DRAMA 103 Theatre Appreciation (5) VLPA Covers the art of live theatrical performance. Discussion of how theatre is assembled, who the artists are, what they do, how theatre differs from other media, and how the various genres and styles of performance function, to create a deeper understanding of live performance. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 103 DRAMA 111 Backstage Pass: Technical Marvels in Popular Culture (5) VLPA Explores popular culture events such as concerts, award shows, sports events, and half-time shows. Offers a behind-the-scenes look at how the entertainment industry conceives, plans, and executes state-of-the-art technical challenges and solutions in making these large-scale events come to life. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 111 DRAMA 171 The Broadway Musical (5) VLPA, DIV Historical and cultural study of the Broadway Musical and how this uniquely American art form was predominantly created by outcasts from mainstream society; surveys its evolution including the mid-twentieth Century "Golden Age" and its current twenty-first Century resurgence. Explores how musicals have both reflected and shaped American culture - especially in regard to issues of race, gender, sexual orientation, social justice, and equality. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 171 DRAMA 180 Collaboration and Inclusion: Ways of Working Together (5) VLPA Geoff Korf Different styles of working with people and shaping an effective environment for communication and collaboration in pursuit of creation, problem solving and discovery. Introduces tools and methodologies used to promote participation from groups of any size. Experiential exercises, discussion, and collaborative projects. Develops a formal process of critiquing the work of peers. For students of all backgrounds. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 180 DRAMA 200 The Art of Story (5) VLPA Survey of narrative tradition and structure as they pertain to arts, culture, history, and society. Examines the origins and uses of narrative on a global scale, and presents the various forms of storytelling that inform our daily lives, in particular the dramatic arts. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 200 DRAMA 201 Plays and Styles (5) VLPA Introduces theatre practitioners to the principles of play construction, to the process of reading and conceiving plays for production, and to the basic vocabulary of artistic styles through which plays are produced. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 201 DRAMA 202 Creative Leadership: A Course in Courage (5) VLPA Valerie Curtis-Newton Courage as the ability to move through fear rather than becoming paralyzed by it. Examines sources of fear and obstacles that keep us from becoming our fullest, most human, most successful selves. Aimed at developing, demonstrating, and exercising both courage and leadership's other critical skills: connecting and communicating. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 202 DRAMA 203 Resilience and the Creative Process: Courage, Optimism, Creativity (5) VLPA Valerie Curtis-Newton Artistic practice as basis for building resilience. Resilience is an ability to overcome failure by learning from it and applying that lesson to follow-up efforts. Develops a process for self-expression: developing and implementing ideas. Utilizes texts, discussion, theatre exercises, assignments to help students identify obstacles to creativity and create strategies for overcoming those obstacles to become their fullest and most creative selves View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 203 DRAMA 210 Theatre Technical Practice (4) VLPA Intensive lecture-laboratory in basic theories, techniques, and equipment of the stage. Technical procedures. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 210 DRAMA 211 Theatre Technical Practice (4) VLPA Trout Intensive lecture-laboratory in basic theories, techniques, and equipment of the stage. Costumes. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 211 DRAMA 212 Theatre Technical Practice (4) VLPA Intensive lecture-laboratory in basic theories, techniques, and equipment of the stage. Stage lighting. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 212 DRAMA 213 Introduction to Sound Design for Theatre (4) VLPA Explores the how and why of sound and music for theatre. Includes different uses for audio in plays; choosing sounds and pieces of music; basic editing of music, environments, and effects; designing a cohesive world of sound. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 213 DRAMA 215 Visual Thinking in Theatrical Design (5) VLPA Skip Mercier From the perspective of theatrical design, develops visual literacy as a foundational skill relevant to all students and to a wide range of professional pathways from the sciences to the arts. Examines "seeing" and understanding how images are constructed to work with, and against, the way we see. Focuses on expanding creativity. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 215 DRAMA 221 Visual Narrative in Performance (5) VLPA Narrative critically structures many forms of visual design that go into creating performance events. Includes ritual and guided tours. Uses change over time as an essential lens for developing effective sets, lighting, costumes, and other design elements. Includes class exercises, weekly assignments, and a final project. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 221 DRAMA 222 Tools of Composition and Design for Performance and Events (5) VLPA Elements and tools used in theatrical design in scenery, costumes, lighting, sound, and projections. In-class and at-home projects tailored to manipulating those aspects for greater understanding of their impact in performance and events. How these elements shape our understanding of events placed on stage. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 222 DRAMA 250 Acting Skills for Everyday Life (4) VLPA View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 250 DRAMA 251 Acting (5) VLPA Explores theory and practice of fundamentals of American "method," based on principles of Stanislavsky and their American evolution. Development of basic acting skills through monologue work. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 251 DRAMA 252 Acting (5) VLPA Explores theory and practice of fundamentals of American "method," based on principles of Stanislavsky and their American evolution. Preparation of audition material and scene work within the context of entire play. Prerequisite: DRAMA 251. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 252 DRAMA 254 Intro to acting skills (1-5, max. 15) VLPA Z. JONES Introduces specific skills to the beginning actor and non-actor. No previous experience required. Topics vary Recommended: None needed. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 254 DRAMA 259 Performance Practicum (2-6, max. 12) VLPA Special work in various aspects of performance technique. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 259 DRAMA 261 Acting Tools for Professional Presentation (5) VLPA Catherine Madden Acting skills as tools for developing speaker and storyteller confidence in professional communication (e.g. scientists, teachers, health professionals). Prepares the individual to give a presentation, deliver a lecture, or communicate effectively with clients and patients. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 261 DRAMA 270 Survey of Great Theatre for Social Change (5) VLPA Surveys a sampling of the more influential plays ever written and performed, and how they advocated for social and political change. Considers plays that have directly engaged social and political problems, plays that began revolutions, and plays that quietly, persistently pushed the world toward a greater equity. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 270 DRAMA 285 Creativity as Research: Experimentation and Play (5) VLPA Examines creative research in the arts and the natural overlap with research in other fields. Individual and collaborative projects explore research through the lens of digital art, dance, science, and theater. Offered: jointly with DANCE 295/DXARTS 295; A. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 285 DRAMA 290 Theatre Technical Practices Laboratory (1-3, max. 3) VLPA Laboratory course involving specific production assignment, either in-shop or in-theatre or both. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 290 DRAMA 291 Theatre Technical Practices Laboratory (1-3, max. 3) VLPA Laboratory course involving specific production assignment, either in-shop or in-theatre or both. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 291 DRAMA 292 Theatre Technical Practices Laboratory (1-3, max. 3) VLPA Laboratory course involving specific production assignment, either in-shop or in-theatre or both. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 292 DRAMA 298 Theatre Production (1-2, max. 9) VLPA Laboratory course for students participating in School of Drama minor productions and projects. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 298 DRAMA 302 Critical Analysis of Theatre (5) VLPA Analyses of plays, based on leading critical traditions. Illustrates variety of approaches to a play, criteria for choosing best approach for a given play, and ways in which criticism aids in understanding dramatic effect, for both reader and practitioner. Prerequisite: DRAMA 201. Instructors: Mihaylova View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 302 DRAMA 303 The Structure of Dramatic Narrative (5) VLPA Examines the nature and structures of storytelling and the dramatic arts through seminal works on the topic and through examples of narrative from different parts of the world. Combines reading and lectures with student presentation skills. No previous performance experience necessary. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 303 DRAMA 316 Theatrical Makeup (3) VLPA Basic principles, with intensive practice in application of makeup for use on proscenium and arena stages. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 316 DRAMA 317 Introduction to Costume Construction (2-5, max. 10) VLPA Introduction to clothing construction techniques applicable to theatrical costumes, fashion design, and textile arts. Includes lectures, demonstrations, and practice lab. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 317 DRAMA 319 Projection Design in Performance (4) VLPA N. Kwame Braun Attributes, uses, and technology of projections in contemporary theater, dance, live music, sports events, public spectacle, and installation art. Students design and construct their own projections using basic computer programs to explore the three theatrical modes of projections: as lighting; as set; and as overt content. Recommended: introduction to theater or dance; visual communications; basic computer editing or design. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 319 DRAMA 351 Intermediate Acting-Scene Study (4) VLPA Actor-training methodologies of Stanislavsky, Meyerhold, Michael Chekov, and other physically-based approaches. Increases understanding of psychological motivation, concentration, focus of attention, clarity of physical expressiveness. Perform three scenes. Prerequisite: DRAMA 251. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 351 DRAMA 352 Intermediate Acting-Verse (4) VLPA Addresses character motivation within classical verse of Shakespeare, Moliere, Racine, etc. Sonnets, monologues, scenes in iambic pentameter and rhyming couplet, exploring rhythm, music, and how these relate to character psychology, motivation. Prerequisite: DRAMA 251. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 352 DRAMA 353 Intermediate Acting - Physical Acting (3-4) VLPA Jeffrey Frace Movement based approaches to the acting process. Suzuki, Viewpoints or other systems that focus on actor's body, space and time, and the creation of effective drama through physicality. Prerequisite: DRAMA 251. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 353 DRAMA 354 Psychophysical Foundations of Acting (4) VLPA Bridget Connors Explores various psychophysical exercises and techniques that awaken and synthesize the breath, body, voice, intellect, emotion and imagination in character transformation for the actor. Substantial focus on the foundational work of Michael Chekhov. Prerequisite: either DRAMA 351, DRAMA 352, or DRAMA 353. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 354 DRAMA 365 Diverse Voices in Performance (5, max. 15) I&S/VLPA, DIV Valerie Curtis-Newton, Tim Bond Topics vary. Examines how theatre and performance celebrate, grapple with, and bear witness to the experiences and representation on stage of historically underrepresented or marginalized communities. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 365 DRAMA 367 African Theatre and Performance (5) VLPA, DIV Catherine M. Cole Theater, dance, and other types of performance, focusing on West Africa and South Africa. Considers plays by writers such as Wole Soyinka, Ama Ata Aidoo, and Athol Fugard, as well as contemporary dance works by choreographers such as Mamela Nyamza and Gregory Maqoma. Topics include slavery, colonialism, and apartheid, all of which have had a profound impact on African history and cultures. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 367 DRAMA 371 Theatre History I (5) I&S/VLPA Explores the history of global theatre and performance from origins in North Africa and the Mediterranean, through ancient and classical Greece, Rome, and India, to Medieval Europe, Elizabethan England and Spanish Golden Age. Builds critical, historical, and cultural understanding through student research and writing. Prerequisite: DRAMA 201. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 371 DRAMA 372 Theatre History II (5) VLPA Global theatre and performance history including classical Chinese and Japanese theatre; Indigenous performance in the Americas; and European developments from the beginnings of the early modern period through the revolutions of late eighteenth century, including Italian Renaissance, English Restoration, and French Neoclassical periods. Goals include building critical, historical, and cultural understanding through student research and writing. Prerequisite: DRAMA 201. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 372 DRAMA 373 Theatre History III (5) VLPA Focuses on the explosion of new theatre and performance forms across the globe from the from the mid-nineteenth century to the present. Explores modern and contemporary theatre and performance from the rise of realism and the early avant garde through the innovations of the twentieth century to political performance and theatre for social change. Builds critical, historical, and cultural understanding through student research and writing. Prerequisite: DRAMA 201. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 373 DRAMA 391 Beginning Technical Practices (1-3, max. 9) VLPA Laboratory course involving specific production assignments, either in-shop or in-theatre, or both. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 391 DRAMA 396 Study Abroad (12, max. 24) VLPA Current global trends in theatrical practice with emphasis on viewing and critiquing international work. Reception theory, various conventions of drama and performance and theories related to tourism and global culture as they relate to performance. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 396 DRAMA 401 Majors Seminar (1, max. 2) VLPA A professional seminar featuring guest artists and career development specialists. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 401 DRAMA 405 Computer Graphics Systems (3) VLPA Introduction to CAD applications in theatre design and technology. Focus on learning to use general purpose graphics software for CAD. Discussion of available hardware and software. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 405 DRAMA 406 Digital Cinema Production (3-5) VLPA Nathan A Braun Set up, operations and delivery of digital media equipment and content based on professional standards of film and TV production. Focuses on narrative film grammar and structures of cinematic storytelling. Covers cinema camera operations, production sound recording, basic cinema lighting. In rotation, students work as assistant director, director of photography, camera operator, sound operator, lighting and grip technician and script supervisor. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 406 DRAMA 407 Documentary in Performance (5) VLPA N. Kwame Braun Video production for documentary, focus on performers and performance. Covers a range of conceptual and technical skills, including pre-visualizing and planning; use of cameras, sound recording equipment and lights; editing. Use of this technology to research and document some aspect of people crafting a performance to present to an audience. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 407 DRAMA 410 Advanced Theatre Technical Practices (2-4, max. 20) VLPA Production-related apprenticeship, in the areas of scene construction, scene painting, costume, or lighting. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 410 DRAMA 414 Scene Design (3, max. 6) VLPA Theory, practice, and rendering of scene designs. Repeat of course involves intermediate designs and models. Prerequisite: DRAMA 210. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 414 DRAMA 415 Stage Costume Design (3, max. 6) VLPA Trout Theory, practice, and rendering of costume designs for the theatre. Repeat of course involves intermediate designs. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 415 DRAMA 416 History of Style - Dress, Architecture and Functional Decor (5) VLPA Surveys the history of western design and visual culture from Ancient Greece through today. Covers a range of artistic fields, including clothing, the decorative arts, and architecture and pays particular attention to the sociological, religious, political and economic climates that shape the way we dress and decorate the world around us. Historic representations of the functional arts in film, television and theatre will also be analyzed. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 416 DRAMA 417 Stage Costume Patterning and Construction (3, max. 6) VLPA Techniques of costume construction, including study of fabrics; emphasis on creating patterns by draping. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 417 DRAMA 418 Scene Painting (3, max. 6) VLPA Lecture-laboratory with focus on techniques and principles of scene painting. Uses of various media and types of equipment as applicable to varied scenic pieces. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 418 DRAMA 419 Lighting Design (3, max. 9) VLPA Basic steps to generate a lighting plot and hook-up for a stage production. Includes instruction in the technical knowledge of instrumentation, electricity, drafting and photometrics. Helps students to "see" light better, and to develop a process to "visualize" lighting in for the stage. Recommended: Drama 212 View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 419 DRAMA 420 Design and Technical Drafting (2, max. 4) VLPA Laboratory and project critique covering stage design graphics and technical drawing; specifically: designer's elevations, ground plans, sections, detail drawing, transposition of design drawing information to technical drawings. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 420 DRAMA 421 Drawing and Rendering Techniques for the Theatre (2, max. 10) VLPA Weekly figure-drawing laboratories with live model and weekly field trips for laboratories in drawing natural phenomena and architectural detail. Studies in historical drawing styles. Practice in use of several media and techniques of expression. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 421 DRAMA 441 Beginning Playwriting (1-6, max. 12) VLPA Writing exercises and drafts of a one-act play provide first experience in writing for performance. Readings of representative one-act plays introduce genres and writing styles. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 441 DRAMA 451 Advanced Acting - Production Workshop (4) VLPA Improvisation skills. Methodology employed develops one five-minute solo work, using either original or adaptations of non-dramatic texts. Culminates in public showings of the five-minute one-person works. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 451 DRAMA 452 Advanced Acting - Scene Study (4) VLPA Invites actor to create a role. Script reading for action and consequence. Use and employment of five senses to express a character's life, presenting a coherent and alive person to the stage. Culminates in public performance. Prerequisite: DRAMA 351. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 452 DRAMA 453 Advanced Acting - Physical Training (3-4) VLPA J. FRACE Study of physical training methods of Tadashi Suzuki, Kenji Suzuki, and the relationship of their methodologies to Constantin Stanislavsky. Contemporary monologues analyzed for psychological motivation, while exploring the physical analog of "action" as expressed and accessed by the new physical training. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 453 DRAMA 454 Projects in Acting (3, max. 9) VLPA Rehearsal and classroom performance of dramatic literature of various periods and styles. Prerequisite: DRAMA 251. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 454 DRAMA 455 Alexander Technique (1-3) VLPA C. MADDEN A practical and theoretical introduction to the Alexander Technique, a psychophysical re-education process developed by F. M. Alexander (1869-1955). Studio application of this work improves physical/vocal coordination, enhances creativity, and clarifies thinking. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 455 DRAMA 456 Topics in Theatre for Youth (3-5, max. 10) VLPA Topics in rehearsal and performance of theatre for young audiences; basic principles and techniques for using drama in the classroom; and creating original work for young audiences. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 456 DRAMA 457 Creating Drama (3-5) VLPA Jeffrey Frace Covers learning and application of creative methodologies for the theatre artist. Students study established systems of creative development, the use non-dramatic source texts as a foundation for adaptation into dramatic theatre pieces. Emphasizes artistic entrpreneurship, group collaboration, and applied narrative theories. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 457 DRAMA 460 Introduction to Directing (4) VLPA Curtis-Newton Student is introduced to the art of the stage director. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 460 DRAMA 461 Elementary Directing (4) VLPA Curtis-Newton Elementary study of the art of the stage director. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 461 DRAMA 462 Elementary Directing (4) VLPA Elementary study of the art of the stage director. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 462 DRAMA 466 Stage Management (2-5, max. 15) VLPA Stewart Study and practice of stage management. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 466 DRAMA 490 Special Studies in Acting-Directing (1-6, max. 12) VLPA View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 490 DRAMA 491 Special Studies in Design-Technical (1-6, max. 12) VLPA View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 491 DRAMA 493 Drama Internship (1-6, max. 6) Supervised experiences in an off-campus venue. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 493 DRAMA 494 Special Studies in Theatre and Drama (5, max. 20) VLPA Topics in drama, history, and criticism. See Time Schedule for specific topic. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 494 DRAMA 495 Practicum in Design and Technical Theatre (2-6, max. 15) VLPA Emphasis on developing design and technology problem-solving skills through laboratory and project evaluation. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 495 DRAMA 496 Stage Costume Problems (2, max. 8) VLPA Specific research problems of stage costume design and execution: accessories, masks, wigs, fabric modification, millinery, or construction analysis for specialized costumes. Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 496 DRAMA 498 Theatre Production (1-2, max. 9) VLPA Laboratory course for students participating in School of Drama major productions. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 498 DRAMA 499 Undergraduate Research (1-5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 499 DRAMA 502 Designer-Director Analysis (4) Methods of examining plays to make the collaboration of director and designer productive. Attempts to create a structural whole from visual and verbal approaches to analysis. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 502 DRAMA 506 Visual Communication for Theatrical Designers (3, max. 6) Skip Mercier Expands visual communication skills. Explores individual approaches of working professional designers; increases essential design skills (storyboard, modeling, sketching, costume rendering, drafting) and understanding of unique design voice within framework of standard practice. Steps of typical theatrical design process, from first reading to collaborations necessary, that lead to opening are explored and associated skills for each step. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 506 DRAMA 508 Advanced Stage Lighting Design-Plotmaking (1-3) Development of a working process consistent with current professional practice. Includes drafting, worksheets, color selection, organization systems and other processes related to creating a professional stage lighting plot. Students also read dramatic texts and develop analytical skills. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 508 DRAMA 509 Advanced Stage Lighting Design-Unique Challenges (3) Continued development of lighting design process consistent with current professional practice. Students will be challenged to design lighting plots for unique directorial and scenic conceptual projects. Prerequisite: DRAMA 508 Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 509 DRAMA 510 Design Studio (1-5, max. 40) Skip Mercier, Deborah L Trout, Thomas Lynch, Geoff Korf Design for live performance focused primarily on scenery and costumes. Includes comprehensive investigation of space, form, light, texture, and color in theatre design, interpretation of literary and musical text, understanding of dramatic action, and collaborative communication. Projects include a variety of theatrical and musical genres. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 510 DRAMA 512 Advanced Lighting (1-4, max. 28) Intensive training in lighting design for performance. Includes intermediate and advanced paper projects as well as advanced practical projects. Spans a variety of performance genres and environments. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 512 DRAMA 514 Design and Technical Theatre Colloquium (2, max. 18) Korf, Lynch, Trout Discussion of work in progress or completed in production, centering on the conceptual work of the designer/director on the production and the methods of execution in the shops and on stage. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 514 DRAMA 518 History of Style - Dress, Architecture and Functional Decor (5) Surveys the history of western design and visual culture from Ancient Greece through today. Covers a range of artistic fields, including clothing, the decorative arts, and architecture and pays particular attention to the sociological, religious, political and economic climates that shape the way we dress and decorate the world around us. Historic representations of the functional arts in film, television and theatre will also be analyzed. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 518 DRAMA 519 Projection Design in Performance (3) N. Kwame Braun Attributes, uses, and technology of projections in contemporary theater, dance, live music, sports events, public spectacle, and installation art. Students design and construct their own projections using basic computer programs to explore the three theatrical modes of projections: as lighting; as set; and as overt content. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 519 DRAMA 520 Advanced Theatre Practicum (1-5, max. 15) Professional student internship with professional theatres: scenery, lighting, scene painting, costume, acting, directing, stage management, theatre management. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 520 DRAMA 523 Digital Rendering (3) Covers the basics of digital rendering with an emphasis and application on theatre renderings and sketches. Includes methods of collecting visual research, basic, concepts, and the practical use of software applications. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 523 DRAMA 530 Advanced Stage Lighting Practice-Light Lab (1-3, max. 9) Laboratory practice of stage lighting design. Students will encounter a new hands-on, practical lighting challenge each week. Includes hanging, coloring, and cueing lighting rigs in the Drama light lab. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 530 DRAMA 551 Teaching of Acting (1-3, max. 3) Seminar discussion on problems in teaching acting to undergraduate students in DRAMA 251, DRAMA 252, and DRAMA 253. Prerequisite: permission of instructor and being a teaching assistant in acting. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 551 DRAMA 552 Teaching of Acting (1-3, max. 3) Seminar discussion on problems in teaching acting to undergraduate students in DRAMA 251, DRAMA 252, and DRAMA 253. Prerequisite: permission of instructor and being a teaching assistant in acting. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 552 DRAMA 555 Studies in Acting (2-6, max. 18) Individual or group work on special skills for the actor. Topics vary. Prerequisite: admission to the Professional Actor Training Program. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 555 DRAMA 557 Studio I (12, max. 36) Scott Hafso, Jeffrey Frace, L. Zane Jones, Valerie Curtis-Newton, Catherine Madden, Bridget Connors Skill development in acting, voice, speech, and movement necessary for professional training in acting. Prerequisite: admission to the Professional Actor Training Program. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 557 DRAMA 558 Studio II (12, max. 36) L. Zane Jones, Bridget Connors, Valerie Curtis-Newton, Scott Hafso, Jeffrey Frace, Catherine Madden Continuation of DRAMA 557. Prerequisite: DRAMA 557 and completion of the first year of the Professional Actor Training program. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 558 DRAMA 559 Studio III (6, max. 18) Valerie Curtis-Newton, Jeffrey Frace, Catherine Madden, Bridget Connors, L. Zane Jones, Scott Hafso Specialized and individualized work relating to the main curriculum of the third year of the Professional Actor Training Program. Prerequisite: DRAMA 558 and completion of the second year of the Professional Actor Training Program. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 559 DRAMA 560 Managing the Rehearsal and Production Process (2) Introduction to graduate-level directing. Play analysis, research, performance theory, and concept development as it relates to process-acting and rehearsal, design, staging techniques, and production management. Reading and writing assignments augmented by faculty and professional guests in performance, design, production, and dramaturgy. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 560 DRAMA 561 Directing Projects (2-3, max. 12) Rehearsal techniques and staging skills in a variety of spatial configurations. One-act and full-length plays which follow a prescribed sequence. Prerequisite: graduate standing in the directing program. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 561 DRAMA 562 Performance Studio (1-3, max. 12) Performance techniques in specialized areas of importance to the professional director, including stage combat, speech and dialect, mask, physical comedy, improvisation, and puppetry. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 562 DRAMA 563 Seminar in Directing (2, max. 18) Seminar discussion of current productions; focused readings and discussion in specific areas of dramatic literature and problems related to stage direction. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 563 DRAMA 564 Theatre Studies: History, Theory, Criticism (3, max. 15) Special topics in history, theory, and criticism. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 564 DRAMA 565 Verse Workshop (4) Techniques necessary to direct and perform plays of Shakespeare, Moliere, and other verse playwrights: scansion and imagery; period and style using verse text; crowd scenes, transformations of time and space, and other staging exercises; direction of scenes or acts from verse plays. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 565 DRAMA 566 Directing for Cinema, Television, and Digital Media I (3) Covers the applied methodologies of classic narrative film grammar. Includes the role of the director, in standard production structures, script development and analysis, the language of traditional cinematic storytelling, directing the screen actor, editing, post production, and an examination of new digital media technologies. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 566 DRAMA 567 Acting Process (1-3, max. 30) Development of acting skills necessary for the professional director. Emphasis on physical training, playing action, strong internal technique, imagination and clarity of expression. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 567 DRAMA 568 Writing for the Stage (3, max. 6) Focus on adaptation for the stage of non-dramatic sources, such as literature, poetry, history, and contemporary events. Emphasis on structure, dialogue, dramatic action, rhythm, characterization. Writing exercises using fictive and non-fictive sources, biographical sources, and found objects. For MFA Directing students only. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 568 DRAMA 569 Directing/Teaching Apprenticeship (3, max. 6) Assisting faculty or professional guest director in production for the entire rehearsal period, or assisting faculty in performance training. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 569 DRAMA 571 Problems in Theatre History Research (5, max. 10) Odai Johnson, Scott Magelssen Methods and techniques of research, interpretation, and writing in theatre history. Relationship of theatre arts to culture in diverse periods and places. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 571 DRAMA 572 Problems in Theatre History Research (5, max. 10) Scott Magelssen, Odai Johnson Methods and techniques of research, interpretation, and writing in theatre history. Relationship of theatre arts to culture in diverse periods and places. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 572 DRAMA 573 Problems in Theatre History Research (5, max. 10) Odai Johnson, Scott Magelssen Methods and techniques of research, interpretation, and writing in theatre history. Relationship of theatre arts to culture in diverse periods and places. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 573 DRAMA 575 Seminar in Theatre History (5, max. 10) Johnson Specific topics in theatre history, examining the drama of various national, linguistic, and/or religious culture in detail. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 575 DRAMA 576 Seminar in Theatre History (5, max. 10) Johnson Specific topics in theatre history, examining the drama of various national, linguistic, and/or religious culture in detail. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 576 DRAMA 577 Seminar in Theatre History (5, max. 10) Johnson Specific topics in theatre history, examining the drama of various national, linguistic, and/or religious culture in detail. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 577 DRAMA 581 Analysis of Dramatic Texts (5, max. 10) S. MIHAYLOVA Analytic approaches to dramatic materials, concentrating on semiotics, Marxism, feminism, or a related critical theory. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 581 DRAMA 582 Analysis of Dramatic Texts (5, max. 10) S. MIHAYLOVA Analytic approaches to dramatic materials, concentrating on semiotics, Marxism, feminism, or a related critical theory. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 582 DRAMA 583 Analysis of Dramatic Texts (5, max. 10) S. MIHAYLOVA Analytic approaches to dramatic materials, concentrating on semiotics, Marxism, feminism, or a related critical theory. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 583 DRAMA 585 Seminar in Dramatic Theory (5, max. 10) Stefka Mihaylova Major problems in dramatic theory, such as aesthetics, mimesis, and the nature of theatre. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 585 DRAMA 586 Seminar in Dramatic Theory (5, max. 10) S. MIHAYLOVA Major problems in dramatic theory, such as aesthetics, mimesis, and the nature of theatre. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 586 DRAMA 587 Seminar in Dramatic Theory (5, max. 10) S. MIHAYLOVA Major problems in dramatic theory, such as aesthetics, mimesis, and the nature of theatre. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 587 DRAMA 599 Advanced Studies in Theatre Arts (1-5, max. 20) Independent projects or group study of specialized aspects of theatre arts. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 599 DRAMA 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 600 DRAMA 700 Master's Thesis (*-) View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 700 DRAMA 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) View course details in MyPlan: DRAMA 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022