Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Campus Environment> Health, Safety and Welfare> University Regulation on Employee Mitigation of COVID-19 - Version 1 University Regulation on Employee Mitigation of COVID-19 - Interim Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG05.20.12 Title University Regulation on Employee Mitigation of COVID-19 Category Campus Environment Sub-category Health, Safety and Welfare Authority Chancellor History First Issued as interim August 7, 2020; minor updates October 28, 2020. Contact COVID Coordinator and Chief of Staff; (252) 328-9094 Related Policies REG05.20.11 Regulation on Face Coverings - Interim RUL05.20.04 Eye and Face Protection REG05.20.06 Respiratory Protection REG05.10.02 Environmental Health and Safety Requirements for Events REG05.10.01 Safety Hazard Investigation UNC 300.8.3[R] Regulation on Institutional Occupational Safety and Health Programs Employee Mitigation of COVID-19 SOP Daily Employee Self-screening Process Flow Additional References President Roper June 18, 2020 Face Covering Memo President Roper July 24, 2020 Testing, Contact Tracing, Isolation Quarantine Guidance North Carolina Executive Order 147 UNC System Office Return to On-Site Work Guidance: Human Resources Professionals and Administrators NC Office of State Human Resources Safety Guidance for State Employees“Return” Website US Department of Labor Occupational Health and Safety Guidance on Preparing Workplaces for COVID-19 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Considerations for Institutions for Higher Education NC Department of Health and Human Services Interim Guidance for Institutions of Higher Education (July 17, 2020) EEOC guidance on Employee medical testing 1. Reason for this Regulation   East Carolina University is committed to promoting the health and safety of all students, staff and faculty, as well as guests and visitors to our campus. Our ability to successfully provide a residential, in -person educational experience depends upon each member of the University community adhering to guidelines adopted for our collective health and safety. Each person has a responsibility to know and act in accordance with all applicable University guidelines and policies as referred to in our Return of Pirate Nation Guidelines for Workplace Safety.   Each employee of the University has a responsibility to take steps to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. In addition to wearing face coverings and observing physical distancing requirements, each individual should diligently monitor their own personal health and, as necessary, take steps to avoid contact with others if they are, or may be, positive for COVID-19. All University employees are expected to be familiar with the symptoms of COVID-19 and should seek medical care when appropriate, including complying with medical guidance designed to reduce further transmission of the virus. 2. Where and to whom does this Regulation apply? 2.1 This regulation applies to all ECU employees: 2.1.1 Returning onsite at a University location, including, but not limited to, ECU’s Greenville campus, the Coastal Studies Institute, and the School of Dental Medicine’s Service Learning Centers that are located throughout North Carolina. 3. ECU Community Standards 3.1 Community standards have been established to promote the health of our students, faculty, staff and visitors. We fully expect that everyone on campus will understand and appreciate the critical impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and follow these standards. Our first and preferred approach to assure compliance with these standards will be through public health education and communication. If necessary, however, the University will institute applicable enforcement measures (including disciplinary, legal or other appropriate actions) to address certain violations. 3.1.1 Wash your hands often. Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after you have been in a public place, or after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing. If soap and water are not readily available, use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60 percent alcohol. Cover all surfaces of your hands and rub them together until they feel dry. 3.1.2 Practice physical distancing. Remember that some people without symptoms may be able to spread the virus. Keeping distance from others is especially important for people who are at a higher risk of getting very sick. Research has shown that transmission of COVID-19 can occur even when individuals are asymptomatic. The University guideline on physical distancing asks students, staff, faculty and visitors to stay at least 6 feet away from other people, whenever possible, in all indoor and outdoor settings. Additionally, individuals should avoid gathering in large groups and avoid crowded areas. Minimize opportunities for close contact by limiting sustained exposure (15 or more cumulative minutes over a 24-hour period) or ensuring sufficient social distancing.  3.1.3 Wear a face covering. In accordance with the University’s Regulation on Face Coverings- Interim, face coverings must be worn in all settings, including classrooms, by students, faculty, staff, and visitors from entering the building to leaving the building and in indoor common spaces such as common building spaces and hallways. Face coverings must also be worn in outside areas when individuals are unable to social or physical distance. 3.1.4 Protect the ECU community. Individuals with COVID-19 symptoms or knowledge of exposure should contact their medical provider and not report to work sites, classes or come to campus (unless your primary residence is on-campus).  3.1.5 Engage in smaller group and virtual settings. Individuals and groups, including student and community organizations, should limit in–person programs, events and social gatherings to the number of individuals specified by national, state and local guidance. On-campus space reservations will be limited to those individuals and groups that abide by this guidance. 'The Reservations Office will enforce social distancing guidelines when honoring reservations requests." 3.1.6 Maintain clean spaces. Clean and disinfect surfaces that are frequently touched, such as your mobile phone, with CDC approved disinfectants. 3.1.7 Follow immunization recommendations. Individuals are encouraged (and may be required in certain circumstances) to remain current on recommended immunizations for COVID 19. These vaccines are covered by most health plans. 4. Personal Health Monitoring and COVID-19 Symptoms 4.1 All University employees must carefully monitor their health every day. The following COVID-19 Monitoring Checklist must be considered each day before reporting in-person to perform any duty on behalf of the University, or engaging in any other in-person University activities: Are you currently experiencing, or have you experienced in the last 14 days, any of the following symptoms? fever (100.4 degrees F) cough  shortness of breath or difficulty breathing  sore throat  loss of taste or smell o chills recent body aches/muscle pain  diarrhea vomiting Have you had recent close contact with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19? Close contact is defined as being within 6 feet of an infected, COVID positive person for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period. This includes close contact starting from 2 days before the contact’s symptom onset or, for asymptomatic persons, 2 days prior to COVID 19 test specimen collection. 4.1.1 If an employee answers yes to any of the questions in Section 4.1, he or she should follow CDC guidance regarding self-isolation and contact his/her medical provider, ECU Physicians Rapid Access Clinic (252-744-0555) or ECU’s Office of Prospective Health at employeehealthcovid@ecu.edu for guidance and instructions on when to return to work. Employees must follow their department’s call out procedures to notify their supervisors if they are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 and are unable to or are advised not to report to work at their regularly scheduled time.  4.1.2 Supervisors are responsible for notifying the Office of Prospective Health of any employee that has reported experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 so that the Office of Prospective Health can follow up with the employee regarding medical advice and/or any contract tracing that might be necessary.   4.1.3 An employee who becomes ill with COVID-19 symptoms while at work should leave the workplace and follow CDC guidance regarding self-isolation, the need to seek advice from their healthcare provider, and instructions about when to return to work. • If an employee’s symptoms require immediate medical attention, the supervisor or designee shall call an ambulance to provide first aid and transportation to a medical facility.  • If an employee’s symptoms do not require immediate medical attention but prevent the employee from transporting himself/herself home, a supervisor or designee shall contact the employee’s emergency contact to provide transportation. Taxi, Uber or public transportation should be avoided.  • Housekeeping should be contacted to clean and sanitize the ill employee’s work area after a 24-hour waiting period, if possible. 4.1.4 Employees who exhibit COVID-19 symptoms in the workplace but decline to leave, may be required to leave the workplace and not return until he/she undergoes a medical evaluation in accordance with Section 6.2 below. 5. Mandatory Symptom Screening Prior to Workplace Entry 5.1 Prior to implementation of any mandatory temperature screening or other medical symptom screening of employees, a unit or department must receive Chancellor approval and develop a screening plan that meets the following requirements: 5.1.1 The unit/department must consult with Employee Relations and the Office of University Counsel to ensure that the screening plan is consistent with business necessity, confidentiality regulations, and does not make disability related inquiries; 5.1.2 Employees must be notified and receive training regarding any daily screening process prior to returning to their worksite; 5.1.3 All employees conducting the screening process must have proper personal protective equipment and adhere to CDC Guidance for safe communicable disease screening procedures; 5.1.4 Employee health information, if stored, must be maintained confidentially in accordance with applicable law, separate from the personnel file; and 5.1.5 The final approved plan must be provided to the COVID-19 Coordinator/Chief of Staff . 6. COVID-19 Testing 6.1 Recommendations regarding testing for COVID-19 continue to evolve. Testing of all employees before returning to on-site operations is not recommended, or required. All employees should follow the advice of their health care provider with respect to being tested for COVID-19. In accordance with CDC guidance, the Office of Prospective Health will refer employees for testing. 6.2 University Required Employee COVID-19 Testing 6.2.1 The ADA allows employers to require its employees to undergo mandatory medical testing in the event the employer believes an employee will pose a direct threat to the workplace due to a medical condition. The University may require an employee to be tested for COVID-19 (a test to detect the presence of the COVID-19 virus) in the event the University has a reasonable belief that the individual has symptoms of COVID-19, or has had close contact with an individual who has tested positive. The University will not require employees to undergo antibody testing in order to re-enter the worksite.   6.2.2 If a supervisor believes an employee may be a direct threat to the workplace due to symptoms or exposure to COVID-19, the supervisor must contact Employee Relations and consult with the Office of University Counsel before referring the employee to the Office of Prospective Health for evaluation. 6.3 COVID-19 Positive. State law requires that the local county health department be notified of any person who tests positive for COVID-19. All employees who are tested for COVID-19 are required to notify the University through one of the following mechanisms: 6.3.1 Self-Report to the Office of Prospective Health; 6.3.2 Notification to the supervisor; 6.4 An employee who tests positive for COVID-19 may not return to the workplace in-person or end isolation until they have met the following CDC criteria to discontinue home isolation which can be found here. 7. Isolation/Quarantine. Isolation is required if an employee tests positive for COVID-19. Quarantine may be required if an employee is identified as a close contact of someone who has tested positive. Isolation is for those who have tested positive for COVID-19 or are presumed to have COVID based upon their symptoms. Quarantine is for people who have been exposed to the virus but have not yet been diagnosed. ECU is following all current CDC Guidelines for isolation and quarantine protocol. Please click here for the most up-to-date isolation and quarantine guidance. Isolation and quarantine require staying physically apart from others to prevent the spread of infection. Employees may not be present on the ECU campus, except for the limited purpose of seeking medical care, while in isolation or quarantine. The employee should consult with the Office of Prospective Health at employeehealthcovid@ecu.edu prior to returning to the workplace. 8. Designated COVID-19 Point of Contact Employees with questions or concerns regarding COVID-19 and related safety regulations/protocols should contact the ECU ROSO Coordinator at (252) 328-9886. 9. Relation to Governmental Policies  All students, faculty, staff, contractors, and visitors are expected to know and comply with all recommendations and requirements of the state and municipal authorities in locations where they study, live, or work (e.g., directives of the State of North Carolina, Pitt County, and the City of Greenville and other local municipalities). 10. Employee Leave Employees should contact their benefits counselor with any questions about leave eligibility for work missed due to COVID-19. In addition to sick leave and vacation/bonus leave, employees may be eligible for emergency paid sick leave under the Families First Coronavirus Response Act or special leave provisions provided by the UNC System. 11. Duration of Regulation This Regulation is effective immediately and will remain in effect  indefinitely until withdrawn or modified  by the Chancellor as guided by appropriate public health information and officials.  12. Compliance and Enforcement 12.1 Compliance with this Regulation is mandatory and a condition of continued employment. The University encourages employees to recognize the demonstrated public health benefits of health monitoring, vaccination and booster shots, testing, isolation and quarantine to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. Noncompliance with this regulation may result in disciplinary action in accordance with applicable personnel policies. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier