By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Admitted Dining & Meal Plans More from this Section Syracuse Bound Deferral Request Veterans Syracuse Pathway Program HEOP & SSS Visit Opportunities FAQ Checklist Housing Living Learning Communities Health and Wellness Requirements Expenses, Billing, & Payment Things to Consider Technology International Students Important Dates Discovery Program SummerStart Dining and Meal Plans With five dining centers, multiple food courts, cafés, and campus convenience stores, there are plenty of food options to satisfy your hunger. All Main Campus and Skyhall residents are required to purchase a meal plan. Meal plan options are based on your class year. Please indicate which meal plan you want on the online Housing and Meal Plan Application, which will be available once you submit your Admission Acceptance Form (AAF) and the appropriate payments. Connect with Food Services Your Dietary Needs You’ll have a wide variety of fresh foods to choose from every day, including daily entrees, vegetarian and vegan items, pizza, deli, salad bar, grill, and made-to-order stations. Shaw Dining Center offers Kosher and Halal meals on weekdays for lunch and dinner. Every dining center offers both vegetarian and vegan items at each meal. If you have a special dietary requirement, food allergy, or other nutrition and food-related issue, please make an appointment to meet with the registered dietitian. Assistance is also provided in dining centers if you have visual impairments or limited mobility. Meal Plans View the 2022-23 meal plan descriptions and rates. Costs and descriptions for 2022-23 will be provided when available. Meal plan swipes can be used at Brockway, Ernie Davis, Graham, Sadler, and Shaw Dining Centers. Meal plan accommodations are made for Goldstein Dining (for Skyhall residents only). First-year students may choose one of three plans: the Orange Unlimited Plan, the Blue Unlimited Plan, or the Block 220 Plan. Meal Plan Dining Dollars Meal Plan Dining Dollars are supplemental funds included with most meal plans. This account allows you to buy food on an a-la-carte basis at Schine and Goldstein Student Centers and all campus cafés. They do not roll over into future semesters, and cannot be replenished once they have been spent. If you would like to add more funds to spend at Food Services locations, you will add ‘CUSE Cash, which can be spent at all locations that Meal Plan Dining Dollars are accepted (see below). ‘CUSE Cash ‘CUSE Cash is a declining balance cash account that provides access to food, goods, and services through the University I.D card. This account must be established each academic year. ‘CUSE Cash can be spent at nearly every point of sale on campus: Food Services locations, vending machines, the Schine Box Office, the Stadium Box Office, campus convenience stores, concession stands and shops at the Stadium, and on all products in the Syracuse University Campus Store. The balance on your account carries over from fall semester to spring semester. At the end of the spring semester, unused balances are credited to your bursar account. More information, including how to add funds to your ‘CUSE Cash account, is available here . Related Pages Food Courts and Cafés Food courts and cafés on campus offer lots of choices, whether you're on the run or want to catch up with friends over a cup of coffee. Residential Dining Six dining halls on campus operate from breakfast through dinner time, and some are open late. Nutrition and Sustainability Food Services is dedicated to meeting your nutritional needs throughout our residential dining halls and cafés. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy