Alert message This dialog contains an alert message for the Penn State community. For the latest COVID-19 news and information, visit Penn State's Coronavirus Information website. Continue to follow CDC-recommended health/safety precautions, contact your healthcare provider if you have questions or feel ill, and review information from state and national health authorities. Close Coronavirus Updates Skip to main content This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Featured Impact: Beyond Limitations Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Penn State among top 100 universities in the world in 2022 QS Rankings Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Featured Impact: First To Inspire Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment College and Campus News Surviving in Place: Environmental archeology in Madagascar Hotline Give Apply More Full site navigation menu This dialog contains the full navigation menu for www.psu.edu. Search Term Hotline Give Apply This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment Find Information For: Visitors Prospective Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Business and Industry Veterans and Military Alumni Media Helpful Links Find a Campus Maps Careers Directory Academic Calendar Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Close This is Penn State There’s a reason Penn State consistently ranks among the top one percent of the world’s universities. Across twenty-four campuses and an online World Campus, our 100,000 students and 17,000 faculty and staff know the real measure of success goes beyond the classroom—it’s the positive impact made on communities across the world. Our ideals stem from our origins as Pennsylvania’s sole land-grant institution, which allow us to continue to bring positive impact to humanity through our teaching, research, and engagement mission. And across the world is a community of Penn Staters—more than half a million strong—driven by that same spirit to serve our local and global communities. From access to state-of-the-art resources to interdisciplinary pursuits in collaborative atmospheres, a Penn State degree is more than an education. The experiences and knowledge gained here will form the foundation for the lives our students build. Their contributions to the world begin with a Penn State degree. We are Penn State. One Degree with Endless Opportunities As Pennsylvania’s largest public university, Penn State educates nearly 100,000 students each year—including first-generation college students and adult learners. Outside of the classroom, students have opportunities to round out their education through entrepreneurship, philanthropy, research, internships, and more. There’s Always a Way A strong work ethic combined with a Penn State education has led first-generation student Josh Maldonado-Santiago to a world of opportunity and a life of service as a future Air Force officer. Read Josh’s story Interdisciplinary Research Pursuits Penn State researchers collaborate across disciplines to develop solutions that positively impact the world. Our research expertise extends beyond the lab through partnerships with industrial, governmental, educational, and agricultural leaders. Learn more about our research enterprise. Protecting Pollinators Penn State’s Christina Grozinger and the Center for Pollinator Research are implementing creative approaches to protecting bee populations in Pennsylvania and beyond. Read "Protecting Pollinators" A Voice for All Researcher Janice Light is helping give a voice to people with complex communication needs. Read "A Voice for All" That Martin Sound Penn State’s world-class acoustics expertise aids a legendary Pennsylvania company. Read "That Martin Sound" A Community of Shared Pride and Success After graduation, our community continues to share expertise and support with fellow Penn Staters and neighbors. Our global network of more than half a million alumni is available to students when they want advice on job networking, mentoring opportunities, and what to expect in the future. Around the world, Penn Staters are continuously finding new ways to serve and improve their communities using knowledge gained here. $190M Raised for pediatric cancer research through THON, the world’s largest student-run philanthropy. 740K+ Living alumni worldwide 130+ Countries represented across our student community. Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Get News By Email // Discover News Explore News Careers Facts and Rankings Colleges Campuses Health Care Research Impact Resources Prospective Students Current Students International Students Business and Industry Veterans and Military Visitors Faculty and Staff Alumni Media Popular Links Maps Directory Libraries Academic Calendar LionPATH Stay Connected Emails / Headlines Emergency Notifications Penn State Go Strategic Communications Report Misconduct Police 201 Old Main, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802 814-865-4700 Contact Us Privacy Statement Non Discrimination Accessibility Equal Opportunity Legal Statements The Pennsylvania State University © 2022