University of Houston: College of Pharmacy - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Pharmacy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Pharmacy Prospective Students Pharm.D. Professional Degree Program Graduate Programs Residency & Fellowship Dual Degree Programs Student Handbooks, Policies and Procedures About Us Mission, Vision and Values Vision 2020 Strategic Plan Accreditation PharmD Program Quality Indicators Administration About the Dean Academic Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Policies & Procedures Facilities Visitor Information Directory Academic Departments Pharmacy Practice and Translational Research Pharmacological and Pharmaceutical Sciences Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy People Current Students Pharm.D. Graduate Students Overview Dual Degree Programs Library and Learning Resources Commencement Student Services Directory Student Handbooks, Policies and Procedures Diversity UH Center for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services AACP Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Antiracism Research Research Centers & Institutes Core Laboratory Collaborations UHCOP-DLDCCC Alliance for Drug Discovery-Development and Education Research Education Opportunities Cancer Research Education Program Office of Research News & Events Events Publications Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Golden Cougars Alumni Reunions Volunteer Opportunities Pharmacy Alumni Association Giving Where to Give Types of Gifts Giving Societies Make A Gift HelpDesk Ticketing System UH Home College of Pharmacy PHARMACY Page contents: Apply Now Degree & Post-Grad Programs News Research RESPONSIBILITY. INNOVATION. COLLABORATION. The University of Houston College of Pharmacy combines the opportunities and experiences of the Texas Medical Center’s world-class healthcare community with resources of the University of Houston, the state's premier urban teaching and research university, to offer its students the best possible education. The UH College of Pharmacy aspires to foster a commitment to lifelong learning and an environment where students develop the knowledge, attitudes and skills consistent with the high standards of their profession and/or scientific field. APPLY NOW At A Glance #1Texas First-time Pass Rate 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 NAPLEX Exam (NABP) #16Pharmaceutics Ph.D. program (NRC) #8U.S. First-time Pass Rate 2020 NAPLEX Exam (NABP) #31Research funding among pharmacy colleges (AACP) #26Ph.D.s conferred among pharmacy colleges (AACP) #31Top Colleges of Pharmacy for 2021 (US News & World Report) Degree & Post-Graduate Programs Pharm.D. Professional Program With more than 100 distinct career paths, the Pharm.D. professional degree program prepares students to become practice-ready medication experts in the safe, effective use of drug therapies to achieve optimal patient health outcomes. Learn More > Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy The Pharmaceutical Sciences Ph.D. with a Concentration in Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy trains students to analyze complex issues of cost, access, and quality of pharmaceutical care from clinical, sociobehavioral, economic, and technological perspectives. Learn More > Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmaceutics and Pharmacology The Pharmaceutical Sciences Ph.D. with a Concentration in Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmaceutics or Pharmacology actively engages students in drug discovery, development, and target identification while being preparing them to conduct independent research in the search for life-saving therapies. Learn More > Pharmacy Leadership & Administration Designed to develop pharmacy innovators and pioneers, the M.S. in Pharmacy Leadership and Administration is part of 'The Houston Program' in collaboration with seven fellow Texas Medical Center institutions offering PGY1-PGY2 Health-System Pharmacy Administration residency programs. Learn More > Residency & Fellowship Through post-graduate training in the clinical, community, laboratory and classroom settings, UHCOP offers unique residency and fellowship opportunities in academic, infectious diseases, and ambulatory care pharmacy and research. Learn More > Dual Degree Programs The Pharm.D./MBA and Ph.D./M.A. in Applied Economics dual degree programs offer enhanced education and training in such career fields as entrepreneurship, executive/corporate pharmacy operations, and health economics and outcomes research. Learn More > Rio Grande Valley Pharm.D. Satellite Program As part of its commitment to reducing health disparities across Texas and providing cuturally and linguistically competent patient care, UHCOP has established the Rio Grande Valley Pharm.D. Satellite Program to expand clinical pharmacy services as well as clinical and translational research in the rapidly growing region of South Texas. The UHCOP RGV Pharm.D. Satellite Program is in collaboration with Edinburg, Texas-based DHR Health. More About the RGV Pharm.D. Satellite Program Hispanic Healthcare Certificate Program South Texas College-UHCOP Cooperative Program Meet the RGV Pharm.D. Satellite Team News Commencement Honors New Alumni, Golden Cougars The college awarded 109 Pharm.D., 19 Ph.D., and M.S. degrees, as well as honored seven "Golden Cougars" from the Class of 1972, at 2022 Commencement ceremony. Graduating Students Draw Cheers for Academics, Leadership Students and a faculty member were awarded for their hardwork at the Class of 2022 Graduation Reception & Awards. Top Preceptors Recognized with Experiential Awards The college recently recognized several pharmacy organizations and individuals for providing excellence in experiential education to Pharm.D. students during the 2021-22 academic year. Upsilon Captures Phi Lambda Sigma Chapter of Year Title UHCOP's Upsilon Chapter of the Phi Lambda Sigma Pharmacy Leadership Society took home the national Chapter of the Year Award, its third title in seven years. More Headlines News Archives Upcoming Events Seminars Research UHCOP faculty members have received national recognition for their research and service. Recent faculty publications have appeared in such journals as Nature and Science, as well as major pharmacological, pharmaceutical and physiological journals. College faculty research and program initiatives include cardiovascular studies, nanoparticle drug delivery systems, neuropharmacology, signal transduction mechanisms, aging and exercise, infectious disease protocols, and patient counseling, and opioid misuse prevention strategies. Centers and Institutes Core Laboratory UH Drug Discovery Institute Cancer Research Education Program Student Research Opportunities University of Houston College of Pharmacy 4349 Martin Luther King Boulevard Houston, Texas 77204-5000 713-743-1239 Prospective Students Research News & Events Pharm.D. Performance Indicators Handbooks, Policies and Procedures Update Alumni Information About Us About the Dean Academic Departments Facilities Directory ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies