Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Diversity and Inclusion Breadcrumb Home News from Brown News Search Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 40 Results based on your selections. University Initiatives Brown adopts land acknowledgment, additional commitments to Native and Indigenous communities May 24, 2022 The acknowledgment is part of a set of commitments aimed at building a better understanding of the relationship between the University community, Indigenous peoples of the region and the land on which Brown is situated. Read Article Open details for Brown adopts land acknowledgment, additional commitments to Native and Indigenous communities News and Events New Kessler Scholars Program at Brown will expand support for first-gen, low-income students April 12, 2022 Building on the success of the University’s existing FLiSP program, a new five-year, $1 million grant will create the Kessler Scholars Program, a cohort-based model that bolsters support for first-generation, low-income students. Read Article Open details for New Kessler Scholars Program at Brown will expand support for first-gen, low-income students News and Events $10 million gift from Reed Hastings, Patty Quillin to bolster 58-year-old Brown-Tougaloo Partnership February 21, 2022 The generous gift from Netflix CEO Reed Hastings and producer Patty Quillin will provide much-needed financial support to students from Tougaloo College, an HBCU in Mississippi, including many who come to Brown. Read Article Open details for $10 million gift from Reed Hastings, Patty Quillin to bolster 58-year-old Brown-Tougaloo Partnership Health and Medicine At community health clinic in Providence, improving access and care for LGBTQ+ patients February 11, 2022 Founded by Brown faculty members Dr. Amy Nunn and Dr. Philip Chan, Open Door Health is lowering barriers to health care by providing culturally congruent LGBTQ+-focused care. Read Article Open details for At community health clinic in Providence, improving access and care for LGBTQ+ patients Science and Technology Grant project supports Asian American and Pacific Islander students in geoscience December 20, 2021 The National Science Foundation will support a project aimed at helping Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders thrive in Earth and geological science education and careers. Read Article Open details for Grant project supports Asian American and Pacific Islander students in geoscience University Initiatives Scholars, leaders reflect on Brown’s transformative Slavery and Justice Report November 12, 2021 University leaders, faculty, alumni and students gathered on Friday, Nov. 12, to celebrate a new second edition of the report, discuss the original report’s legacy and debate what work remains at Brown and beyond. Read Article Open details for Scholars, leaders reflect on Brown’s transformative Slavery and Justice Report University Initiatives Fifteen years after its publication, Brown’s watershed Slavery and Justice Report is reinvigorated November 12, 2021 A second edition of Brown’s landmark report, which sparked a national conversation on higher education’s entanglements with racial slavery, offers new insights on the document’s persistent and evolving impact. Read Article Open details for Fifteen years after its publication, Brown’s watershed Slavery and Justice Report is reinvigorated News and Events 52 accomplished scholars join Brown faculty as 2021-22 academic year begins September 7, 2021 As the 2021-22 academic year begins, Brown welcomes a diverse and dynamic group of talented new faculty members and scholars to campus. Read Article Open details for 52 accomplished scholars join Brown faculty as 2021-22 academic year begins Student Life For new BCSC director, success for students of color starts with inclusivity, community August 4, 2021 Vincent Harris, who became director of the Brown Center for Students of Color in June, brings a decade of experience creating inclusive university spaces where students from historically underrepresented groups thrive. Read Article Open details for For new BCSC director, success for students of color starts with inclusivity, community Science and Technology Brown physicist, Ph.D. student launch mentoring program for underrepresented students August 2, 2021 Working with the National Society of Black Physicists and the Harlem Gallery of Science, Brown physicist Stephon Alexander with the help of Ph.D. student Farrah Simpson launched the Dream+Inspire: Mentoring Future Leaders program. Read Article Open details for Brown physicist, Ph.D. student launch mentoring program for underrepresented students Arts and Humanities With new awards, humanities, social sciences faculty to advance scholarship on freedom, sexuality July 26, 2021 Prestigious awards from the Institute for Citizens and Scholars will allow assistant professors Elena Shih and Emily Owens to finish book projects on contemporary sex trafficking, and enslaved women in antebellum New Orleans. Read Article Open details for With new awards, humanities, social sciences faculty to advance scholarship on freedom, sexuality Science and Technology Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects July 8, 2021 A study that looked at 10-year outcomes of the Initiative to Maximize Student Development showed that it increased diversity within academic programs and prepared underrepresented students for successful careers in STEM. Read Article Open details for Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects News and Events Accomplished higher ed leader Sylvia Carey-Butler to lead institutional equity and diversity at Brown June 24, 2021 Currently the chief diversity officer for Kennesaw State, Carey-Butler will lead the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity, overseeing Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan implementation, Title IX and gender equity, and more. Read Article Open details for Accomplished higher ed leader Sylvia Carey-Butler to lead institutional equity and diversity at Brown Arts and Humanities $5 million gift to fuel new ideas, welcome new leadership at Brown’s Pembroke Center June 16, 2021 The gift from Class of 1976 Brown alumna Shauna Stark, the largest in the Pembroke Center’s history, will establish an endowed directorship and support bold feminist research by scholars from multiple fields of study. Read Article Open details for $5 million gift to fuel new ideas, welcome new leadership at Brown’s Pembroke Center Science and Technology Scientific computing technology should benefit all, Brown researcher tells Congress May 19, 2021 Speaking before a U.S. House of Representatives subcommittee, computer scientist Seny Kamara urged lawmakers to make sure computing technology benefits society at large, not just a privileged few. Read Article Open details for Scientific computing technology should benefit all, Brown researcher tells Congress Social Sciences With new special collections policy, John Hay Library aims to diversify the historical canon May 11, 2021 The John Hay Library’s new collection policy is intended to support new trends in scholarship on campus and to diversify the personal and community stories told in Brown’s archives and special collections. Read Article Open details for With new special collections policy, John Hay Library aims to diversify the historical canon News and Events Letter from President Paxson: Justice for George Floyd; our work continues April 20, 2021 Following the conviction of Derek Chauvin, Brown President Christina H. Paxson wrote to the community about the justice many have hoped for since the murder of George Floyd and the need for continued action to confront anti-Black racism. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Justice for George Floyd; our work continues University Initiatives Phase II of Brown’s Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan to focus on equity, inclusion April 1, 2021 In launching Phase II of its ambitious action plan, Brown assessed progress to date, reaffirmed the essential role of diversity and inclusion to academic excellence, and outlined new actions toward a more fully equitable community. Read Article Open details for Phase II of Brown’s Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan to focus on equity, inclusion News and Events Letter from President Paxson: Confronting anti-Asian bias and violence March 18, 2021 As the nation confronts incidents of violence against Asian and Asian American community members, Brown's president conveyed the University's firm stance against discrimination, racism and hate. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Confronting anti-Asian bias and violence University Initiatives $20 million in new giving marks growing support for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives at Brown February 26, 2021 With continued momentum in support of Brown’s diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, new BrownTogether gifts and grants are catalyzing research on race and inequity, and supporting students from underrepresented groups. Read Article Open details for $20 million in new giving marks growing support for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives at Brown News and Events Diversity leader Shontay Delalue to become senior vice president and senior diversity officer at Dartmouth February 4, 2021 Brown’s vice president for institutional equity and diversity since 2017, Delalue leaves a legacy of continued momentum toward creating a fully diverse and inclusive academic community at Brown. Read Article Open details for Diversity leader Shontay Delalue to become senior vice president and senior diversity officer at Dartmouth University Initiatives For the Brown community, honoring the values of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. January 18, 2021 In the face of enduring systemic racism and profound political divisiveness, Brown President Christina H. Paxson urged students, faculty and staff to uphold the values that define King’s legacy. Read Article Open details for For the Brown community, honoring the values of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Science and Technology Brown alumna selected for NASA’s new lunar exploration program December 14, 2020 As one of 18 astronauts selected for NASA’s Artemis program, Brown Class of 1999 graduate and accomplished astronaut Jessica Meir has a chance to become the first woman to walk on the Moon. Read Article Open details for Brown alumna selected for NASA’s new lunar exploration program Arts and Humanities On its 50th anniversary, Rites and Reason Theatre says goodbye to its ‘beating heart’ December 10, 2020 A virtual fete on Tuesday, Dec. 15, will pay tribute to Karen Allen Baxter, who has served as senior managing director of Brown’s Rites and Reason Theatre since 1988. Read Article Open details for On its 50th anniversary, Rites and Reason Theatre says goodbye to its ‘beating heart’ News and Events Brown urges court to block federal executive order that challenges diversity, equity programs November 25, 2020 Brown and seven other colleges and universities argue that a Sept. 22 executive order from President Trump will regulate speech based on viewpoint and threaten innovative research on health, medicine, technology and more. Read Article Open details for Brown urges court to block federal executive order that challenges diversity, equity programs Arts and Humanities Brown is first non-HBCU invited to join national HBCU Library Alliance November 16, 2020 The University is the newest member of a nationwide alliance dedicated to preserving and advancing the scholarly and institutional library collections of historically Black colleges and universities. Read Article Open details for Brown is first non-HBCU invited to join national HBCU Library Alliance News and Events Student veterans reflect on service, support, sacrifice November 11, 2020 Four Brown students who are veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces shared their thoughts on how military service has given them a unique perspective in the classroom and in the community. Read Article Open details for Student veterans reflect on service, support, sacrifice Social Sciences Political, environmental, race scholars share presidential debate takeaways October 23, 2020 Faculty at Brown shared their thoughts on the final televised presidential debate before the 2020 election, where the two major candidates sparred over COVID-19, climate change and racial justice. Read Article Open details for Political, environmental, race scholars share presidential debate takeaways Arts and Humanities New series of discussions, performances and podcasts will focus on the migrant experience October 20, 2020 A Sawyer Seminar grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation will fund a series of Brown University-based events and community partnerships focused on migration from and within Latin America and the Caribbean. Read Article Open details for New series of discussions, performances and podcasts will focus on the migrant experience News and Events Letter from Brown’s senior leaders: Update on actions to address racial injustice September 1, 2020 The crucial fight to do away with systemic racism requires the deep-rooted, long-term commitment of all members of the Brown community, University leaders noted. Read Article Open details for Letter from Brown’s senior leaders: Update on actions to address racial injustice News and Events Brown earns national recognition for commitment to diversity, inclusion September 1, 2020 The Higher Education Excellence in Diversity award recognizes the University’s campus-wide commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion across all facets of its community. Read Article Open details for Brown earns national recognition for commitment to diversity, inclusion Social Sciences Race and politics scholar weighs in on Black Lives Matter movement’s resurgence July 27, 2020 Juliet Hooker, a professor of political science at Brown, has long conducted research at the intersection of race and politics — work now catapulted into the spotlight as Americans increasingly consider systemic racism. Read Article Open details for Race and politics scholar weighs in on Black Lives Matter movement’s resurgence Science and Technology Brown professors, students make the case for diversity, equity in physics July 23, 2020 In the wake of George Floyd’s brutal killing, physicists and students from Brown took to the web to discuss strategies for increasing diversity and inclusion in the physics community across the nation. Read Article Open details for Brown professors, students make the case for diversity, equity in physics University Initiatives Letter from President Paxson: Supporting Brown’s International Students July 8, 2020 President Christina H. Paxson wrote to the campus community about University opposition to new federal guidance on the Student and Exchange Visitor Program and how Brown can best support its international students. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Supporting Brown’s International Students Health and Medicine For underrepresented scholars, fellowship will fund Brown MPH to train new generation of leaders June 15, 2020 A new Health Equity Scholars fellowship program from Brown’s School of Public Health and Tougaloo College is aimed at expanding diversity among public health leaders and addressing racism as a public health problem. Read Article Open details for For underrepresented scholars, fellowship will fund Brown MPH to train new generation of leaders Arts and Humanities Podcast by Tricia Rose, Cornel West explores African American arts, culture, history and politics June 12, 2020 “The Tight Rope,” co-hosted by two prominent scholars at Brown and Harvard, respectively, offers in-depth yet accessible conversations about race, social justice and African American arts and culture. Read Article Open details for Podcast by Tricia Rose, Cornel West explores African American arts, culture, history and politics News and Events Letter from Brown’s senior leaders: Confronting racial injustice June 1, 2020 As communities confront ongoing anti-black racism, University leaders wrote to the Brown community to express deep sadness and anger regarding incidents that continue to cut short the lives of black people. Read Article Open details for Letter from Brown’s senior leaders: Confronting racial injustice Arts and Humanities Collection from renowned black feminist theorist generating excitement at Brown February 21, 2020 With the papers of Hortense J. Spillers arriving at Brown last fall, the Pembroke Center Archives has deepened its archive of black feminist theory. Read Article Open details for Collection from renowned black feminist theorist generating excitement at Brown News and Events Race expert and educator Beverly Daniel Tatum to deliver MLK Jr. Lecture January 16, 2020 An acclaimed leader in higher education and race relations, President Emerita of Spelman College Beverly Daniel Tatum will share insights during a moderated discussion on Tuesday, Feb. 11, at Brown. Read Article Open details for Race expert and educator Beverly Daniel Tatum to deliver MLK Jr. Lecture Arts and Humanities With $4M grant, Brown and university partners to expand study of race in the humanities January 14, 2020 A four-year Mellon Foundation grant will enable the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity and academic centers at three fellow institutions to expand research and teaching opportunities on race and ethnicity. Read Article Open details for With $4M grant, Brown and university partners to expand study of race in the humanities Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Diversity and Inclusion Open details for Diversity and Inclusion Bookmark this Page