columbia_noon Apply Apply Menu Directory Search The School Dean’s Letter Faculty Administration News Events Student Work Media Archive Alumni Campaign Visit Contact Programs Architecture Master of Architecture M.S. Advanced Architectural Design M.S. Computational Design Practices M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices Ph.D. Architecture New York/Paris Intro to Architecture Urbanism M.S. Architecture and Urban Design M.S. Urban Planning Ph.D. Urban Planning Preservation M.S. Historic Preservation Ph.D. Historic Preservation Real Estate M.S. Real Estate Development Research Centers Labs Incubator Initiatives Exhibitions Publications Resources Academic Calendar Courses Faculty Resources Hybrid Pedagogy Guide Student Resources Policies & Resources Career Services COVID-19 Resources Student Organizations Facilities Avery Library Arthur Ross Architecture Gallery Making Studio Output Shop Preservation Technology Lab Admissions Thinking About Applying Application Process After You’re Admitted Tuition & Aid FAQ Give Apply A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z # A AIA CES Credits Lyla Catellier directory_staff Created with Sketch. /aiacescredits link_arrow Created with Sketch. AV Office 321M Fayerweather Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Christopher Day directory_staff Created with Sketch. /audio-video-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Abstract Publication 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Shannon Werle directory_staff Created with Sketch. /abstract link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Affairs 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /academic-affair… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Calendar, Columbia University http://registrar… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Calendar, GSAPP /academic-calend… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Admissions Office 407 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Steffen Boddeker directory_staff Created with Sketch. /admissions link_arrow Created with Sketch. Advanced Standing Waiver Form Must be printed and returned to 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://d37vpt3x… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Alumni Board /alumni/board link_arrow Created with Sketch. Alumni Office 405 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Leah Cohen, Jillian Barsalou Kincaid, Esther Turay, Leslie Kuo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /alumni/contact link_arrow Created with Sketch. Anti-Racism Curriculum Development Award /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Architecture Studio Lottery /architecture-st… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Assistantships /assistantships link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Library 300 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. http://library.c… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Review http://averyrevi… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Shorts http://www.avery… link_arrow Created with Sketch. B Black Student Alliance at Columbia GSAPP /bsa link_arrow Created with Sketch. Building Science & Technology Waivers /building-tech-w… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Bulletin Archive /bulletin-archiv… link_arrow Created with Sketch. C COVID-19 FAQ /covid-19-faq link_arrow Created with Sketch. COVID-19 Resources /covid-19-resour… link_arrow Created with Sketch. COVID-19 Resources for the Columbia Community https://covid19.… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Career Services 407 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /career-services… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Climate /climate link_arrow Created with Sketch. Columbia Books on Architecture and the City Isabelle Kirkham-Lewitt, Joanna Kloppenburg directory_staff Created with Sketch. /books link_arrow Created with Sketch. Commencement /commencement link_arrow Created with Sketch. Communications Office 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Steffen Boddeker, Shannon Werle, Lucy Krebsbach directory_staff Created with Sketch. /communications-… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Conversations podcast /conversations link_arrow Created with Sketch. Counseling and Psychological Services http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Courses /courses link_arrow Created with Sketch. Credit Transfer /credit-transfer… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Cross Registration /cross-registrat… link_arrow Created with Sketch. D Data & Design /data-design link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Letter /deans-letter link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Office 402 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Nicholas Roberts directory_staff Created with Sketch. /deans-office link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Unlearning Whiteness Research Award /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Development Office 404 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Leah Cohen, Jillian Barsalou Kincaid, Esther Turay, Leslie Kuo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /development-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Directory of Classes (All Columbia University) http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Disability Services http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dodge Fitness Center 3030 Broadway Dodge directory_address Created with Sketch. https://perec.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dual Degree Program Requirements /dual-degree-req… link_arrow Created with Sketch. E End of Year Show /eoys link_arrow Created with Sketch. Equity /equity link_arrow Created with Sketch. Events Office 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Lyla Catellier directory_staff Created with Sketch. /events-office link_arrow Created with Sketch. Exhibitions Office Irene Sunwoo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /exhibitions-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. External Funding Sources /admissions/tuit… link_arrow Created with Sketch. F Faculty /faculty link_arrow Created with Sketch. Faculty Conduct /faculty-conduct… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Feedback /feedback link_arrow Created with Sketch. Finance Office 406 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /finance-adminis… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Fitch Colloquium /fitch link_arrow Created with Sketch. Future Anterior Jorge Otero-Pailos directory_staff Created with Sketch. /future-anterior… link_arrow Created with Sketch. G GIS /gis link_arrow Created with Sketch. GIS Tutorials /gis/tutorials link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPP Community Fellowship Program /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPP Emergency Fund /gsapp-emergency… link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPPXx+ /gsappxxplus link_arrow Created with Sketch. Grades /grades link_arrow Created with Sketch. Graduation /commencement link_arrow Created with Sketch. Graphics Project Yoonjai Choi directory_staff Created with Sketch. /graphics-projec… link_arrow Created with Sketch. H HEERF Program /heerf-program link_arrow Created with Sketch. Historic Preservation Newsletter http://us2.campa… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Honor System /honor-system link_arrow Created with Sketch. Human Resources /finance-human-r… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Hybrid Pedagogy Resources /hybrid-pedagogy… link_arrow Created with Sketch. I Identity /identity link_arrow Created with Sketch. Incubator Prize David Benjamin directory_staff Created with Sketch. /research/gsapp-… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology Helpdesk Ticket, GSAPP https://bit.ly/2… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology Office, GSAPP Ben Goldie directory_staff Created with Sketch. /it-support link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology, Columbia University (CUIT) http://cuit.colu… link_arrow Created with Sketch. International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. J Job Opportunities at Columbia http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. K Kenneth Frampton Endowed Lecture Series /frampton-lectur… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Kinne Prize /kinne link_arrow Created with Sketch. L LatinGSAPP /latingsapp link_arrow Created with Sketch. Leave of Absence Policy /leave-of-absenc… link_arrow Created with Sketch. M Making Studio Schermerhorn Extension Floor 1 directory_address Created with Sketch. Joshua Jordan directory_staff Created with Sketch. https://www.arch… link_arrow Created with Sketch. N News and Press Releases /news link_arrow Created with Sketch. Newsletter Sign Up https://columbia… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy /non-discriminat… link_arrow Created with Sketch. O Onera Prize for Historic Preservation /onera-prize link_arrow Created with Sketch. Online Admissions Application GSAPP Admissions 407 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://apply.gs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Output Shop 116 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Carlito Bayne, Sherly Orilas directory_staff Created with Sketch. /output-shop link_arrow Created with Sketch. Ownership of Student Work Policy /ownership-of-wo… link_arrow Created with Sketch. P Paris Prize, Buell Center /buell-paris-pri… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Paul S. Byard Memorial Lecture Series /byard-lectures link_arrow Created with Sketch. Percival & Naomi Goodman Fellowship /goodman-fellows… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Plagiarism Policy /plagiarism-poli… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Policies & Resources /policies-resour… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Press Releases /news link_arrow Created with Sketch. Publications Office 407 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Isabelle Kirkham-Lewitt, Joanna Kloppenburg directory_staff Created with Sketch. /books link_arrow Created with Sketch. Q QSAPP /qsapp link_arrow Created with Sketch. R Registration /registration link_arrow Created with Sketch. Registration: Add / Drop Form https://apply.gs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Room Reservations /room-reservatio… link_arrow Created with Sketch. S STEM Designation /stem link_arrow Created with Sketch. Satisfactory Academic Progress /satisfactory-ac… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Skill Trails Dan Taeyoung directory_staff Created with Sketch. https://skilltra… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Affairs 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. JD Stogdill directory_staff Created with Sketch. /student-affairs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Awards /student-awards link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Conduct /student-conduct… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Council (All Programs) /student-council… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Financial Services http://sfs.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Health Services at Columbia http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Organization Handbook /books/reader/59… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Organizations /student-organiz… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Services Center 205 Kent Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://ssc.colu… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Services Online (SSOL) https://ssol.col… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Work Online /student-work link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio Culture Policy /architecture-st… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio Procedures /studio-procedur… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio-X Global Network /studio-x link_arrow Created with Sketch. Summer Workshops /summer-workshop… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Support GSAPP https://arch.giv… link_arrow Created with Sketch. T Travel Guide /finance-adminis… link_arrow Created with Sketch. U URBAN Magazine /urban-mag link_arrow Created with Sketch. University Apartment Housing (UAH) http://facilitie… link_arrow Created with Sketch. University Resources /university-reso… link_arrow Created with Sketch. V Virtual Studios /hybrid-pedagogy… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Visual Resources Collection (VRC) Fayerweather 204 directory_address Created with Sketch. /vrc link_arrow Created with Sketch. W Website Steffen Boddeker, Shannon Werle directory_staff Created with Sketch. /website-colopho… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Links for... COVID-19 Resources Hybrid Pedagogy Guide GSAPP COVID-19 Resources Columbia COVID-19 Resources Student Health Services Students & Faculty Student Resources Faculty Resources Course Listing 2022 Commencement Prospective students 2021 Virtual Open House Thinking about Applying Compare Programs Student Work Columbia University Columbia Student Resources University Directory Office of University Life Columbia Libraries Close This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice Group 6 Admissions Thinking About Applying Application Process After You’re Admitted Tuition & Aid FAQ Apply Application Process & Requirements Columbia GSAPP is committed to attracting the best talent from a wide range of geographic, cultural, and economic backgrounds, and employs a holistic application review process that considers multiple factors with the intent of creating a class enhanced by diverse voices. Applicants are considered for their academic merit, potential, and individual experiences, and are selected to shape the best possible educational environment in the School’s studios and classrooms for the student body at large. Each degree program offered by Columbia GSAPP has unique admissions requirements. Please select your program of interest below, and carefully review the program-specific application deadlines, processes, and requirements, as well as the admissions policies. If you need any additional help, please reference the FAQ page or contact the Admissions office at arch_admissions@columbia.edu. Online Application Open House and Info Sessions STEM Designation 2022 GRE Waiver SELECT YOUR PROGRAM Master of Architecture M.S. Advanced Architectural Design M.S. Architecture and Urban Design M.S. Computational Design Practices M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices M.S. Historic Preservation M.S. Real Estate Development M.S. Urban Planning Ph.D. in Architecture Ph.D. in Historic Preservation Ph.D. in Urban Planning New York / Paris Intro to Architecture Visiting Scholar Special Student Master of Architecture Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: JANUARY 3, 2022 All Master of Architecture students must complete prerequisites before the start of the program. Please review the M.ARCH Prerequisites webpage for full details. All applicants must have an undergraduate degree from an accredited college or university by the time they start the M.ARCH program. All applicants must have fulfilled a minimum of 45 credit hours of general studies in the arts, humanities and/or science at their undergraduate institution. History/Theory Course Sequence: All applicants must have completed a 3-point survey course in architectural history at an accredited college or university dealing with any of the following periods: classical to Renaissance, Renaissance to modern, or modern. Building Technologies Course Sequence: All applicants must have completed a 3-point course in general physics or two 3-point calculus courses at an accredited college or university. Applicants who have no prior background in architecture must complete a course in architectural graphic presentation (this could be one term of architectural studio or a studio in the visual arts such as drawing, painting, or sculpture) as a prerequisite for the Core Studio Sequence, before registering in the M.ARCH program. Application Steps 1. Online Application 2. Letters of Recommendation 3. Personal Statement 4. Transcripts 5. Portfolio 6. Resumé/CV 7. GRE 8. TOEFL 9. Dual Degree Option 10. Application Status Online Application Create and complete an online application. A fee of $75 (payable by Visa or MasterCard) is due at the time of application submission. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation are required for all degree program applicants. GSAPP does not have a special form for letters of recommendation. Recommenders may scan and upload recommendation letters to the online application. Letters received directly from applicants will not be accepted. Letters of recommendation are due by the application deadline. Personal Statement A personal statement is required for admission to each program (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture). In approximately 500 words, describe your background, your past work in your intended field of study and your plans for graduate study and a professional career. Transcripts An academic transcript/record from each university attended and credit earned is required for all applicants. All transcripts must be received by the application deadline. Applicants should upload a digital copy or scan of their transcript/s to the online application. We allow digital copies of transcripts for review purposes only. Please note that the applicant may upload unofficial transcripts at the start of the application process. Once an applicant has been admitted and has indicated acceptance of our offer of admission, certified and secure online official transcripts must be submitted directly to Columbia from the applicant’s prior institution(s)’ Registrar Office. Please note that incoming students for the fall 2019 semester will be contacted with specific instructions on electronic submission from prior institution(s) for receipt of these documents. Only if a prior academic institution is unable to submit certified and secure online official transcripts, an official transcript in a sealed envelope must be sent directly from that institution’s Registrar Office to Columbia. Columbia will use its verification vendor to verify the applicant’s degree and transcript with the prior academic institutions and/or the relevant country’s Ministry of Education. Applicants will be asked to consent to participate in this verification process by submitting an authorization and release form. Portfolio A digital portfolio is required for admission to the M. ARCH, M.S. AAD, M.S. AUD, M.S. CDP, and M.S. CCCP programs. The digital portfolio should be in a single PDF document, 20 PDF pages or less (including the cover pages and table of contents, if applicable), and should not exceed 32 MB. The digital portfolio should be optimized for viewing on a standard size computer screen. Digital portfolios must be uploaded at the time the application is submitted. Portfolios should contain reproductions of original drawings, prints, graphic design, or sculpture. Resumé/CV Resumes or CVs are required for all degree applicants and CVs are required for Visiting Scholar applicants. GRE 2021-2022 Admissions GRE Waiver Columbia GSAPP is waiving the GRE requirement on master’s degree program applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Applicants who have prior score results may submit them as part of the MARCH, MSCCCP, MSHP, MSRED, and MSUP application. GRE scores are valid for five years after the test date. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164. GRE scores are valid for five years after the test date. At this time there is no minimum required GRE score for admission. TOEFL All applicants whose native language is not English must submit TOEFL scores (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture applicants). At this time there is no minimum TOEFL score required for admission. International students who have successfully completed two years of study in an English-speaking institution may waive the TOEFL exam requirement provided they can submit relevant transcripts. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164, Dept. Code 12. TOEFL scores are valid for two years after the test date. 2021-2022 Admissions TOEFL Alternatives Columbia GSAPP will accept IELTS and Duolingo test results as alternatives to TOEFL scores on applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Dual Degree Option The following programs are approved for dual degree within GSAPP: - M. ARCH & M.S. CCCP - M. ARCH & M.S. UP - M. ARCH & M.S. HP - M. ARCH & M.S. RED - M.S. UP & M.S. HP - M.S. UP & M.S. RED - M.S. HP & M.S. RED The following programs are approved for dual degree with other schools at Columbia: - M.S. UP & Master of Business Administration (with the Business School) - M.S. UP & Juris Doctor (with the School of Law) - M.S. UP & Master of Science in Social Work (with the School of Social Work - M.S. UP & Master of Science in Public Health (with the Mailman School of Public Health) - M.S. UP & Master of International Affairs (with the School of International and Public Affairs) Program requirements, including suggested course sequences can be found here. Application Status Prospective students are strongly encouraged to review application policies and procedures before submitting an online application. The GSAPP only accepts applications online. Applicants may check the status of their application after submission by logging into their account with their email address and password and reviewing the status page. Apply M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: JANUARY 15, 2022 The M.S.AAD program is a second/post-professional degree in Architecture. All applicants must have a first professional degree, B.Arch, M.Arch, or equivalent degree (5 years, eligible for licensure) by the time they start the M.S. AAD program. Application Steps 1. Online Application 2. Letters of Recommendation 3. Personal Statement 4. Transcripts 5. Portfolio 6. Resumé/CV 7. TOEFL 8. Application Status Online Application Create and complete an online application. A fee of $75 (payable by Visa or MasterCard) is due at the time of application submission. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation are required for all degree program applicants. GSAPP does not have a special form for letters of recommendation. Recommenders may scan and upload recommendation letters to the online application. Letters received directly from applicants will not be accepted. Letters of recommendation are due by the application deadline. Personal Statement A personal statement is required for admission to each program (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture). In approximately 500 words, describe your background, your past work in your intended field of study and your plans for graduate study and a professional career. Transcripts An academic transcript/record from each university attended and credit earned is required for all applicants. All transcripts must be received by the application deadline. Applicants should upload a digital copy or scan of their transcript/s to the online application. We allow digital copies of transcripts for review purposes only. Please note that the applicant may upload unofficial transcripts at the start of the application process. Once an applicant has been admitted and has indicated acceptance of our offer of admission, certified and secure online official transcripts must be submitted directly to Columbia from the applicant’s prior institution(s)’ Registrar Office. Please note that incoming students for the fall 2019 semester will be contacted with specific instructions on electronic submission from prior institution(s) for receipt of these documents. Only if a prior academic institution is unable to submit certified and secure online official transcripts, an official transcript in a sealed envelope must be sent directly from that institution’s Registrar Office to Columbia. Columbia will use its verification vendor to verify the applicant’s degree and transcript with the prior academic institutions and/or the relevant country’s Ministry of Education. Applicants will be asked to consent to participate in this verification process by submitting an authorization and release form. Portfolio A digital portfolio is required for admission to the M. ARCH, M.S. AAD, M.S. AUD, M.S. CDP, and M.S. CCCP programs. The digital portfolio should be in a single PDF document, 20 PDF pages or less (including the cover pages and table of contents, if applicable), and should not exceed 32 MB. The digital portfolio should be optimized for viewing on a standard size computer screen. Digital portfolios must be uploaded at the time the application is submitted. Portfolios should contain reproductions of original drawings, prints, graphic design, or sculpture. Resumé/CV Resumes or CVs are required for all degree applicants and CVs are required for Visiting Scholar applicants. TOEFL All applicants whose native language is not English must submit TOEFL scores (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture applicants). At this time there is no minimum TOEFL score required for admission. International students who have successfully completed two years of study in an English-speaking institution may waive the TOEFL exam requirement provided they can submit relevant transcripts. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164, Dept. Code 12. TOEFL scores are valid for two years after the test date. 2021-2022 Admissions TOEFL Alternatives Columbia GSAPP will accept IELTS and Duolingo test results as alternatives to TOEFL scores on applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Application Status Prospective students are strongly encouraged to review application policies and procedures before submitting an online application. The GSAPP only accepts applications online. Applicants may check the status of their application after submission by logging into their account with their email address and password and reviewing the status page. Apply M.S. Architecture and Urban Design Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: JANUARY 15, 2022 The M.S. AUD program is a second/post-professional degree program for students interested in exploring urban design. All applicants must have a first professional degree, B.Arch, M.Arch, Bachelor of Landscape Architecture, or Master of Landscape Architecture degree (5 years, eligible for licensure) by the time they start the M.S.AUD program. Application Steps 1. Online Application 2. Letters of Recommendation 3. Personal Statement 4. Resumé/CV 5. Transcripts 6. Portfolio 7. TOEFL 8. Application Status Online Application Create and complete an online application. A fee of $75 (payable by Visa or MasterCard) is due at the time of application submission. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation are required for all degree program applicants. GSAPP does not have a special form for letters of recommendation. Recommenders may scan and upload recommendation letters to the online application. Letters received directly from applicants will not be accepted. Letters of recommendation are due by the application deadline. Personal Statement A personal statement is required for admission to each program (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture). In approximately 500 words, describe your background, your past work in your intended field of study and your plans for graduate study and a professional career. Resumé/CV Resumes or CVs are required for all degree applicants and CVs are required for Visiting Scholar applicants. Transcripts An academic transcript/record from each university attended and credit earned is required for all applicants. All transcripts must be received by the application deadline. Applicants should upload a digital copy or scan of their transcript/s to the online application. We allow digital copies of transcripts for review purposes only. Please note that the applicant may upload unofficial transcripts at the start of the application process. Once an applicant has been admitted and has indicated acceptance of our offer of admission, certified and secure online official transcripts must be submitted directly to Columbia from the applicant’s prior institution(s)’ Registrar Office. Please note that incoming students for the fall 2019 semester will be contacted with specific instructions on electronic submission from prior institution(s) for receipt of these documents. Only if a prior academic institution is unable to submit certified and secure online official transcripts, an official transcript in a sealed envelope must be sent directly from that institution’s Registrar Office to Columbia. Columbia will use its verification vendor to verify the applicant’s degree and transcript with the prior academic institutions and/or the relevant country’s Ministry of Education. Applicants will be asked to consent to participate in this verification process by submitting an authorization and release form. Portfolio A digital portfolio is required for admission to the M. ARCH, M.S. AAD, M.S. AUD, M.S. CDP, and M.S. CCCP programs. The digital portfolio should be in a single PDF document, 20 PDF pages or less (including the cover pages and table of contents, if applicable), and should not exceed 32 MB. The digital portfolio should be optimized for viewing on a standard size computer screen. Digital portfolios must be uploaded at the time the application is submitted. Portfolios should contain reproductions of original drawings, prints, graphic design, or sculpture. TOEFL All applicants whose native language is not English must submit TOEFL scores (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture applicants). At this time there is no minimum TOEFL score required for admission. International students who have successfully completed two years of study in an English-speaking institution may waive the TOEFL exam requirement provided they can submit relevant transcripts. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164, Dept. Code 12. TOEFL scores are valid for two years after the test date. 2021-2022 Admissions TOEFL Alternatives Columbia GSAPP will accept IELTS and Duolingo test results as alternatives to TOEFL scores on applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Application Status Prospective students are strongly encouraged to review application policies and procedures before submitting an online application. The GSAPP only accepts applications online. Applicants may check the status of their application after submission by logging into their account with their email address and password and reviewing the status page. Apply M.S. Computational Design Practices Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: JANUARY 15, 2022 The M.S. CDP program is open to both pre- and post-professional students, and encourages applications from a range of backgrounds. All applicants must have an undergraduate degree from an accredited college or university by the time they start the M.S. CDP program. Application Steps 1. Online Application 2. Letters of Recommendation 3. Personal Statement 4. Transcripts 5. Portfolio M.S. CDP 6. TOEFL 7. Resumé/CV 8. Application Status Online Application Create and complete an online application. A fee of $75 (payable by Visa or MasterCard) is due at the time of application submission. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation are required for all degree program applicants. GSAPP does not have a special form for letters of recommendation. Recommenders may scan and upload recommendation letters to the online application. Letters received directly from applicants will not be accepted. Letters of recommendation are due by the application deadline. Personal Statement A personal statement is required for admission to each program (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture). In approximately 500 words, describe your background, your past work in your intended field of study and your plans for graduate study and a professional career. Transcripts An academic transcript/record from each university attended and credit earned is required for all applicants. All transcripts must be received by the application deadline. Applicants should upload a digital copy or scan of their transcript/s to the online application. We allow digital copies of transcripts for review purposes only. Please note that the applicant may upload unofficial transcripts at the start of the application process. Once an applicant has been admitted and has indicated acceptance of our offer of admission, certified and secure online official transcripts must be submitted directly to Columbia from the applicant’s prior institution(s)’ Registrar Office. Please note that incoming students for the fall 2019 semester will be contacted with specific instructions on electronic submission from prior institution(s) for receipt of these documents. Only if a prior academic institution is unable to submit certified and secure online official transcripts, an official transcript in a sealed envelope must be sent directly from that institution’s Registrar Office to Columbia. Columbia will use its verification vendor to verify the applicant’s degree and transcript with the prior academic institutions and/or the relevant country’s Ministry of Education. Applicants will be asked to consent to participate in this verification process by submitting an authorization and release form. Portfolio M.S. CDP A digital portfolio is required for admission to the M.S. CDP program. The digital portfolio should be in a single PDF document, 20 PDF pages or less (including the cover pages and table of contents, if applicable), and should not exceed 32 MB. The digital portfolio should be optimized for viewing on a standard size computer screen. Digital portfolios must be uploaded at the time the application is submitted. Portfolios should contain reproductions of original drawings, prints, graphic design, or sculpture. The M.S. CDP portfolio can be architectural design, computational design or multi-media, and include text. TOEFL All applicants whose native language is not English must submit TOEFL scores (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture applicants). At this time there is no minimum TOEFL score required for admission. International students who have successfully completed two years of study in an English-speaking institution may waive the TOEFL exam requirement provided they can submit relevant transcripts. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164, Dept. Code 12. TOEFL scores are valid for two years after the test date. 2021-2022 Admissions TOEFL Alternatives Columbia GSAPP will accept IELTS and Duolingo test results as alternatives to TOEFL scores on applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Resumé/CV Resumes or CVs are required for all degree applicants and CVs are required for Visiting Scholar applicants. Application Status Prospective students are strongly encouraged to review application policies and procedures before submitting an online application. The GSAPP only accepts applications online. Applicants may check the status of their application after submission by logging into their account with their email address and password and reviewing the status page. Apply M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: JANUARY 15, 2022 The M.S. CCCP program applicants must have a minimum of a four-year bachelor degree or equivalent from an accredited college or university by the time they start the M.S. CCCP program, including no less than 4 classes in architecture, architectural history, or a related form of aesthetic or cultural practice. Applicants who do not hold a B.Arch or M.Arch degree or the equivalent should demonstrate a substantive interest in architecture and/or urbanism through providing evidence of work in history, theory, criticism, research, design, editing, events-coordination, visualization, exhibition work, or curatorial practice. Visual acuity and interest in undertaking independent research and original projects are crucial for all applicants and the submission of a portfolio of writing or visual material is intended to provide the admissions committee with evidence of an applicant’s areas of interest and/or skills as well as preparation in the field he or she intents to pursue. It is not, however, necessary to have extensive experience in order to be admitted, but in the absence of such a background it is very important that the character and strengths of a prospective student’s work and research interests are documented and conveyed. Application Steps 1. Online Application 2. Letters of Recommendation 3. Personal Statement 4. Transcripts 5. Portfolio M.S. CCCP 6. Resumé/CV 7. GRE 8. TOEFL 9. Dual Degree Option 10. Application Status Online Application Create and complete an online application. A fee of $75 (payable by Visa or MasterCard) is due at the time of application submission. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation are required for all degree program applicants. GSAPP does not have a special form for letters of recommendation. Recommenders may scan and upload recommendation letters to the online application. Letters received directly from applicants will not be accepted. Letters of recommendation are due by the application deadline. Personal Statement A personal statement is required for admission to each program (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture). In approximately 500 words, describe your background, your past work in your intended field of study and your plans for graduate study and a professional career. Transcripts An academic transcript/record from each university attended and credit earned is required for all applicants. All transcripts must be received by the application deadline. Applicants should upload a digital copy or scan of their transcript/s to the online application. We allow digital copies of transcripts for review purposes only. Please note that the applicant may upload unofficial transcripts at the start of the application process. Once an applicant has been admitted and has indicated acceptance of our offer of admission, certified and secure online official transcripts must be submitted directly to Columbia from the applicant’s prior institution(s)’ Registrar Office. Please note that incoming students for the fall 2019 semester will be contacted with specific instructions on electronic submission from prior institution(s) for receipt of these documents. Only if a prior academic institution is unable to submit certified and secure online official transcripts, an official transcript in a sealed envelope must be sent directly from that institution’s Registrar Office to Columbia. Columbia will use its verification vendor to verify the applicant’s degree and transcript with the prior academic institutions and/or the relevant country’s Ministry of Education. Applicants will be asked to consent to participate in this verification process by submitting an authorization and release form. Portfolio M.S. CCCP A digital portfolio is required for admission to the M.S. CCCP program. The digital portfolio should be in a single PDF document, 20 PDF pages or less (including the cover pages and table of contents, if applicable), and should not exceed 32 MB. The digital portfolio should be optimized for viewing on a standard size computer screen. Digital portfolios must be uploaded at the time the application is submitted. Portfolios should contain reproductions of original drawings, prints, graphic design, or sculpture. M.S. CCCP applicants have the option of submitting writing and/or visual material to fulfill the portfolio requirement. Resumé/CV Resumes or CVs are required for all degree applicants and CVs are required for Visiting Scholar applicants. GRE 2021-2022 Admissions GRE Waiver Columbia GSAPP is waiving the GRE requirement on master’s degree program applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Applicants who have prior score results may submit them as part of the MARCH, MSCCCP, MSHP, MSRED, and MSUP application. GRE scores are valid for five years after the test date. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164. GRE scores are valid for five years after the test date. At this time there is no minimum required GRE score for admission. TOEFL All applicants whose native language is not English must submit TOEFL scores (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture applicants). At this time there is no minimum TOEFL score required for admission. International students who have successfully completed two years of study in an English-speaking institution may waive the TOEFL exam requirement provided they can submit relevant transcripts. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164, Dept. Code 12. TOEFL scores are valid for two years after the test date. 2021-2022 Admissions TOEFL Alternatives Columbia GSAPP will accept IELTS and Duolingo test results as alternatives to TOEFL scores on applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Dual Degree Option The following programs are approved for dual degree within GSAPP: - M. ARCH & M.S. CCCP - M. ARCH & M.S. UP - M. ARCH & M.S. HP - M. ARCH & M.S. RED - M.S. UP & M.S. HP - M.S. UP & M.S. RED - M.S. HP & M.S. RED The following programs are approved for dual degree with other schools at Columbia: - M.S. UP & Master of Business Administration (with the Business School) - M.S. UP & Juris Doctor (with the School of Law) - M.S. UP & Master of Science in Social Work (with the School of Social Work - M.S. UP & Master of Science in Public Health (with the Mailman School of Public Health) - M.S. UP & Master of International Affairs (with the School of International and Public Affairs) Program requirements, including suggested course sequences can be found here. Application Status Prospective students are strongly encouraged to review application policies and procedures before submitting an online application. The GSAPP only accepts applications online. Applicants may check the status of their application after submission by logging into their account with their email address and password and reviewing the status page. Apply M.S. Historic Preservation Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: JANUARY 15, 2022 The M.S. HP program is multidisciplinary in nature and expects all students to engage in preservation in depth from many perspectives. Applicants are expected to demonstrate a commitment to historic preservation as a profession and students should have a basic knowledge of the history of architecture. All applicants must have an undergraduate degree from an accredited college or university by the time they start the M.S. HP program. Part-time Option Columbia GSAPP now offers a part-time option for the MS in Historic Preservation degree. Specifically designed for active practitioners in the field who wish to maintain professional positions while studying, this option is based on the same academic requirements and allow students to complete a MSHP degree over the course of four years (eight semesters) instead of two years (four semesters) of full-time study. Please see the application requirements below, and select the part-time option within the online application form. Application Steps 1. Online Application 2. Letters of Recommendation 3. Personal Statement 4. Transcripts 5. Resumé/CV 6. GRE 7. TOEFL 8. Dual Degree Option 9. Application Status Online Application Create and complete an online application. A fee of $75 (payable by Visa or MasterCard) is due at the time of application submission. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation are required for all degree program applicants. GSAPP does not have a special form for letters of recommendation. Recommenders may scan and upload recommendation letters to the online application. Letters received directly from applicants will not be accepted. Letters of recommendation are due by the application deadline. Personal Statement A personal statement is required for admission to each program (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture). In approximately 500 words, describe your background, your past work in your intended field of study and your plans for graduate study and a professional career. Transcripts An academic transcript/record from each university attended and credit earned is required for all applicants. All transcripts must be received by the application deadline. Applicants should upload a digital copy or scan of their transcript/s to the online application. We allow digital copies of transcripts for review purposes only. Please note that the applicant may upload unofficial transcripts at the start of the application process. Once an applicant has been admitted and has indicated acceptance of our offer of admission, certified and secure online official transcripts must be submitted directly to Columbia from the applicant’s prior institution(s)’ Registrar Office. Please note that incoming students for the fall 2019 semester will be contacted with specific instructions on electronic submission from prior institution(s) for receipt of these documents. Only if a prior academic institution is unable to submit certified and secure online official transcripts, an official transcript in a sealed envelope must be sent directly from that institution’s Registrar Office to Columbia. Columbia will use its verification vendor to verify the applicant’s degree and transcript with the prior academic institutions and/or the relevant country’s Ministry of Education. Applicants will be asked to consent to participate in this verification process by submitting an authorization and release form. Resumé/CV Resumes or CVs are required for all degree applicants and CVs are required for Visiting Scholar applicants. GRE 2021-2022 Admissions GRE Waiver Columbia GSAPP is waiving the GRE requirement on master’s degree program applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Applicants who have prior score results may submit them as part of the MARCH, MSCCCP, MSHP, MSRED, and MSUP application. GRE scores are valid for five years after the test date. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164. GRE scores are valid for five years after the test date. At this time there is no minimum required GRE score for admission. TOEFL All applicants whose native language is not English must submit TOEFL scores (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture applicants). At this time there is no minimum TOEFL score required for admission. International students who have successfully completed two years of study in an English-speaking institution may waive the TOEFL exam requirement provided they can submit relevant transcripts. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164, Dept. Code 12. TOEFL scores are valid for two years after the test date. 2021-2022 Admissions TOEFL Alternatives Columbia GSAPP will accept IELTS and Duolingo test results as alternatives to TOEFL scores on applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Dual Degree Option The following programs are approved for dual degree within GSAPP: - M. ARCH & M.S. CCCP - M. ARCH & M.S. UP - M. ARCH & M.S. HP - M. ARCH & M.S. RED - M.S. UP & M.S. HP - M.S. UP & M.S. RED - M.S. HP & M.S. RED The following programs are approved for dual degree with other schools at Columbia: - M.S. UP & Master of Business Administration (with the Business School) - M.S. UP & Juris Doctor (with the School of Law) - M.S. UP & Master of Science in Social Work (with the School of Social Work - M.S. UP & Master of Science in Public Health (with the Mailman School of Public Health) - M.S. UP & Master of International Affairs (with the School of International and Public Affairs) Program requirements, including suggested course sequences can be found here. Application Status Prospective students are strongly encouraged to review application policies and procedures before submitting an online application. The GSAPP only accepts applications online. Applicants may check the status of their application after submission by logging into their account with their email address and password and reviewing the status page. Apply M.S. Real Estate Development Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: JANUARY 15, 2022 All applicants must have an undergraduate degree from an accredited college or university by the time they start the M.S. RED program. M.S. RED applicants may hold undergraduate and graduate degrees in a wide range of fields. While graduate and professional academic preparation in development-related disciplines, such as architecture, finance, law, urban design, historic preservation, civil engineering, or urban planning is highly desirable, it is not essential for admission to the program. Application Steps 1. Online Application 2. Letters of Recommendation 3. Personal Statement 4. Transcripts 5. Resumé/CV 6. GRE/GMAT 7. TOEFL 8. Dual Degree Option 9. Application Status Online Application Create and complete an online application. A fee of $75 (payable by Visa or MasterCard) is due at the time of application submission. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation are required for all degree program applicants. GSAPP does not have a special form for letters of recommendation. Recommenders may scan and upload recommendation letters to the online application. Letters received directly from applicants will not be accepted. Letters of recommendation are due by the application deadline. Personal Statement A personal statement is required for admission to each program (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture). In approximately 500 words, describe your background, your past work in your intended field of study and your plans for graduate study and a professional career. Transcripts An academic transcript/record from each university attended and credit earned is required for all applicants. All transcripts must be received by the application deadline. Applicants should upload a digital copy or scan of their transcript/s to the online application. We allow digital copies of transcripts for review purposes only. Please note that the applicant may upload unofficial transcripts at the start of the application process. Once an applicant has been admitted and has indicated acceptance of our offer of admission, certified and secure online official transcripts must be submitted directly to Columbia from the applicant’s prior institution(s)’ Registrar Office. Please note that incoming students for the fall 2019 semester will be contacted with specific instructions on electronic submission from prior institution(s) for receipt of these documents. Only if a prior academic institution is unable to submit certified and secure online official transcripts, an official transcript in a sealed envelope must be sent directly from that institution’s Registrar Office to Columbia. Columbia will use its verification vendor to verify the applicant’s degree and transcript with the prior academic institutions and/or the relevant country’s Ministry of Education. Applicants will be asked to consent to participate in this verification process by submitting an authorization and release form. Resumé/CV Resumes or CVs are required for all degree applicants and CVs are required for Visiting Scholar applicants. GRE/GMAT 2021-2022 Admissions GRE/GMAT Waiver Columbia GSAPP is waiving the GRE/GMAT requirement on master’s degree program applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Applicants who have prior score results may submit them as part of their MSRED application. GRE scores are valid for five years after the test date. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164. GRE scores are valid for five years after the test date. At this time there is no minimum required GRE score for admission. Applicants to the MSRED program may submit GMAT scores in lieu of GRE scores. At this time there is no minimum required GMAT score for admission. Applicants should contact GMAC to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code: QF8-73-53. GMAT scores are valid for five years after the test date. TOEFL All applicants whose native language is not English must submit TOEFL scores (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture applicants). At this time there is no minimum TOEFL score required for admission. International students who have successfully completed two years of study in an English-speaking institution may waive the TOEFL exam requirement provided they can submit relevant transcripts. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164, Dept. Code 12. TOEFL scores are valid for two years after the test date. 2021-2022 Admissions TOEFL Alternatives Columbia GSAPP will accept IELTS and Duolingo test results as alternatives to TOEFL scores on applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Dual Degree Option The following programs are approved for dual degree within GSAPP: - M. ARCH & M.S. CCCP - M. ARCH & M.S. UP - M. ARCH & M.S. HP - M. ARCH & M.S. RED - M.S. UP & M.S. HP - M.S. UP & M.S. RED - M.S. HP & M.S. RED The following programs are approved for dual degree with other schools at Columbia: - M.S. UP & Master of Business Administration (with the Business School) - M.S. UP & Juris Doctor (with the School of Law) - M.S. UP & Master of Science in Social Work (with the School of Social Work - M.S. UP & Master of Science in Public Health (with the Mailman School of Public Health) - M.S. UP & Master of International Affairs (with the School of International and Public Affairs) Program requirements, including suggested course sequences can be found here. Application Status Prospective students are strongly encouraged to review application policies and procedures before submitting an online application. The GSAPP only accepts applications online. Applicants may check the status of their application after submission by logging into their account with their email address and password and reviewing the status page. Apply M.S. Urban Planning Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: JANUARY 15, 2022 The M.S. UP program prepares students from diverse academic backgrounds for careers as professional planners. Applicants typically, but not exclusively, have majored in architecture, engineering, sociology, political science, geography, economics, or urban studies; many also come from backgrounds in the humanities and pure sciences. The admissions committee reviews all applicants comprehensively, considering their undergraduate academic achievements, personal statement, and related experiences. All applicants must have an undergraduate degree from an accredited college or university by the time they start the M.S. UP program. Once a member of the GSAPP Admissions Office completes a preliminary review, the M.S. in Urban Planning program office assigns each application to three reviewers including a minimum of two full-time Urban Planning faculty members. The program seeks applicants with strong critical thinking, analytical, and writing skills. The application deadline is January 15, 2021 for entry in the Fall 2021 semester, and the GSAPP Admissions Office notifies applicants with decisions in March, 2021. Please note that deadlines for dual degree programs outside of GSAPP are set by their respective schools. Separate applications need to be submitted to each program and applicants need to be admitted by both schools to pursue a dual-degree program. Please consult each respective school’s website for details. Part-time Option Columbia GSAPP now offers a part-time option for the MS in Urban Planning degree. Specifically designed for active practitioners in the field who wish to maintain professional positions while studying, this option is based on the same academic requirements and allow students to complete a MSUP degree over the course of four years (eight semesters) instead of two years (four semesters) of full-time study. Please see the application requirements below, and select the part-time option within the online application form. Peer Support GSAPP’s Urban Planning program is committed to social justice and recognizes the power of education equity in creating a better future. The MSUP Program Council is proud to offer volunteer support from the current student body to assist with the applications of prospective students who have historically been underrepresented at GSAPP and higher education more broadly. Student volunteers from the Urban Planning program will provide anonymous feedback and general suggestions for the overall application, personal statement and/or writing samples on a first-come first-served basis. Learn more about this resource and how to submit your materials prior to January 5th on the Peer Application Support webpage. Application Steps 1. Online Application 2. Letters of Recommendation 3. Personal Statement MSUP 4. Transcripts 5. Resumé/CV 6. GRE 7. TOEFL 8. Dual Degree Option 9. Application Status Online Application Create and complete an online application. A fee of $75 (payable by Visa or MasterCard) is due at the time of application submission. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation are required for all degree program applicants. GSAPP does not have a special form for letters of recommendation. Recommenders may scan and upload recommendation letters to the online application. Letters received directly from applicants will not be accepted. Letters of recommendation are due by the application deadline. Personal Statement MSUP A personal statement is required for admission to the MSUP program, approximately 800 words in length. Please describe your academic background, your motivation for studying urban planning, your past work and relevant experience, and your plans for graduate study and a professional career. In addition, please describe your experience with analytical reasoning including (but not limited to) statistics, GIS, data analytics, or qualitative methods. Submitting a work sample (a writing sample; analysis or visualization example) of no more than 1,500 words is optional, but encouraged. Transcripts An academic transcript/record from each university attended and credit earned is required for all applicants. All transcripts must be received by the application deadline. Applicants should upload a digital copy or scan of their transcript/s to the online application. We allow digital copies of transcripts for review purposes only. Please note that the applicant may upload unofficial transcripts at the start of the application process. Once an applicant has been admitted and has indicated acceptance of our offer of admission, certified and secure online official transcripts must be submitted directly to Columbia from the applicant’s prior institution(s)’ Registrar Office. Please note that incoming students for the fall 2019 semester will be contacted with specific instructions on electronic submission from prior institution(s) for receipt of these documents. Only if a prior academic institution is unable to submit certified and secure online official transcripts, an official transcript in a sealed envelope must be sent directly from that institution’s Registrar Office to Columbia. Columbia will use its verification vendor to verify the applicant’s degree and transcript with the prior academic institutions and/or the relevant country’s Ministry of Education. Applicants will be asked to consent to participate in this verification process by submitting an authorization and release form. Resumé/CV Resumes or CVs are required for all degree applicants and CVs are required for Visiting Scholar applicants. GRE 2021-2022 Admissions GRE Waiver Columbia GSAPP is waiving the GRE requirement on master’s degree program applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Applicants who have prior score results may submit them as part of the MARCH, MSCCCP, MSHP, MSRED, and MSUP application. GRE scores are valid for five years after the test date. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164. GRE scores are valid for five years after the test date. At this time there is no minimum required GRE score for admission. TOEFL All applicants whose native language is not English must submit TOEFL scores (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture applicants). At this time there is no minimum TOEFL score required for admission. International students who have successfully completed two years of study in an English-speaking institution may waive the TOEFL exam requirement provided they can submit relevant transcripts. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164, Dept. Code 12. TOEFL scores are valid for two years after the test date. 2021-2022 Admissions TOEFL Alternatives Columbia GSAPP will accept IELTS and Duolingo test results as alternatives to TOEFL scores on applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Dual Degree Option The following programs are approved for dual degree within GSAPP: - M. ARCH & M.S. CCCP - M. ARCH & M.S. UP - M. ARCH & M.S. HP - M. ARCH & M.S. RED - M.S. UP & M.S. HP - M.S. UP & M.S. RED - M.S. HP & M.S. RED The following programs are approved for dual degree with other schools at Columbia: - M.S. UP & Master of Business Administration (with the Business School) - M.S. UP & Juris Doctor (with the School of Law) - M.S. UP & Master of Science in Social Work (with the School of Social Work - M.S. UP & Master of Science in Public Health (with the Mailman School of Public Health) - M.S. UP & Master of International Affairs (with the School of International and Public Affairs) Program requirements, including suggested course sequences can be found here. Application Status Prospective students are strongly encouraged to review application policies and procedures before submitting an online application. The GSAPP only accepts applications online. Applicants may check the status of their application after submission by logging into their account with their email address and password and reviewing the status page. Apply Ph.D. in Architecture Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: JANUARY 4, 2022 The Architecture Ph.D. Program is administered by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). All application instructions, deadlines and procedures are available on the GSAS website. Eligibility for admission to the program is generally limited to students holding a Master of Architecture degree or a five-year Bachelor of Architecture degree plus a Master’s degree (or equivalent) in the field of architectural history and theory. Under certain circumstances, students who hold a Master’s degree or equivalent in another field are considered for admission. All prospective students must apply using the online application. Printed applications are not available. A complete application includes: Transcripts of all previous post-secondary education A statement of academic purpose A curriculum vitae or résumé Three letters of recommendation from academic sources For international students: Examination scores to fulfill the English Proficiency Requirement A sample of scholarly writing, 30 pages Payment of the application fee Please contact the GSAS with all admissions questions. For program questions, applicants may reach out to PhD committee faculty regarding particular research interests. Apply Ph.D. in Historic Preservation Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: JANUARY 4, 2022 The Historic Preservation Ph.D. Program is administered by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). All application instructions, deadlines and procedures are available on the GSAS page. Eligibility for admission to the program is generally limited to students holding a Master of Historic Preservation degree. Under certain circumstances, students who hold a Master’s degree or equivalent in another field are considered for admission. All prospective students must apply using the online application. Printed applications are not available. A complete application includes: Transcripts of all previous post-secondary education A statement of academic purpose A curriculum vitae or résumé Three letters of recommendation from academic sources GRE scores are waived for 2022 admissions For international students: Examination scores to fulfill the English Proficiency Requirement A sample of scholarly writing, 30 pages Payment of the application fee Please contact the GSAS with all admissions questions. For program questions, applicants may reach out to PhD committee faculty regarding particular research interests. This program is not accepting applications for 2021 Apply Ph.D. in Urban Planning Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: DECEMBER 16, 2021 The Urban Planning Ph.D. Program is administered by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). All application instructions, deadlines and procedures are available on the GSAS page. The applicant must hold a master’s degree in urban planning or in a related discipline and have excellent academic credentials (a grade average of B+ or better). In addition, the applicant is required to have completed at least 90 points of undergraduate liberal arts courses in the social sciences, humanities or natural sciences, and the equivalent of the core courses provided in the master’s-level curriculum in the Division of Urban Planning, Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation. Fellowships are awarded in recognition of academic achievement and in expectation of scholarly success. Graduate fellowships include teaching and research assistantships. All prospective students must apply using the online application. Printed applications are not available. A complete application includes: Transcripts of all previous post-secondary education A statement of academic purpose A curriculum vitae or résumé Three letters of recommendation from academic sources GRE scores are waived for 2022 admissions For international students: Examination scores to fulfill the English Proficiency Requirement A sample of scholarly writing, 8-10 pages Payment of the application fee Please contact the GSAS with all admissions questions. For program questions, applicants should reach out to the Chair of the PhD sub-committee. Apply New York / Paris Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: Rolling Admission The New York/Paris program is designed for students who have completed their sophomore year at an accredited college or university, or students who have received a bachelor’s degree. Previous study in architecture, planning, or preservation is not required. Undergraduate students must have the written support of their home institution. Application Steps 1. Online Application 2. Personal Statement 3. Letter of Recommendation 4. Transcripts 5. TOEFL 6. Application Status Online Application Create and complete an online application. A fee of $75 (payable by Visa or MasterCard) is due at the time of application submission. Personal Statement A personal statement is required for admission to each program (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture). In approximately 500 words, describe your background, your past work in your intended field of study and your plans for graduate study and a professional career. Letter of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required for New York/Paris program applicants and Visiting Scholars. GSAPP does not have a special form for letters of recommendation. Recommenders may scan and upload recommendation letters to the online application. Letters received directly from applicants will not be accepted. Letters of recommendation are due by the application deadline. Transcripts An academic transcript/record from each university attended and credit earned is required for all applicants. All transcripts must be received by the application deadline. Applicants should upload a digital copy or scan of their transcript/s to the online application. We allow digital copies of transcripts for review purposes only. Please note that the applicant may upload unofficial transcripts at the start of the application process. Once an applicant has been admitted and has indicated acceptance of our offer of admission, certified and secure online official transcripts must be submitted directly to Columbia from the applicant’s prior institution(s)’ Registrar Office. Please note that incoming students for the fall 2019 semester will be contacted with specific instructions on electronic submission from prior institution(s) for receipt of these documents. Only if a prior academic institution is unable to submit certified and secure online official transcripts, an official transcript in a sealed envelope must be sent directly from that institution’s Registrar Office to Columbia. Columbia will use its verification vendor to verify the applicant’s degree and transcript with the prior academic institutions and/or the relevant country’s Ministry of Education. Applicants will be asked to consent to participate in this verification process by submitting an authorization and release form. TOEFL All applicants whose native language is not English must submit TOEFL scores (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture applicants). At this time there is no minimum TOEFL score required for admission. International students who have successfully completed two years of study in an English-speaking institution may waive the TOEFL exam requirement provided they can submit relevant transcripts. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164, Dept. Code 12. TOEFL scores are valid for two years after the test date. 2021-2022 Admissions TOEFL Alternatives Columbia GSAPP will accept IELTS and Duolingo test results as alternatives to TOEFL scores on applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Application Status Prospective students are strongly encouraged to review application policies and procedures before submitting an online application. The GSAPP only accepts applications online. Applicants may check the status of their application after submission by logging into their account with their email address and password and reviewing the status page. Apply Intro to Architecture Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: Rolling Admission Introduction to Architecture is a 5-week, 3-point intensive course (non-degree, not for credit towards a degree, and not eligible for full-time student status). There are two studio options: afternoon (2-5pm) or evening (6-9pm, for those unavailable due to work commitments during the day). Participants have the option of choosing a focus on Architecture or Urban Planning, which may be selected in the application form. Please note that the Summer 2022 session will be held both online and in-person, allowing students to choose their preferred mode of study. Admitted students are invited to apply to the Hilyard Robinson Scholars Program. Recipients receive full tuition scholarships for GSAPP’s Intro to Architecture summer program. Applicants should have completed an undergraduate degree or currently be enrolled at an undergraduate institution. Application Steps 1. Online Application 2. Transcripts 3. Optional Recommendation 4. Application Status Online Application Create and complete an online application. A fee of $75 (payable by Visa or MasterCard) is due at the time of application submission. Transcripts An academic transcript/record from each university attended and credit earned is required for all applicants. All transcripts must be received by the application deadline. Applicants should upload a digital copy or scan of their transcript/s to the online application. We allow digital copies of transcripts for review purposes only. Please note that the applicant may upload unofficial transcripts at the start of the application process. Once an applicant has been admitted and has indicated acceptance of our offer of admission, certified and secure online official transcripts must be submitted directly to Columbia from the applicant’s prior institution(s)’ Registrar Office. Please note that incoming students for the fall 2019 semester will be contacted with specific instructions on electronic submission from prior institution(s) for receipt of these documents. Only if a prior academic institution is unable to submit certified and secure online official transcripts, an official transcript in a sealed envelope must be sent directly from that institution’s Registrar Office to Columbia. Columbia will use its verification vendor to verify the applicant’s degree and transcript with the prior academic institutions and/or the relevant country’s Ministry of Education. Applicants will be asked to consent to participate in this verification process by submitting an authorization and release form. Optional Recommendation Non-degree program applicants to Introduction to Architecture and Special Students have the option to include letters of recommendation, but they are not required. GSAPP does not have a special form for letters of recommendation. Recommenders may scan and upload recommendation letters to the online application. Letters received directly from applicants will not be accepted. Application Status Prospective students are strongly encouraged to review application policies and procedures before submitting an online application. The GSAPP only accepts applications online. Applicants may check the status of their application after submission by logging into their account with their email address and password and reviewing the status page. Apply Visiting Scholar Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: Rolling Admission Persons who wish to use the facilities of the University to pursue their own research may be named visiting scholars. In order to be eligible for visiting scholar status, applicants must be currently affiliated with an accredited academic institution. “Visiting scholar” is a courtesy title and does not signify a formal association with the University. Individuals named to these titles may not claim a University affiliation for the purpose of applying for grants and contracts and should not represent themselves in their publication and correspondence as having a University affiliation. Visiting Scholars are not eligible to take courses at GSAPP for credit. We only accept a limited number of Visiting Scholars and are unable to provide an invitation letter until an applicant has submitted an online application and has been approved by the Provost’s office. Application Steps 1. Online Application 2. Personal Statement 3. Letter of Recommendation 4. Transcripts 5. Resumé/CV 6. TOEFL 7. Application Status Online Application Create and complete an online application. A fee of $75 (payable by Visa or MasterCard) is due at the time of application submission. Personal Statement A personal statement is required for admission to each program (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture). In approximately 500 words, describe your background, your past work in your intended field of study and your plans for graduate study and a professional career. Letter of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required for New York/Paris program applicants and Visiting Scholars. GSAPP does not have a special form for letters of recommendation. Recommenders may scan and upload recommendation letters to the online application. Letters received directly from applicants will not be accepted. Letters of recommendation are due by the application deadline. Transcripts An academic transcript/record from each university attended and credit earned is required for all applicants. All transcripts must be received by the application deadline. Applicants should upload a digital copy or scan of their transcript/s to the online application. We allow digital copies of transcripts for review purposes only. Please note that the applicant may upload unofficial transcripts at the start of the application process. Once an applicant has been admitted and has indicated acceptance of our offer of admission, certified and secure online official transcripts must be submitted directly to Columbia from the applicant’s prior institution(s)’ Registrar Office. Please note that incoming students for the fall 2019 semester will be contacted with specific instructions on electronic submission from prior institution(s) for receipt of these documents. Only if a prior academic institution is unable to submit certified and secure online official transcripts, an official transcript in a sealed envelope must be sent directly from that institution’s Registrar Office to Columbia. Columbia will use its verification vendor to verify the applicant’s degree and transcript with the prior academic institutions and/or the relevant country’s Ministry of Education. Applicants will be asked to consent to participate in this verification process by submitting an authorization and release form. Resumé/CV Resumes or CVs are required for all degree applicants and CVs are required for Visiting Scholar applicants. TOEFL All applicants whose native language is not English must submit TOEFL scores (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture applicants). At this time there is no minimum TOEFL score required for admission. International students who have successfully completed two years of study in an English-speaking institution may waive the TOEFL exam requirement provided they can submit relevant transcripts. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164, Dept. Code 12. TOEFL scores are valid for two years after the test date. 2021-2022 Admissions TOEFL Alternatives Columbia GSAPP will accept IELTS and Duolingo test results as alternatives to TOEFL scores on applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Application Status Prospective students are strongly encouraged to review application policies and procedures before submitting an online application. The GSAPP only accepts applications online. Applicants may check the status of their application after submission by logging into their account with their email address and password and reviewing the status page. Apply Special Student Program homepage Prerequisites Application Deadline: August 15 or December 1 of each year Individuals may be eligible to take courses in the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation. These students must be admitted by the Office of the Associate Dean of Admissions as Special Students (non-degree candidates). Studios and visual studies courses are not open to Special Students. Courses in the Real Estate Development program are also not open to Special Students. Lecture classes are open to Special Students with the permission of the Associate Dean of Admissions and the faculty teaching the course. Special Students receive library and computer access for the semester(s) in which they are enrolled. They receive a transcript from Columbia University with the course name and grade(s). Special Students pay the current per-point rate for degree programs for the course. If a Special Student wishes to apply for matriculation in any of the graduate degree programs at a later date, the student must submit an application for that program by the deadline. The Admissions Committee does not treat the applicant preferentially. In some cases, students who take courses as Special Students and are admitted to a degree program may be awarded advanced standing. Those who wish to apply for degree candidacy are therefore urged to do so at the earlier possible time. Application Steps 1. Online Application 2. Personal Statement 3. Transcripts 4. TOEFL 5. Optional Recommendation 6. Application Status Online Application Create and complete an online application. A fee of $75 (payable by Visa or MasterCard) is due at the time of application submission. Personal Statement A personal statement is required for admission to each program (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture). In approximately 500 words, describe your background, your past work in your intended field of study and your plans for graduate study and a professional career. Transcripts An academic transcript/record from each university attended and credit earned is required for all applicants. All transcripts must be received by the application deadline. Applicants should upload a digital copy or scan of their transcript/s to the online application. We allow digital copies of transcripts for review purposes only. Please note that the applicant may upload unofficial transcripts at the start of the application process. Once an applicant has been admitted and has indicated acceptance of our offer of admission, certified and secure online official transcripts must be submitted directly to Columbia from the applicant’s prior institution(s)’ Registrar Office. Please note that incoming students for the fall 2019 semester will be contacted with specific instructions on electronic submission from prior institution(s) for receipt of these documents. Only if a prior academic institution is unable to submit certified and secure online official transcripts, an official transcript in a sealed envelope must be sent directly from that institution’s Registrar Office to Columbia. Columbia will use its verification vendor to verify the applicant’s degree and transcript with the prior academic institutions and/or the relevant country’s Ministry of Education. Applicants will be asked to consent to participate in this verification process by submitting an authorization and release form. TOEFL All applicants whose native language is not English must submit TOEFL scores (with the exception of Introduction to Architecture applicants). At this time there is no minimum TOEFL score required for admission. International students who have successfully completed two years of study in an English-speaking institution may waive the TOEFL exam requirement provided they can submit relevant transcripts. Applicants should contact ETS to have official test scores sent to the GSAPP Admissions Office via Institution Code 2164, Dept. Code 12. TOEFL scores are valid for two years after the test date. 2021-2022 Admissions TOEFL Alternatives Columbia GSAPP will accept IELTS and Duolingo test results as alternatives to TOEFL scores on applications for 2021 and 2022 admissions cycles in recognition of limited testing availability due to the impact of COVID-19. Optional Recommendation Non-degree program applicants to Introduction to Architecture and Special Students have the option to include letters of recommendation, but they are not required. GSAPP does not have a special form for letters of recommendation. Recommenders may scan and upload recommendation letters to the online application. Letters received directly from applicants will not be accepted. Application Status Prospective students are strongly encouraged to review application policies and procedures before submitting an online application. The GSAPP only accepts applications online. Applicants may check the status of their application after submission by logging into their account with their email address and password and reviewing the status page. Apply Admissions Policies Prospective students must submit an application online to be considered for admission. Only one application per admissions period is accepted. Multiple applications to different programs will not be processed unless they are applications to an approved dual degree program. Applicants are expected to use their full legal name when completing the online application. All candidates have the opportunity to complete a GSAPP scholarship application included with the application for admission. GSAPP scholarships are based on a combination of merit and financial need. This form must be submitted through the online application. Candidates will not have access to the scholarship application once their program application has been submitted. GSAPP does not grant deferrals, nor does it conduct spring term admissions. Candidates will only be considered for the semester listed on their application. Files or materials sent during previous application periods are not saved for future applications. Those wishing to re-apply must re-submit all of the required application materials for their new application to be considered complete. Note that the applicant must submit all materials directly, not through an agent or third-party vendor, with the sole exception of submissions by the U.S. Department of State’s Fulbright Program and its three partner agencies IIE, LASPAU and AMIDEAST, and by the Danish-American Fulbright Commission (DAF), Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst (DAAD), and Vietnam Education Fund (VEF). In addition, the applicant will be required to attest to the accuracy and authenticity of all information and documents submitted to Columbia. If you have any questions about this requirement, please contact the admissions office at GSAPP. Failure to submit complete, accurate, and authentic application documents consistent with these instructions may result in denial or revocation of admission, cancellation of academic credit, suspension, expulsion, or eventual revocation of degree. Applicants may be required to assist admissions staff and faculty involved in admission reviews in the verification of all documents and statements made in documents submitted by students as part of the application review process. Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 (212) 854-3414 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Please click here to sign up for occasional emails © 2022 Columbia University / Colophon