COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Rhatigan Student Center Section Menu Rhatigan Student Center Shocker Store University Event Services Shocker Sports Grill & Lanes Shocker Bowling WSU Dining Services Hours of Operation Stop Video Learn about the Mission, Vision, and Core Values of the Rhatigan Student Center Learn More Hours of Operation Employment Opportunities RSC Building Maps Rhatigan Student Center The Rhatigan Student Center is the social hub of student life at Wichita State University. Located in the heart of the main campus, the center's dynamic slate of events and services keep the WSU community humming. Whether you're looking for a place to study, a place to hang out with friends, a place to eat, a place to shop, a place to relax -- or even a place to get a quick haircut -- the RSC is the place to be. The mission of the Rhatigan Student Center is to be a diverse composition of people, services, programs and facilities that enrich the intellectual, cultural and social well-being of the WSU student and supports the University’s mission to serve the greater public good. 2020-2021 Annual Report Text Version: 2021-2021 Annual Report Contact Information RSC Calendar Tweets by wsu_rsc RSC Departments The Shocker Store The Shocker Store is the Official Store of Wichita State University. We have the widest selection of Shocker Gear anywhere, and we offer a multitude of different textbook options for our students. One of our two campus stores is conveniently located in the RSC. University Event Services The WSU Event Services office is tasked with reserving spaces for events across the WSU Campus. Shocker Sports Grill & Lanes The Shocker Sports Grill & Lanes is home to eight bowling lanes, six billiards tables, a full grill featuring the largest menu on campus, and dozens of Tvs! It is the perefect venue to watch all of the Shocker Basketball games, host a birthday party, or have a night of family fun! Shocker Bowling The RSC is home to the most successful college bowling program in history. The program has 11 Men's National Championships, and 9 Women's National Championships, both of which lead all other schools. Other RSC Departments Human Resources Shocker Card Center WSU Info Desk RSC Engraving Lord's and Lady's Hair Salon Cadman Art Gallery WSU Dining Services Get Connected Student Engagement, Advocacy & Leadership Office of Diversity & Inclusion Student Affairs Student Government Association 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©