Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Academics People Campus About News + Events Apply Now Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Specializations Student Work People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now Portfolio Submission Portfolio Requirements Art Design Production Programming Financial Information SMU Financial Aid Guildhall Preparation Art Design Production Programming Specializations Art Creation Level Design Production Programming Student Work Independent Projects Team Game Projects Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Admissions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Academics Specializations Student Work People People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us News + Events Apply Now About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now SMU Guildhall Career Services SMU Guildhall prides itself on connecting today’s top studios with tomorrow’s top talent by providing both students and alumni professional guidance through a myriad of services. We leverage our ever-evolving network of industry partnerships to enrich opportunities for our students and alumni through lectures, workshops, career connections, portfolio reviews, and more. Professional Development Coursework Students fulfill two modules as they explore the nuances of seeking and securing one’s dream position. This professional training-ground includes resume and portfolio guidance, interview preparation, and industry guest lectures. One-on-One Counseling Students and alumni have access to meet with Guildhall’s Career Counselor and explore questions about their job search. Advice is also offered on how to optimize valuable networking opportunities. Career Portal SMU Guildhall’s internal recruiting platform, Handshake, empowers connections with the most innovative companies in the field. Students and alumni can discover tailored job and internship opportunities, connect with leaders in the industry and register for on-campus recruiting events. Furthermore, students have the ability to: · Research employers that recruit directly at SMU Guildhall · Sign up for on-campus interview schedules · Pursue mentorships with alumni and industry leaders · Schedule appointments with in-house Career Counselor · Download valuable resources specific to a career in gaming Handshake login & setup instructions: · Current Students - Visit Handshake, then select 'Southern Methodist University Sign On' to login with your Single Sign On credentials and start setting up your profile. · Alumni - Visit Handshake. If you graduated in 2013 or later, first try selecting 'Southern Methodist University Sign On' to login with your Single Sign On credentials. Otherwise, login with the email address that received a Handshake invitation. If you did not receive an invitation, contact us to ensure we have your most up-to-date contact information. · Employers - Get set up here Career Fair Guildhall’s Career Fair connects students and alumni with the industry’s top studios. Learn more about the Career Fair Alumni Networks Our alumni have captured leadership positions as artists, designers, producers and programmers at more than 250 studios around the world. This network continues to enrich the experience of both current students and alumni, as the Guildhall community aims to encourage, mentor and push one another to new heights in game development. Alumni often revisit campus to share their experiences and knowledge with students, helping to empower our rising graduates to achieve success. Game titles SMU Guildhall alumni have worked onBios of successful SMU Guildhall alumniAlumni testimonialsIndustry Partners Career Portal We're now on Handshake! Student/Alumni login Employer access Testimonials “Classes at the Guildhall taught all phases of game develop - from pitch to post-launch - and gave us perspective on how developers in other disciplines think and what challenges they face. Then, the team projects let us put that knowledge into practice. ” Joshua Black (C5 ) Lead Game Designer at Rumble Apply to SMU Guildhall SMU Guildhall Game Changers Shaped Here 3100 McFarlin Blvd., Suite 306 Dallas , Texas 75275 (214) 768-4278 © SMU Legal Disclosures Site Index Working at SMU Apply to SMU Guildhall x