Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF BUILT ENVIRONMENTS REAL ESTATE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 R E 250 Introduction to Real Estate (3) Introduction to the real estate profession focusing on the participants and processes as well as real estate decision making by buyers and sellers. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: R E 250 R E 361 Property Transactions (3) I&S Introduction to real estate transactions, standard contractual documents, the role of title insurance, and the closing process. Prerequisite: R E 250. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: R E 361 R E 363 Real Estate Development Process (3) I&S Matthew Disston Real estate development sits at the heart of the built environment, interacting with urban planners, landscape architects, architects, financiers, construction managers and end users. An understanding of the key decision making that underpins development is a vital part in understanding what is developed, where and when. Prerequisite: R E 250. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: R E 363 R E 397 Introduction to Real Estate Data Modeling (5) QSR Provides an introduction to the main data sources and analytical methods used in real estate. Covers descriptive and multivariate methods that help students organize, consolidate, analyze, and understand data used in the finance and social sciences fields more broadly. Prerequisite: R E 250. View course details in MyPlan: R E 397 R E 400 Accounting for Real Estate (3) Basics of real estate taxation, accounting, and profitability measures. Prerequisite: R E 250. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: R E 400 R E 401 Housing Markets and Policy (3/5, max. 8) I&S Aims to provide students with the tools to assess housing problems. Studies housing markets in a dynamic context, with emphasis placed on demand and supply drivers. Examines the justifications for and the basis of public sector involvement in the housing market and describe and evaluate the main policy mechanisms used such as regulation of private renting or the provision of affordable housing. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 401 R E 411 Real Estate Valuation and Appraisal (3) I&S Every property is unique, therefore the appraisal of real estate presents many challenges and has a strong influence on the financial viability of both existing buildings and the development process. General models for valuing commercial property, industrial property, and land will be introduced. The role of appraisals and different concepts of value will be examined. Prerequisite: R E 250. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 411 R E 413 Real Estate Finance and Investment (4) QSR Introductory class to real estate finance. Considers the financing of developments, investment in commercial properties as well as the residential mortgage market. Considers how real estate differs from other assets and how to analyze the attractiveness of investment opportunities. Prerequisite: R E 250. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 413 R E 416 Real Estate Economics and Market Analysis (4) Introduces students to basic elements of real estate markets studies for different uses. Includes basic steps regardless of real estate use, followed by analysis of data sources, public policy issues affecting cities and their economy, and resources available to analyze different market patterns. Prerequisite: R E 250. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 416 R E 431 Real Estate Portfolio Management (4) QSR Focuses on the development and implementation of active and passive portfolio management strategies for institutional quality real estate investment portfolios. Modern portfolio theory and other tools are used to establish real estate allocation in a mixed-asset context; and to manage real estate portfolios among investment and financial structures spanning private/public, equity/debt, property type and geographic/economic regions. Prerequisite: R E 250 and R E 413. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 431 R E 459 Risk and Reward in Sustainable Development (3) I&S Focuses on the intersection of green, high performing buildings and the law. Students learn to identify and understand the risks and challenges presented by high performing buildings, and analyze frameworks and strategies to manage and overcome these challenges. Prerequisite: R E 250. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 459 R E 464 Affordable Housing (4) I&S, DIV Rebecca J. Walter Introduction to the field of affordable housing. Addresses issues inherent in planning, finance, design, construction, and management of affordable housing in the United States. Examines the role of federal, state, local, non-profit, and private sector agencies and participants. Prerequisite: R E 250. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: R E 464 R E 466 Advanced Housing Studies (4) I&S, DIV Gregg Colburn Advanced survey of housing. Students select a housing-related topic that serves as the basis of a quarter-long project. Also, students read key texts and articles on a range of housing-related topics and participate in seminar discussions on these readings. Prerequisite: R E 250; R E 401; and R E 464. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: R E 466 R E 480 Professional Development Seminar (2, max. 4) Prepares students to become real estate professionals by exposing them to a range of career options and accompanying them in developing their professional project as they apply for internships and jobs. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 480 R E 490 Independent Study (1-3, max. 3) Arranged between the student and a real estate faculty member of their choosing with a mutually agreed real estate topic. Prerequisite: R E 250. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 490 R E 497 Real Estate Data Modeling (4) I&S Covers a variety of different issues that arise when analyzing and modeling land, residential, and commercial real estate markets. Uses GIS and teaches students how to collect, clean, use, manage, and model a variety of data sets to make real-world decisions. Suitability and exploratory spatial data analyses will be covered in the course. Prerequisite: R E 250; R E 397; and R E 416. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 497 R E 506 Quantitative Methods in Real Estate (4) Provides an overview of different data collection methods, basic statistical techniques and their appropriate application based on the size and type of various real estate and socioeconomic dataset. Students determine the appropriate method based on specific objectives and critically assess their findings. No previous knowledge of statistics is required, and all applications will be on Excel and open source software. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 506 R E 507 Accounting for Real Estate (3) Provides an overview of basic accounting concepts and emphasizes tax and accounting methodologies in relation to the development and management of real estate assets. Topics include: understanding balance sheets; income statements; annual reports; GAAP accounting and standards; and federal and real estate property taxation. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 507 R E 508 Financial Modeling for Real Estate I - Excel (3) Gregg Colburn Introduces students to commercial real estate modeling, use of Excel and handheld financial calculators. Allows students to gain mastery and confidence in setting up and using pro-formas and models to analyze real estate investment, asset management, and development. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 508 R E 509 Financial Modeling for Real Estate II (2) C. Tu Introduces students to commercial real estate modeling, using advanced and sophisticated software utilized by real estate professionals. The students gain mastery and confidence in setting up and using pro-formas and models to analyze real estate investment, asset management, and development. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: R E 509 R E 510 Introduction to Real Estate (3) S. DERMISI Provides a basic overview of the participants, processes, workings of different components of the real estate industry (including a variety of uses spanning from residential, office, retail and industrial to specialized) as well as the quantitative components of the real estate decision-making. Additionally, students are introduced to an overview of construction management, sustainability, corporate services, property law and ethics. Offered: jointly with URBDP 552; A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 510 R E 511 Real Estate Valuation and Appraisal (3) Timothy E Overland Every property is unique, therefore the appraisal of real estate presents many challenges and has a strong influence on the financial viability of both existing buildings and the development process. General models for valuing commercial property, industrial property, and land will be introduced. The role of appraisals and different concepts of value will be examined. Offered: jointly with URBDP 555; A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 511 R E 512 Leadership in the Built Environment (3) Focuses on leadership principles applicable to the real estate and the built environment and helps students conduct self-assessments to understand their strengths and ways they can apply them. Addresses both organizational leadership and leadership of construction processes. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 512 R E 513 Real Estate Finance and Investment (4) Introduces students to basic real estate finance and institutional analysis allowing them to quantify the financial implications of real estate decisions. Topics include: basic time value of money, financial leverage, discounted cash flow analysis (properties and institutional portfolios), assessment of various real estate investment classes and distribution of proceeds to investors. Prerequisite: R E 552/URBDP 552. Offered: jointly with URBDP 554; A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 513 R E 514 Negotiations and Conflict Resolution in the Built Environment (3) P. McCabe Overview of negotiation theories, approaches and tactics. Application of deal making procedures for various aspects of real estate decision making processes and audiences (e.g. government, community groups, real estate organizations and partners). Analysis of conflict resolution techniques, mediation, arbitration, etc. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: R E 514 R E 515 Real Estate Law (3) J. Fandel, S. Osborne Focuses on the legal principles and issues essential to understanding the workings of the real estate industry, including the fundamentals of real estate transactions and development projects. Offered: jointly with URBDP 557; W. View course details in MyPlan: R E 515 R E 516 Real Estate Economics and Market Analysis (4) Arthur Acolin Introduces students to real estate market studies for different uses. Covers five areas: basic economic concepts critical in the understanding of real estate markets; urban economy; land rent theory; locational analysis and decision making; and market analysis. Offered: jointly with URBDP 516; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 516 R E 517 Real Estate Asset Management (3) P. Stone Focuses on the fundamentals and structure of asset management from a value improvement perspective. Students are educated on the proactive manner asset managers need to respond to changing tenant needs and competitive market condition, while focusing on the asset appreciation throughout the ownership cycle (acquisition, leasing and disposition). Offered: jointly with URBDP 551; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 517 R E 518 Best Practices in Sustainable Real Estate (3) S. DERMISI Analyzes, at a macro level, the importance of sustainability in urban areas introducing best practices for various environmentally friendly and financially feasible interventions in the US and abroad. At a micro level focuses on adoption of environment5ally friendly improvements at building level with various pay-back periods but long-lasting economic benefits. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: R E 518 R E 519 Real Estate Data Analytics and Visualization (3) Covers techniques for visualizing data, creating data structures, and implementing performance metrics. Provides an overview of ways datasets can be visualized across various software. Prerequisite: R E 506, URBDP 520, or a basic R software course. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 519 R E 530 Corporate Real Estate and Facilities Management (4) Kelli E Leith Emphasizes the understanding of ways real estate footprint can be a factor in attaining the vision/mission of a corporation. Analyzes principles of corporate real estate, key activities and internal relationships, customer motivation, drivers, client based strategic approaches as well as the industry evaluation process including reporting and client deliverables. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 530 R E 531 Real Estate Portfolio Management (4) Focuses on the development and implementation of active and passive portfolio management strategies for institutional quality real estate investment portfolios. Modern portfolio theory and other tools are used to establish real estate allocation in a mixed-asset context; and to manage real estate portfolios among investment and financial structures spanning private/public, equity/debt, property type and geographic/economic regions. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 531 R E 532 Real Estate Project Management (3) S. DERMISI Focuses on the on real estate and construction project management. Topics include: types of project managers, sources of conflicts, organizational structures, delivery methods, construction scheduling, SWOT analysis, ways to mitigate threats to their project. Includes hands on exercises and an introduction of MS Project software. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 532 R E 540 Advanced Real Estate Finance and Investments (4) Arthur Acolin Covers both private and public forms of investment, along with debt and equity positions. Introduces students to real estate investments and the risk/reward trade-offs associated with various deal structures and relationships with financial institutions. Also covers real estate indices and tools to assess transaction risks. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 540 R E 541 Real Estate Capital Markets (3) Analyses capital flows (global and national) and emerging capital market trends that affect the industry. Pays special attention to securitized real estate, including Real Estate Investment Trusts, and Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities. Offered: jointly with URBDP 579; W. View course details in MyPlan: R E 541 R E 542 Private - Public Project Finance (3) H. Oliver Explores creative ways of project financing through public and private partnerships in the form of incentives (e.g. TIF, LIHTC, Brownfield development incentives, etc.) currently offered by different government levels throughout the USA. Prepares to identify the incentives for a project and structure a deal package based on a project's parameters. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 542 R E 550 Real Estate Development (4) H. Oliver Introduction and survey of processes and people involved in developing real estate, including issues of site control, public/private approvals, feasibility analysis, project financing, design/construction, marketing, and asset management. Prerequisite: R E 552/URBDP 552. Offered: jointly with URBDP 578. View course details in MyPlan: R E 550 R E 551 Real Estate Development Studio ([2-5]-, max. 5) The Real Estate Development studio is a required for the MSRE option in RE Development. The focus of the course has been traditionally on competitions. The course will continue to focus in commercial real estate competitions (NAIOP) and projects in the autumn quarter, however a focus on affordable housing will be the emphasis while pursuing the Bank of America's affordable Housing Challenge in the winter and spring quarter. Offered: jointly with URBDP 513; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 551 R E 552 Real Estate Careers and Professional Development (3) Prepares students for future careers in real estate. Helps students understand their core competencies, areas of real estate they could utilize them, and how to prepare and present themselves to future employers. Students practice effective communication tools to apply in real estate companies of various scales, and professional and cultural backgrounds. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: R E 552 R E 553 Urban Land Economics (4) Introduces urban economics, land markets, and locational decision making; and examines urban spatial structure and the economic, political, social, technological, and historical forces that shape land values and uses. Uses applied spatial analytical tools including geographic information systems and geogemographic software. Offered: jointly with URBDP 553; A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 553 R E 556 Real Estate Investment (4) Focuses on direct real estate investment based on the productive capacity of the total property, debt, and equity components and their impact on the cash returns in the form of positive returns to the property, tax savings potential, alternative leverage effects, and the gains at sale. Offered: jointly with URBDP 556; W. View course details in MyPlan: R E 556 R E 558 Real Estate Market Analysis (4) Prepares students to conduct and interpret market studies to cover a range of real estate decisions. Exposes students to the market analysis process and various tools and techniques that can be used to analyze and forecast supply, demand, and rental rates. Offered: jointly with URBDP 558; W. View course details in MyPlan: R E 558 R E 559 Risk and Reward in Sustainable Development (3) Focuses on the intersection of green, high performing buildings and the law. Students learn to identify and understand the risks and challenges presented by high performing buildings, and analyze frameworks and strategies to manage and overcome these challenges. Offered: jointly with LAW E 534; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 559 R E 560 Real Estate Feasibility (4) Applies critical thinking needed to understand the drivers of value of the major property types which covers the "user in search of a site" and "investor in search of involvement' feasibility questions. Applies a combination of qualitative and quantitative analysis to target markets. Offered: jointly with URBDP 568; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 560 R E 563 Housing Markets and Policy (3/5, max. 8) Arthur Acolin Provides students with the tools to understand housing markets, the policies in place to support housing production and remaining frictions. Emphasizes the link between housing finance systems and housing market outcomes with a focus on the US mortgage system and products. Incorporates international components to analyze factors that underlay differences and similarities in housing markets in selected countries. Recommended: introduction to microeconomics; introduction to finance. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 563 R E 564 Affordable Housing (4) Rebecca J. Walter Introduction to the field of affordable housing. Addresses issues inherent in planning, finance, design, construction, and management of affordable housing in the United States. Examines the role of federal, state, local, non-profit, and private sector agencies and participants. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: R E 564 R E 565 Advanced Housing Studies (4) Gregg Colburn Advanced survey of housing. Students select a housing-related topic that serves as the basis of a quarter-long project. Also, students read key texts and articles on a range of housing-related topics and participate in seminar discussions on these readings. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: R E 565 R E 566 Real Estate Market Evolution and Disruption (3) Provides an overview of how the use of technology in real estate is disrupting the traditional way of doing business. Students explore how property technology, from Artificial Intelligence (AI) to the Internet of Things (IoT), are affecting real estate. Also covers how real estate decision making is changing based on the shared economy, financial technology, blockchain and real estate asset tokenization. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 566 R E 569 Real Estate Portfolio Management (5) Students develop formal portfolio management strategies that draw on their in-depth understanding of real estate fundamentals, strategic planning and portfolio theory. Working in teams, students prepare cutting-edge portfolio strategies including the policies and procedures for implementation and portfolio management. Offered: jointly with URBDP 559; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 569 R E 570 Real Estate Project Finance (3) Introduces financing real property projects developed by public, community, and private entities with a primary emphasis on interim (acquisition/development/construction) and take-out lending for new real estate projects. Offered: jointly with URBDP 577; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 570 R E 590 Real Estate Forum I (1) Provides an opportunity for students to learn about the interdisciplinary nature of real estate from industry leaders. Discusses current issues and opportunities in the industry as well as what it takes to develop a sustainable career path. Offered: jointly with URBDP 590; A. View course details in MyPlan: R E 590 R E 597 Real Estate Data Modeling (4) Rebecca J. Walter Covers a variety of different issues that arise when analyzing and modeling land, residential, and commercial real estate markets. Uses GIS and teaches students how to collect, clean, use, manage, and model a variety of data sets to make real-world decisions. Suitability and exploratory spatial data analyses will be covered in the course. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 597 R E 598 Real Estate Special Topics (1-4, max. 12) A. Hurd Systematic study of specialized subject matter. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: R E 598 R E 600 Independent Study or Research (1-3, max. 3) Arranged between the student and a real estate faculty member of their choosing with a mutually agreed real estate topic. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: R E 600 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022