Skip to content Search Site: Powered by Search Campus: Powered by Search Campus University of Utah COVID-19 Updates The University of Utah Main Title Sub Title Admissions Office of Admissions Apply Prospective Students Request information Campus Tours Events Undergraduate Graduate International Students Asia Campus New Students Freshman Confirm/Deposit Financial Aid & Scholarships New Student Orientation Registrar Housing Academic Calendar Student Life Student Affairs Housing The MUSS The Union Student Life Center Student Leadership & Involvement SafeU Academics Academic Resources Catalogs, Schedules & Calendar Colleges & Departments Majors Graduate School Student Success Libraries Global U Research Arts The Arts on Campus Upcoming Events Academic Programs Professional Arts Youth Arts U of U Health Education Research Patient Care Athletics Utah Athletics Buy Tickets Schedule Crimson Club Shop Utah Gear Donate SearchReveal Menu Reveal Menu Main Navigation Main Menu Home Admissions Office of Admissions Apply Prospective Students Request information Campus Tours Events Undergraduate Graduate International Students Asia Campus New Students Freshman Confirm/Deposit Financial Aid & Scholarships New Student Orientation Registrar Housing Academic Calendar Student Life Student Affairs Housing The MUSS The Union Student Life Center Student Leadership & Involvement SafeU Academics Academic Resources Catalogs, Schedules & Calendar Colleges & Departments Majors Graduate School Student Success Libraries Global U Research Arts The Arts on Campus Upcoming Events Academic Programs Professional Arts Youth Arts U of U Health Education Research Patient Care Athletics Utah Athletics Buy Tickets Schedule Crimson Club Shop Utah Gear Donate U of U Health Education Research Patient Care U Quick Links A-Z Index Campus Directory Campus Map Shuttle Tracker CIS UMail @ The U Apply Visit Give Home Current Page: The Arts on Campus The Arts on Campus 2020 State of the Arts from U of U College of Fine Arts on Vimeo. The arts at the University of Utah are as abundant and diverse as they are accessible. Between the five academic units in the College of Fine Arts and the three professional arts organizations (Utah Museum of Fine Arts, UtahPresents and Pioneer Theatre Company), there are hundreds of plays, performances, exhibits, concerts, film screenings and chances to interact with local and international artists every year. The best part is that through the U's Arts Pass program, students can use their Ucard to get free or deeply-discounted access to interesting, perspective-widening, curiosity-piquing, creativity-catalyzing events. This award-winning program is funded by students Fine Arts Fees and is important because more and more research is showing the positive impacts of the arts on education. The findings are significant: exposure to the arts is linked with better critical thinking skills, greater social tolerance, a greater likelihood of seeking out art and culture in the future, and better workforce opportunities. Visit artspass.utah.edu to find out how to get your tickets and see events you might want to add your calendar. Academic Arts Find your voice. Fuel your passion. Ignite your future. The University of Utah College of Fine Arts faculty and programs challenge, immerse and ultimately prepare the committed student for a rewarding career. While here, students study under passionate, world-renowned faculty who provide exciting, diverse experiences that are truly life changing for our students. And the rigorous practice and ardent curriculum prepares our students to gracefully transition from their education into meaningful lives as artists, scholars, educators, and creative thinkers in any field. Our alumni become change factors in their communities and full participants as global citizens. For more information, visit the College of Fine Arts website or that of its five academic units: Art & Art History Dance Film & Media Arts Music Theatre Learn More About Academic Arts Professional Arts Professional artists of all kinds visit the U each year to lecture, tutor, create, and perform. Campus is home to a variety of venues, ranging range from the small and intimate to the spacious and grand, where the arts are enjoyed and nourished. Learn More About Professional Arts Youth Arts Music Preparatory Division in the School of Music Utah Museum of Fine Arts UtahPresents Outreach Virginia Tanner Creative Dance Program Youth Theatre Pioneer Theatre Student Programs Campus Links Directions Campus Map Parking on Campus Arts Events No events available. Events calendar powered by Trumba More Events No entries at this time. The University of Utah 201 Presidents Circle Salt Lake City, UT 84112 801.581.7200 Resources Future Students Students Parents & Families Faculty Staff Visitors Alumni Initiatives Research Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Sustainability Employment U Leadership University Safety About the U Information Office of the President Give to the U Media Contacts Ute Proud Campus Events Community Contact - Feedback Quick Links A-Z Index Campus Directory Campus Map Shuttle Tracker CIS UMail @ The U © 2022 The University of Utah Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Credits & Attributions Media Contacts Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Last Updated: 7/30/21