Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Math Department Menu Main Nav Math Department Math Department Contact Back Back Close About Overview Giving to Mathematics Contact News & Notes Open Positions People Undergraduate Overview Majors and Minors Courses Selecting Courses Course Approvals Registration Overrides Tutoring Undergraduate Research Careers and Opportunities Awards FAQ About Advanced Placement About Calculus Graduate Overview Ph.D. Program Graduate Brochure Ph.D. Requirements Ph.D. Coursework Qualifying Exams Application Requirements Advanced Coursework Financial Aid Teaching Fellowships Graduate Courses Exemplary Math Educators Project Noyce Master Teacher Fellowship Noyce Teaching Fellowship Master of Science in Teaching Program Developing Exemplary Math Teacher Leaders Project Research Overview Faculty Awards and Professional Recognition Seminars and Colloquia Overview Mathematics Education Colloquium Series Distinguished Lecture Series Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Welcome to the Math Department The Boston College Mathematics department seeks to advance mathematics through a commitment to excellence in research, teaching and service to the community. The faculty has a strong research reputation, with highly regarded research groups in the areas of Algebraic Geometry, Geometry, Number Theory, Representation Theory, and Topology. There are over 300 undergraduate math majors at Boston College, and students receiving a B.A. or B.S. in mathematics are highly in demand in a wide range of job areas. The department's Ph.D. program began in 2010 and now supports 25-30 graduate students, attracting doctoral students from top programs both nationally and internationally. Service contributions include extensive work with pre-collegiate math teachers, involvement with mathematics policy questions at the state and national levels, and support for scholarship in mathematics through the organization of international scholarly meetings and the editing of high quality journals. News & Notes All Research Announcements Faculty Publications Students Awards The Boston College Mathematics department seeks to advance mathematics through a commitment to excellence in research, teaching and service to the community. Our faculty have been honored with a number of prestigious awards: four Sloan Research Fellowships, six National Science Foundation CAREER awards, and four Simons Fellowships, three Fellows of the American Mathematical Society, and the AWM-Birman Prize. Our faculty have been honored with a number of prestigious awards: four Sloan Research Fellowships, six National Science Foundation CAREER awards, and four Simons Fellowships, three Fellows of the American Mathematical Society, and the AWM-Birman Prize. Back To Top Back To Top Math Department Maloney Hall, Fifth Floor Boston College Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3806 617-552-1201 math@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to Math Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College