Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print DOE extends University PPPL contract The Office of Communications March 21, 2022, 3:37 p.m. On March 21, representatives of the U.S. Department of Energy and Princeton University gathered in Nassau Hall to extend the primary contract for the management and operations of the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory. Shown are David McComas (center), vice president for PPPL and professor of astrophysical sciences, who signed for the University, while Michael Toth (second from left), Contracting Officer for the DOE-Princeton Site Office, signed for the Department of Energy. Also on hand were (left to right) Kevin Licciardi, University Counsel; Sandra Rogan, manager of the DOE-Princeton Site Office; and Chelle Reno, assistant vice president for operations for PPPL. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications On March 21, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and Princeton University extended the contract for Princeton’s management and operation of the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL), located on Princeton University’s Forrestal Campus in Plainsboro, New Jersey. “We are delighted to have this 5-year contract extension to continue the critical work at PPPL,” said David McComas, vice president for PPPL and professor of astrophysical sciences. “The University is committed to advancing research and science in the service of society through our long-term and growing collaboration with DOE.” PPPL is devoted to creating new knowledge about the physics of plasmas — charged gases — and to developing practical solutions for creating fusion energy. Over the past three years, PPPL’s Richard Hawryluk led the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine report “Bringing Fusion to the U.S. Grid” and played a critical role in the fusion Community Planning Process. PPPL scientists invented new stellarator configurations with the novel approach of using permanent magnets and used the most powerful supercomputers and artificial intelligence to improve predictive modeling of plasma dynamics in tokamaks. PPPL has also established new research programs and collaborations in microelectronics, quantum materials and devices, sustainability, and computational sciences. PPPL’s core research focus is enabling the scientific breakthroughs required to develop fusion as a safe, clean, and abundant energy source. Princeton has had the honor of being the PPPL contractor since the Laboratory's inception in 1951, when it was called Project Matterhorn and under the leadership of founding Director Lyman Spitzer, an American theoretical physicist. PPPL is one of 10 National Laboratories stewarded by DOE’s Office of Science, and of 17 DOE laboratories, which comprise a preeminent federal research system providing the nation with strategic scientific and technological capabilities. The five-year contract extension emphasizes collaboration. Princeton University has agreed to: Continue to co-sponsor the Facility for Laboratory Reconnection Experiments (FLARE), a powerful new device for advancing research into magnetic reconnection that was initially assembled at the University with support from the National Science Foundation and then moved to PPPL in 2019. The University will finish funding upgrades to the machine, and DOE will fund project management, infrastructure and commissioning, subject to the availability of funding. Continue to co-sponsor investments in PPPL’s high-performance computing capability, which will build on the dramatic increase in computing capacity from the donated Traverse and co-sponsored Stellar clusters located in Princeton’s High-Performance Computing Research Center. Co-sponsor new collaborations between PPPL and the University in microelectronics and quantum information science. These collaborations will allow rapid growth in these science and technology areas, vital to the nation’s competitiveness and national security. Outfit PPPL’s upcoming new building, the Princeton Plasma Innovation Center, with cutting-edge research equipment. This will maximize the impact of research in the new laboratory spaces and further the joint DOE, Princeton and PPPL mission. Contribute administrative services in support of Laboratory operations. “We have been rapidly increasing the collaborations between the University and DOE over the past three years and are committed to the continued expansion of this key partnership,” said McComas. “By integrating our unique capabilities, Princeton, PPPL and DOE can collectively best serve the nation’s and the world’s needs.” More on fusion research and innovation View All News A timeline of innovation and impact at Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory Research: Read more Energy leaders are convening at the White House for a summit on the commercialization of clean fusion energy University News: Read more Fisch receives funding for 'unlikely but fantastic' clean energy technology Innovation: Read more PPPL researcher's work yields a breakthrough for a promising fusion-energy device Innovation: Read more White House and U.S. Department of Energy leaders meet at PPPL to discuss accelerating timeline to produce electricity from fusion energy: Read more How the Princeton Plasma Physics Lab contributed to the new world record in clean fusion energy Research: Read more Princeton alumna and postdoctoral fellow wins award for groundbreaking plasma physics Award: Read more Massive underground instrument finds final secret of our sun’s fusion Research: Read more Astrophysicist Kunz receives NSF award for research and for establishing plasma physics summer school aimed at attracting underrepresented students to field Award: Read more Princeton’s new supercomputer, Traverse, to accelerate scientific discovery in fusion research Innovation: Read more New national facility will explore low-temperature plasma — a dynamic source of innovation for modern technologies Innovation: Read more Artificial intelligence accelerates efforts to develop clean, virtually limitless fusion energy Research: Read more 'Ghost' particles, gliding through sun, reveal inner workings of solar furnace Research: Read more ‘These Vibes Are Too Cosmic’ brings science to WPRB Campus Life: Read more Fisch receives Fusion Power Associates’ Distinguished Career Award Award: Read more Secretary of Energy Perry says PPPL research has potential to ‘change the world’ University News: Read more Princeton astrophysicist Bhattacharjee leads team to create framework for an optimal fusion energy device Research: Read more Princeton senior's thesis project makes material difference in quest for fusion energy Academics: Read more William Tang wins 2018 Global Impact Award to advance development of AI software to help create a 'star on earth’ Award: Read more First plasma for new machine to study process that occurs throughout the universe Research: Read more Artificial intelligence helps accelerate progress toward efficient fusion reactions Research: Read more PPPL completes shipment of electrical components to power site for ITER, the international fusion experiment International: Read more PPPL dedicates upgraded fusion reactor, a powerful new 'star on Earth': Read more Video: Plasmas are hot, fusion is cool: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice