Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY Menu Search TTU About Texas Tech University Texas Tech University About TTU Committed to teaching and the advancement of knowledge, Texas Tech University, a comprehensive public research university, provides the highest standards of excellence in higher education, fosters intellectual and personal development, and stimulates meaningful research and service to humankind. University Rankings Research Classification Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education's “Very High Research Activity” category. Texas Tech University is among 131 universities and colleges in the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education's “Very High Research Activity” category. The University also is only one of 94 public institutions listed. The list is updated every three years and universities must maintain specific criteria to achieve designation. Texas Tech first made the list in 2015 and was reaffirmed in 2018. Hispanic Serving Institution In 2019, Texas Tech achieved full status as a Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI). In the Fall of 2019, the institution recorded an undergraduate Hispanic student population of 29.2%. While HSI status is determined based on an undergraduate student body that is above 25% Hispanic, Texas Tech offers a comprehensive series of programs, services, initiatives, and organizations to underrepresented students, students of color, and first-generation students, many of whom are Hispanic. Founded Texas Tech University was created by legislative action in 1923 and has the distinction of being the largest comprehensive higher education institution in the western two-thirds of the state of Texas. The university is the major institution of higher education in a region larger than 46 of the nation's 50 states and is the only campus in Texas that is home to a major university, law school and medical school. Originally named Texas Technological College, the college opened in 1925 with six buildings and an enrollment of 914. Graduate instruction did not begin until 1927 within the school of Liberal Arts. A “Division of Graduate Studies” was established in 1935 and eventually became known as the Graduate School in 1954. By action of the Texas State Legislature, Texas Technological College formally became Texas Tech University on September 1, 1969. Location Texas Tech University is located on the South Plains of West Texas in Lubbock (pop. 255,885). As the University was being established, several potential locations, including Floydada, Plainview, Big Spring, and Sweetwater were considered, before Lubbock was selected. 255,885 Lubbock Population Facilities The campus, which boasts Spanish Renaissance architecture, was described by American author James A. Michener as the “most beautiful west of the Mississippi until you get to Stanford” and by Stewart Mandel of Sports Illustrated as “easily one of the ten most beautiful campuses” he had seen. Many of the newly constructed buildings qualify for LEED certification, yet maintain the consistent Spanish theme throughout campus. Student Profile Student Profile: In fall 2021, 40,666 students were enrolled in the university. Of those, 33,256 were undergraduate and 7,410 graduate and law students. 40,666 Student Enrollment National Merit Finalists In fall 2020, a record number of National Merit Finalists were on campus, including 20 in the incoming freshman class, to bring the total to 72. Texas Tech's total is among the top 50 nationally, per the Center for Measuring University Performance. 72 National Merit Finalists Prestigious Scholarships Over the span of Texas Tech University's history, 41 students have received the prestigious Goldwater Scholarship and 34 students have been named Fulbright Finalists in the last 10 years, including a record four in 2017. 41 Goldwater Scholars Faculty and Staff Profile Texas Tech University has 1,600 full-time and 188 part-time faculty. Academic Programs Thirteen colleges and schools makeup the academic areas at Texas Tech University and offer more than 150 undergraduate degrees, 100 graduate degrees, and 50 doctoral degrees. College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources College of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Jerry S. Rawls College of Business Administration College of Education Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Honors College College of Human Sciences College of Media and Communication J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Graduate School School of Law School of Veterinary Medicine University Libraries Worldwide eLearning 150 Undergraduate Degrees 100 Graduate Degrees 50 Doctoral Degrees Student Organizations There are more than 450 organizations at Texas Tech University in which students can get involved. 450 Organizations Study Abroad More than 1,300 (1,384 to be exact) participated in Study Abroad by traveling to other countries and engaging in scholarship during the 2018-19 academic year. 1,384 Participants Service and Learning Texas Tech University's Service Learning Program is supported by the The Center for Transformative Undergraduate Experiences (TrUE) and the Teaching, Learning, and Professional Development Center (TLPDC) and provides information, support, and opportunities concerning service learning to students, faculty, and community members, fostering an appreciation of the academic and social values of community engagement. Athletics Texas Tech University's Red Raiders are members of the Big 12 Conference and compete in 17 varsity sports, including nine women's and eight men's programs. Campus Libraries Texas Tech University's libraries includes the University Library, Architecture Library, Law Library, Southwest Collection/Special Collections Library, Vietnam Archive, and Health Sciences Center Library. Admissions Undergraduate and Graduate Tuition Tuition for the 2019-20 academic year is $10,835 for undergraduate in-state or bordering states students and $8,768 for graduate students. $10,835 Instate Tuition Visitors Center The Texas Tech University Visitor's Center is located in West Hall off the main entrance from University Ave. For more information or to schedule a tour, contact a representative at (806) 742-1480 or admissions@ttu.edu. 806.742.1480 admissions@ttu.edu Alumni Association Created in 1927, the Texas Tech Alumni Association represents nearly 225,000 alumni across the world, including 199,494 in the United States. There are 159,449 alumni in the state of Texas, and alumni in 119 countries and each of the 50 states. 225,000 Alumni Across World Parents Association The Texas Tech Parents Association was founded in 1956 and provides a network for parents, student scholarships and achievement awards, faculty awards, and a variety of programs and services to help make the family experience at Texas Tech memorable. Endowment Texas Tech University's endowment in 2020 was $764 million (as of August 31, 2020). In the latest Center for Measuring University Performance rankings (2019), the University's endowment ranked 133 overall and 48 among all public institutions $764 Million Dollars Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 14, 2022 4:57 PM Texas Tech University Admissions Texas Tech University Admissions Back Undergraduate Texas Tech University Admissions Undergraduate Back First-time Students Transfer Students International Texas Tech - Costa Rica Other Admission Graduate Texas Tech University Admissions Graduate Back How to Apply Graduate Programs Available School of Law Texas Tech University Admissions School of Law Back Application Process Frequently Asked Questions Academics Texas Tech University Academics Back Majors & Colleges Texas Tech University Academics Majors & Colleges Back Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs School of Law Worldwide eLearning University Libraries Colleges & Schools Texas Tech University Academics Colleges & Schools Back College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources College of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Jerry S. Rawls College of Business Administration College of Education Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Honors College College of Human Sciences College of Media & Communication J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Graduate School School of Law School of Veterinary Medicine Research Alumni Texas Tech University Alumni Back Alumni Community Texas Tech University Alumni Alumni Community Back Texas Tech Alumni Association Institutional Advancement Texas Tech Red Raider Club Campus Life Texas Tech University Campus Life Back Campus Life Texas Tech University Campus Life Campus Life Back University Student Housing Getting Around Campus Dining on Campus Recreational Sports Our Campus Visit TTU Student Life Texas Tech University Campus Life Student Life Back Center for Campus Life Student Union & Activities Fraternity & Sorority Life Spirit Squads Student Organizations Student Leadership & Involvement History & Traditions Student Rec Center Health, Safety & Wellness Texas Tech University Campus Life Health, Safety & Wellness Back Emergency Communications Center Student Counseling Center Student Health Services Center for the Study of Addiction and Recovery Health Insurance Responsible Community Living Campus Police Behavioral Intervention Team Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) Student Resources Texas Tech University Campus Life Student Resources Back Current Students Student Handbook Dean of Students University Career Center Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Academic Support Red to Black - Student Financial Planning University ID Card Athletics About Texas Tech University About Back Texas Tech University Texas Tech University About Texas Tech University Back Office of the President Office of the Provost University Outreach and Engagement Texas Tech Facts Rankings Our Campus Administrative Offices University Strategic Plan TTU Resources Texas Tech University About Back Texas Tech Today Campus Map Academic Calendar Giving Work at Texas Tech Faculty & Staff State Employee Charitable Campaign (SECC) Organizational Chart TTU Experts Guide