Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Climate School Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home The School Education Research News Events People Giving Shop Leadership Careers COVID-19 Resources Privacy Policy Explore All Programs MA Climate + Society Non-Degree Programs Educator Training Pre-College Programs Professional Learning Undergraduate Research Experiences Office of Research Pre-Award Unit Research Partners Research Projects Columbia Climate School You are here: Home The School Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Identities of users of this Site are not anonymous, but names of users and personal identifying information about users will not be provided to any third parties. Columbia University does use IP addresses, domain information and other access statistics to analyze trends, administer the Site, track users' movements, and gather broad demographic information for aggregate use. This information is not linked to personally identifiable information. Columbia University may share aggregated demographic information with third parties. Aggregate information is not linked to any personal information that can identify any individual person. Subscription lists The Columbia Climate School, Web site provides subscription services, including several e-mail based mailing lists. E-mail addresses collected in the maintenance of those lists are not shared with any person or organization outside of the Columbia Climate School. Subscription to any one mailing list is limited to that list only, unless the subscriber specifically requests additional subscriptions or correspondences. This Privacy Policy applies to your use of sites under the domains www.climate.columbia.edu and climate.columbia.edu. This Privacy Policy does not apply to your use of any other sites operated by Columbia University or affiliated or unaffiliated third-party sites to which the Site may link. Exceptions In certain circumstances, and as exceptions to this Privacy Policy, we will, without notice to you, release specific information about you or your account to comply with any valid legal process such as a search warrant, subpoena, statute or court order, or in other special cases, such as, for example, an attempted breach of the security of the Site, or a physical threat to you or others. We may change this Privacy Policy from time to time to address new issues and reflect changes on this site, and as the need arises. All changes to this Privacy Policy will be posted here. Please refer to this Privacy Policy regularly. If you have any questions or concerns about this Privacy Policy, please send us an email at [email protected]. Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close