Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Unpacking the Man Box: Masculinity and Leadership Events Past Event Unpacking the Man Box: Masculinity and Leadership Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 20, 2022 4:30 PM - 6:00 PM America/New_York Online After a successful Unpacking the Man Box discussion during SAAM 2021, members of the Men’s Engagement Task Force and Sexual Violence Response are working together again to highlight how masculinity and leadership shape our various spaces on campus. This session will aim to discuss how leadership is expected to be performed, placed upon men, deflected from women and non-binary folks, and how to use that expectation to transform spaces with harmful power structures (i.e., everywhere). This will be a panel discussion between internal and external folks to unpack how they use their masculinity to navigate power structures and dynamics. The panelists will focus on their development from students through to their contributions in different workspaces. They will discuss how their additional identities, including race and sexuality, have also shaped the expectations of masculinity in these spaces. Finally, they will discuss using their masculinity and their leadership to not just lead in work and school spaces, but to lead in our communities as prosocial bystanders when it comes to power-based violence and gender-based harassment. All members of the Columbia community are welcome. Please register on Zoom. Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. Please notify us in advance if you require closed captioning, sign-language interpretation, or any other disability accommodations. Alternatively, Disability Services can be reached at 212-854-2388 and [email protected]. Contact Information Sexual Violence Response [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close