COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Campus Dining Section Menu Student Life Arts and Culture Campus Recreation Dining Diversity Explore Wichita Health and Wellness Activities and Traditions Housing and Residence Life Rhatigan Student Center Student Engagement, Advocacy and Leadership Student Government Association Student Advocate Student Conduct Graduate Student Council Stop Video At Wichita State, dining is as diverse as it is delicious. With options available on and off campus—early or late—a meal, snack or caffeine fix is always within reach. See what's open now See all WSU and nearby dining options Rhatigan Student Center Food Court The RSC, located in the heart of campus, offers multiple options to feed your cravings. Choices include Starbucks, Chick‑fil‑a, Freddy’s Steakburgers, Panda Express and Chaat House —or you can head downstairs for burgers and daily specials at Shocker Sports Grill and Lanes. Find the RSC Shocker Hall Dining Shocker Hall is home to a 400-seat dining hall serving all-you-can-eat meals for one low price. Next door is the GroundHouse, serving coffee from locally owned Reverie Coffee Roasters and on-the-go meal and snacks items. See what's on the menu today About Chartwells Chartwells is a recognized leader in food service management, hospitality and guest service, working with more than 270 colleges and universities. Their culinary philosophy brings healthy, sustainable dining and catering to Wichita State. Visit Chartwells WSU page Food trucks provide endless variety WSU's Food Truck Plaza features a rotating selection of area food truck vendors on weekdays, offering everything from crepes to bratwurst to kimchi. The plaza is located on the Innovation Campus, across the street from the National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR). Visit the Food Truck Plaza website Find the FTP Braeburn Square options Braeburn Square, a new mixed-use development on the north side of campus, features a full-service Starbucks; a Fuzzy's Taco Shop, Social Tap Drinkery, Sungrano Pizza and Wheatly's Burgers. Mega-Bytes is a convenience store in the John Bardo Center, serving Reverie Roasters coffee, pastries from Bagatelle Bakery and more. Learn more about Braeburn Square Make a Shock Stop Wichita State University has teamed with local businesses to form Shock Stop, a university discount program. Students, faculty, staff and innovation partners with a valid shocker ID can receive a minimum 10 percent discount at participating merchants. Participating merchants will display the Shock Stop window cling at their storefront. To receive the discount, simply present your Shocker ID at the time of purchase. Participating locations 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©