Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Classics Home About People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Visiting Scholars & Fellows Graduate Students Staff Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Academics Diversity & Inclusion News Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Recent Graduates Site Navigation Home About Office Hours Contact Information Faculty Bookshelf The Couch Library Stay Connected [email protected] Intranet People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Visiting Scholars & Fellows Graduate Students Staff Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Academics Undergraduate Program Study Abroad Research & Travel Funding Academic Prizes Departmental Undergraduate Group Brown Classical Journal History Submission Guidelines Graduate Program PhD Programs Classics Sanskrit Track Ancient History Reading List MA in Classics Graduate Student Symposia Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement Courses Classics Greek Latin Modern Greek Sanskrit Diversity & Inclusion Diversity Statements News The Occasional Classicist Stay Connected Events Annual Lectures & Events Latin Carol Celebration Past Classics Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Past Volumes Recent Graduates Class of 2020 Class of 2021 Graduate Students Sam Butler Ancient History, Entry Year: 2015 [email protected] Sam received a B.A. in Classical Studies from the University of Chicago, where he graduated in 2014 with honors and was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa. His senior thesis used epigraphic, literary and archaeological evidence to explore issues of Hellenization and native identity preservation and presentation in Karia in the 5th–3rd centuries B.C. Read full profile Meaghan Carley Classics, Entry Year: 2018 [email protected] Meaghan Carley's work centers on the relationship between ancient text and material culture, especially monumentality and ecphrasis. Her other interests include engaged pedagogy, intertextuality and reception, and Red Sox baseball. Read full profile Benjamin Driver Classics, Entry Year: 2018 [email protected] Benjamin Driver received his BA in Classics from Dartmouth College in 2013. After this, he taught middle and high school Latin and French for five years. While teaching he became interested in the Neo-Latin of the Renaissance and Early Modern period, especially via the lens of Classical reception. Read full profile Christopher Ell Ancient History, Entry Year: 2016 [email protected] Chris received his bachelor’s degree summa cum laude from Yale University in 2012 with a double major in Classics and Physics. Before beginning graduate school, he worked for several years as a data science and IT consultant specializing in optimization and database design. His dissertation, titled Pass the Wine: Feasting and Social Distinction in the Connected Mediterranean, compares food cultures in the Greek, Etruscan, Phoenicio-Punic, and Mesopotamian worlds from the 7th through mid-5th centuries BCE. Read full profile Caitlin Fennerty Classics, Entry Year: 2017 [email protected] Caitlin earned her BA in Liberal Arts from St. John’s College in Santa Fe, New Mexico. Caitlin’s current research has focused on the Odyssey, and the ways this text may express Archaic self-conscious reflection on the tension between poetic artifice and truth. Read full profile Jeremy Fischer Classics, Entry Year: 2016 [email protected] Jeremy graduated summa cum laude from Boston University in 2015 with a BA in Ancient Greek & Latin and Religion Studies. His honors thesis examined poetic structure and the politics of gendered bodies in Ovid's Amores. Read full profile Isabella Grunberger-Kirsh Classics, Entry Year: 2017 [email protected] Ella completed a BA and MSt at the University of Oxford before moving to the USA to teach various classical courses for two years at Marlboro College, a small liberal arts college in Vermont. Read full profile Douglas Hill Classics, Entry Year: 2016 [email protected] Doug studied Religion at Columbia University School of General Studies, where he graduated summa cum laude. Doug’s interests currently include Lucretius and Apuleius and their attitudes toward religion. Read full profile William Jacobs Classics, Entry Year: 2013 [email protected] William received his B.A. in Classics and English from Columbia University in 2013. His current research interests include representations of battle-sites in Roman historiography and the development of Greek dream interpretation. Read full profile Christopher Leo Jotischky-Hull Classics, Entry Year: 2017 [email protected] Christopher completed his BA in Literae Humaniores at the University of Oxford (New College) in 2017. His undergraduate thesis explored the presentation of the physiological effects of love on the human body in Ancient Greek poetry from Sappho to Meleager, and compared this to how lovers’ bodies are represented in the poetry of Cavafy. Read full profile Clare Kearns Classics, Entry Year: 2020 [email protected] Clare received her BA in 2020 from the University of Pennsylvania, where she studied Classics and Comparative Literature. Clare’s undergraduate thesis examined Apollonius’ Argonautica through the lens of Simone de Beauvoir’s gendered ontologies and the Greek concept of amechania. At Brown, Clare will further her study of Greek tragedy and Hellenistic poetry with an eye towards contemporary critical race and gender theory. Her other interests include translation, reception, hiking, and Philly sports teams. Read full profile Itamar Levin Ancient History, Entry Year: 2019 [email protected] Itamar received his BA in the humanities and arts from Tel Aviv University in 2016. During his studies, he became interested in the classical world and subsequently, learned Ancient Greek and Latin. Read full profile Lucy McInerney Classics, Entry Year: 2017 [email protected] Lucy received her MPhil in Greek and Latin Languages and Literature from the University of Oxford in 2017, after having graduated from Dickinson College in 2015 with a BA in Classical Studies. While she remains interested in questions of identity and self-representation in the late Republic, Lucy is particularly looking forward to broadening her knowledge of ancient authors at Brown. Read full profile Alvaro Pires Classics, Entry Year: 2014 [email protected] Alvaro earned his B.A. in Classical Studies from Santa Clara University in 2011 and his M.A. in Classics from the University of Arizona in 2014, where he received awards for ancient Greek and academic excellence. Alvaro's research revolves primarily around Augustan literature and its transmission. Read full profile Fiona Sappenfield Classics, Entry Year: 2016 [email protected] Fiona earned her BA in Literae Humaniores from the University of Oxford (New College) in 2016. Her interests include epic and the treatment of nature in ancient literature. Read full profile Marko Vitas Classics, Entry Year: 2018 [email protected] Academia Profile Marko Vitas is a first year PhD student in Classics at Brown University. He earned his Bachelor’s degree in Classics from University of Belgrade summa cum laude (thesis title: “A comparative analysis of six Serbian and Croatian translations of Vergil’s Aeneid”) and a Master’s degree in Classics from the same university (thesis title: “Greek stars on Roman skies: Comparative analysis of three Ancient Roman translations of Aratus’ Φαινόμενα”). Read full profile Preston Walker Classics, Entry Year: 2019 [email protected] Preston received a B.A. in Classics from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 2013 and an M.A. in Religious Studies from Wake Forest University in 2019. For four years, Preston taught high school Latin and Classical Rhetoric. Read full profile Qizhen Xie Ancient History, Entry Year: 2019 [email protected] Qizhen earned his M.A. in History at University of New Hampshire in 2019. His main interest lies in the Hellenistic world, particularly in the development of administration and bureaucracy from early to mid Hellenistic period (cir. 300-150 BCE). Read full profile Michael Ziegler Classics, Entry Year: 2019 [email protected] Michael received a B.A. with Highest Honors in Philosophy and a B.A. in Classics from the University of Virginia in 2015. His honors thesis dealt with competing theories of practical rationality in connection with Socrates’ theory of pleasure in Protagoras. Read full profile People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Visiting Scholars & Fellows Graduate Students Staff Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Department of Classics Department of Classics Brown University Box 1856 48 College Street Providence, RI 02912-1856 Phone: 401-863-1267 Fax: 401-863-7484 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top