Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Research Office of Research Research Centers STEM Outreach Cadet Summer Research Program Research Awards Institute for Future Conflict CONNECTING WITH THE K–12 COMMUNITY STEM OUTREACH The mission of the United States Air Force Academy Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Outreach Program is to offer a variety of products and services locally and nationally that effectively engage, inspire, and attract the next generation of STEM talent. Faculty and cadets work with the local community, schools, and teachers to provide outreach and increase the effectiveness of the Air Force’s investment in STEM. Cadets have the opportunity to mentor the next generation of potential cadets through involvement in these efforts. Stem2018_2 Stem2018_1 CO2 bubbles What If Festival 2019 (002) #2 GIM Event STEM Bubbles FREE STEM Resources for Classroom Teachers Cadet STEM Read Aloud for K-5 Cadets connect with classrooms to read a picture book and a kit of materials is provided for a STEM activity. Teachers keep the book and materials! Teachers may sign up one class per semester. Planetarium Shows Let your imagination take flight in our state-of-the-art 360-degree digital dome. Join us for a hands-on STEM project or fly-through astronomer demonstration, in addition to an educational show. To learn more, click here. Lending Library Life, earth, and physical science equipment are available as well as robotics, construction, and STEM literacy materials. Additions for this school year include adjustable pipettes, Picture Perfect K-5 STEM assembled book collections and The Walking Classroom STEM series which highlights a variety of STEM careers. 21 FREE Teachers Pay Teachers Downloadable Interactive Science Lessons Teachers Pay Teachers AFA STEM Outreach Chemistry Magic Shows & Recorded Chemistry Demonstrations Contact Stacey Lazzelle to schedule magic shows. Virtual presentations for non-local schools are available. For recorded chemistry demos visit: STEM K-12 Silver USAFA STEM Chemistry Physics is Phun Demonstrations Contact Sandy Lamb to schedule these interactive, hair-raising demonstrations. STEM Professional Development We support monthly PALS and eleSTEMary workshops by supplying teacher materials. Please visit these sites for a complete schedule: PALS and eleSTEMary Botball Coding Training January PD delivered by the chemistry department June Biotechnology PD delivered by the biology faculty Science Standards Implementation Institutes Virtual Audience with an Astronaut Sessions United States Air Force Academy STEM Outreach partners with the Space Foundation to bring classes and virtual interactions with retired astronaut Digger Carey. Mr. Carey discusses his schooling, astronaut preparation, missions in space and future space careers. Energy Camp for 10 Year Olds Teachers can recommend 10-year-old students to attend a November energy themed camp. This 2-day free camp is packed with tons of exciting energy activities and student take-home materials LEGACY Craftsman Camps Following an application process, 12 students per 11–15-year-old age level are selected for free LEGACY Craftsman day camps which occur at the beginning of June. The week is filled with a variety of STEM activities, interactions with scientists and engineers and a Friday field trip. The application window runs from Jan 1st – Mar 1st. To apply go to: http://wpafbstem.com/pages/legacy_afa.html Research Center Tours School group tours will be available on a limited basis and restricted to one bus. Support for School STEM Days or STEM Nights Depending on cadet and staff availability, demos and hands-on activities can support school-wide events. Contact Us Sandy Lamb USAFA STEM Coordinator (719) 333-8990 sandra.lamb.ctr@afacademy.af.edu CONTACT US FOR PROGRAM DATES AND AVAILABILITY STEM OUTREACH EMAIL STEM OUTREACH ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.