Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Information Technology UCIT right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow IT College Contacts Diversity and Inclusion Sitemap Services right arrow down arrow Student Hardware Software right arrow down arrow Student Software Productivity (Students) right arrow down arrow Student Printing with Wepa Computer Labs App & Web Development Research Computing Services Connectivity (Visitors) IT NEXT Get Help right arrow down arrow Report an issue Student Quickstart Guide ResNet Documentation Center Home » About UC » IT@UC IT@UC Quick Links Password Self Service Search the Knowledge Base Get Help Student Get IT IT Services Status IT College Contacts Latest News Log into UC DocuSign with Your UC Username and Password right arrow down arrow Effective Monday, May 23, at 5:15 a.m., you will need to use your UC username and password when you sign into a university-wide DocuSign account on DocuSign.com. No interruptions to DocuSign service are planned or expected as part of this change. What to expect Access to WebEx ends for most of the university Thursday, May 5, 2022. right arrow down arrow Access to your UC WebEx account ends Thursday, May 5, 2022. You will no longer be able to use WebEx for your web conferencing needs unless: You are a faculty member in the College of Medicine (COM). WebEx access ends for COM faculty Friday, June 3, 2022. You or someone in your area received confirmation of an approved request to continue using WebEx. You can access previously recorded WebEx sessions in Kaltura, UC's enterprise video repository. View Kaltura how-to instructions in the IT@UC Knowledge Base. Download Webex Recordings from Kaltura. View more about web conferencing tools available to students. Don't Fall for These Phishy Tricks right arrow down arrow Phishing emails are one of the most common cybersecurity threats. With about 319 billion emails sent and received each day, users need to be on high alert for phishing attacks. According to Proofpoint’s 2021 State of the Phish report, 75% of organizations around the world experienced a phishing attack in 2020. 74% of attacks targeting US businesses succeeded. But knowing that phishing emails are out there and dangerous is not enough. It’s important to be able to recognize one. View these tips from the University of Cincinnati's Office of Information Security. View tips from UC's Office of Information Security. Technology and Remote Access right arrow down arrow Access to technology and a reliable internet connection are just two of the things you need when learning remotely. Here are our recommendations to help you make the most of remote learning. View remote IT resources for students. Update to the Latest Version of Microsoft To Do right arrow down arrow Microsoft will be moving Microsoft To Do’s backend to a more efficient service. For the best experience across all your devices, and to avoid any issues with cross-device syncing, you will need to update to the latest version. Update mobile and desktop To Do apps to version 2.60 or higher before February 15, 2022. For additional assistance, please open a support ticket via uc.edu/ithelp. Microsoft Visio now available within Office 365! right arrow down arrow We're pleased to announce that Microsoft Visio is now available within Office 365. This is the online version, which allows viewing, creating, and editing basic diagrams. Get started today by navigating to the Visio app from the Office 365 app launcher! Get real-time status of IT services in the IT@UC Services Status module. right arrow down arrow Get real-time status of select IT services. Subscribe to receive automated status updates via email. The IT Services Status module provides real-time updates on 15 essential IT services. IT@UC plans to add additional systems to the module as part of a year-long project to automate IT services status information through the IT@UC Service portal. You can sign up to receive automated service status notifications via email. View more about the IT Services Status module. View all Information Technology news Sign up to receive our monthly newsletter Get Started Are you a new student? We've got a Quickstart Guide to make it easy: Student Quickstart Guide Student IT Services Student GetIT – online ordering system for IT services (requires UC login) Hardware & Software discounts – student hardware and software discounts and software support Information Security – document center, policies, standards, guidelines, and procedures Productivity – Wifi, email, OneDrive, Canopy tools, printing View all services Faculty and Staff IT Services NOTICE: Content geared toward current UC faculty and staff is now available on UC’s intranet, Bearcats Landing. If you were redirected to this homepage and are looking for the following information, please select the link from the list below or go to our new Bearcats Landing site (UC login required). About Billing + Rates & Bundled Rates Application & Website Development Project Management UCSIM Connectivity (Faculty & Staff) Echo360 Locations & Contacts eClassrooms Enterprise Academic Technology Exam Grading Faculty and Staff Hardware & Software Fac/Staff Quickstart Guide Governance IT Next – Network & Telephone Refresh Project IT Next – Phone Schedule Learning Technology Research Computing Services + UCScienceNet + High Performance Computing + FAQs Researcher Quickstart Guide University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top