By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Syracuse Abroad Madrid In this Section First-Semester Option Madrid, Spain Come study abroad in Madrid, a sophisticated city known for its fascinating history of intersecting cultures, art and architecture, excellent food, colorful fiestas and teeming plazas. At Syracuse's center in Madrid, you can take courses toward your major along with unique classes that take full advantage of the rich cultural resources of the city and region. You don’t need to know Spanish to apply to this program, as it offers the opportunity to study the language at whatever level is appropriate for you. First-semester study abroad available. Begin Your Application Syracuse Madrid Courses Syracuse Madrid classes are based in the vibrant heart of the city. You’ll be able to explore a range of topics across disciplines, and you can expect a curriculum that is rigorous, innovative and distinguished by the same exceptional standards that apply in every other aspect of a Syracuse University academic experience. Your courses may fulfill curricular requirements so you can stay on track to graduate on time. Study in Depth Each Syracuse Abroad center offers depth in particular areas of study. At Syracuse Madrid, these include: Spanish language, history and culture Women's, gender and sexuality studies European business and politics History of art Psychology Engineering Health and society Sciences Sociology Communication Wondering if Syracuse Madrid is the right fit for you? Refine your Syracuse Abroad options to discover the program that best fits your academic goals. Semester Programs Link The semester programs offer Spanish language courses at the beginner, intermediate, and advanced levels, along with a broad selection of courses taught in English. In and out of the classroom, you’ll be swept up in the energy as you explore, discover and learn in this beautiful city. Summer Programs Link Create your own program by choosing from an array of courses, including Spanish, LGBT studies, and psychology. Travel around Spain, visit Madrid’s art museums and attend the theater and concerts. Or experience the Spanish workplace by doing an internship with a local business. (3-6 credits) Travel with Purpose Link Your Syracuse Madrid semester launches with one of several exciting traveling signature seminars. These 11-day, 3-credit courses give you firsthand knowledge of the region and its history, cultures and politics. At Home in Madrid Link Your Syracuse Abroad experience is enhanced through your housing options. In Madrid, you can live with a local family or in a residence hall. Both options give you a chance to be part of a community, practice Spanish and share experiences with new friends World Ready. Career Ready. Link Interested in an internship in Madrid? Use this as an opportunity to apply classroom lessons to real work situations, explore career options and develop professional skills. Our on-site internship coordinator will work with you to find the placement that best suits your interests and qualifications through established relationships in many business sectors of Madrid. Can I Afford to Study Abroad? Link Yes! We work with you to make studying abroad within reach. Your financial aid package may apply to study abroad, plus there are other assistance options, including scholarships, grants and awards. Connect with Syracuse Abroad through general advising sessions or program appointments. Drop-in or schedule a virtual or in-person advising session at SyracuseAbroad@Bird Monday-Friday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Or, schedule an appointment to meet with a Syracuse Abroad program advisor. View all advising options View all advising options. Related Pages Why Syracuse Abroad? Students from all over the world choose Syracuse Abroad for its academic excellence, unique programming and dedicated faculty and staff. Syracuse Abroad offers flexible study options and generous financial aid so you can build the knowledge and skills that will help you succeed anywhere. Requirements and Deadlines Ready to apply? Learn more about requirements, deadlines and what you need to begin your application. Information for Accepted Students Have you already been accepted into a study abroad program? Learn what steps you need to take next! Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy