Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Students About Us People Research News/Events Graduate Certificate in Automotive Engineering Advance your career by earning a graduate certificate in automotive engineering at Clemson University. Choose from over 30 courses in Advanced Powertrains, Vehicle Automation & Electronics, Vehicle Performance, Vehicle Manufacturing & Materials, Systems Integration, and Human Factors. Whether you’re a recent university graduate or industry veteran, earning a certificate in automotive engineering increases your competitiveness, enhances your performance, and helps equip you for the ever-changing nature of the industry. This certificate is a specialized graduate-level credential reflecting knowledge of the most up-to-date research in the field. WHY A CERTIFICATE+ Build your skills, learn from industry experts, and stand out to employers with a certificate from the premier automotive engineering graduate program. Created with professionals in mind, Clemson’s Automotive Engineering Certificate is your competitive edge in an ever-changing world. This graduate-level certificate provides cutting-edge instruction in an affordable, customizable package you can complete at your own pace. ELIGIBILITY+ The automotive engineering graduate certificate is open to anyone with an applicable B.S. degree. Successful candidates are reviewed based on transcripts and experience and do not require an engineering degree. PROGRAM DELIVERY+ Starting in Fall 2021, students can complete the Graduate Certificate in Automotive Engineering in either a traditional, in-person format, OR fully online! Online courses will be offered in an asynchronous format, so you can complete them without interruption to your current work schedule, and with no geographic limitations. The in-person program is offered from the CU-ICAR campus in Greenville, SC. Course offerings will vary slightly for the online certificate; please see the CURRICULUM STRUCTURE section for more information. PREREQUISITES+ Applicants should be familiar with the following concepts: Analytical and numerical problem solving MATLab or other computational software Computer aided drafting (SolidWorks, AutoCAD, or similar) Students without formal instruction in the above may require special permissions for specific courses. CURRICULUM STRUCTURE+ Students choose any four (4) courses from the Automotive Engineering graduate catalog. Click here for full course descriptions (students looking to do the online certificate, please view this page to see which of these courses are available asynchronously online). Note that at least 3 of the 4 courses must be selected from the 8000-level. Students may take up to one course at the 6000-level. Students have the option of specializing in an area of interest, or choosing a sampling from multiple areas. Courses may be completed on a timeline that fits with the student’s schedule. For example, a student may complete the program in one semester by taking four courses simultaneously, they may choose to spread out over two years by taking a single course each semester, or any combination that suits (1 + 3, 2 + 2, etc.) PROGRAM FEES+ The costs for the graduate certificate program are currently $1008 per credit hour + university fees. Students are charged at the time they enroll in the credit hours, however students may work with Clemson University Financial Services department to enroll in a payment plan. GRADING+ Some companies that offer tuition reimbursement for professional development require their employees to receive letter grades for the courses. Students that enroll in the Automotive Engineering Graduate Certificate Program will have a transcript from Clemson University, and all courses included as program options have standard (A±, B±, C±...) grading. Please note that a minimum grade of B or above (B, B+, A-, or A) is required in order for a course to be applied towards the completion of the certificate, per the Clemson University Graduate School. You can find a copy of the Graduate School's Policies and Procedures Handbook HERE. MS/PhD PROGRAMS+ Courses in the Graduate Certificate Program are at the 6000 or 8000 level, meaning they can be applied towards an Automotive Engineering Master’s or Ph.D. degree, should a student decide to continue their education with the department. Acceptance into the Graduate Certificate program does not guarantee acceptance into the M.S. or Ph.D. programs, as the application process is separate. However, the certificate program allows for interaction with experienced faculty and the opportunity to gain skills and experience required for the graduate programs. APPLY NOW+ Apply through the Clemson University Graduate School’s ONLINE APPLICATION. Once you have created an account and begin your application please select “Certificate” programs, and look for the Automotive Engineering Graduate Certificate Program. For students looking to do the traditional, in-person program at the CU-ICAR campus in Greenville, SC, please select program code CERTB-AUE-F). For students that would like to complete the certificate online, please select CERTB-AUE-F-AAC. Applicants will be required to submit a resume and unofficial transcripts. You may also include a personal statement or other supplementary materials, but these are not required. Useful links related to the application process can be found HERE. CONTACT+ Please reach out to us at automotive@clemson.edu! Dr. Srikanth Pilla Program Director Cristina Shorts Program Coordinator Jeremiah Farmer Student Services Coordinator Academic Programs M.S. Curriculum Ph.D. Curriculum Certificate Program Course Descriptions MS Online Contact Us Related Links CU-ICAR Copyright © Clemson University Department of Automotive Engineering | 4 Research Drive, Greenville, S.C. 29607 (864) 283-7220 | Email Us