Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center Presentations and Outreach Workshop and Training Topical Expertise The Gantt Multicultural Center staff is pleased to present on or off campus for both Clemson University & community members to discuss topics around diversity and inclusion. The staff is happy to develop a presentation to meet the needs of your department, organization, class, or group. This could be anything from a 30 minutes presentation to a four hour workshop. Below are workshop and training topics the Gantt team have previously facilitated. Contact cugantt@clemson.edu for additional information. Allyship/Advocacy 1. GOODTalk 2. Identity and Equity 3. LGBTQ+ Ally Training – 2 Parts: Awareness and Empathy, Action and Advocacy 4. Skill-building for Social Change 5. Socially Just Leadership Equity and Inclusion 1. Inclusive Womanhood 2. Implicit Bias and Microaggressions 3. Trans Inclusivity/Trans and Genderqueer Training Intercultural Competence 1. Community Dialogues 2. Intercultural Development Inventory (Workshops and Assessments) 3. Intercultural Conflict Styles (Workshops and Assessments) Home About The Gantts Dialogue Initiatives Intercultural Development Inventory International Festival LGBTQ Programs MLK Celebration Multicultural Programs Presentations and Outreach Contact Us Related Links Diversity and Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Equity Global Engagement Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram