Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center Programs and Events In collaboration with members of the campus and greater Clemson communities, the Gantt Center offers co-curricular programs that build a complex understanding of diversity and social justice, while promoting the richness of diversity and inclusion. It allows for participants to explore multiple ways of knowing and unpack differences. Grill & Greet Grill & Greet is an event that aims to support the social integration and continuation of students into the Clemson and Gantt communities. Grill & Greet is one of our longest standing cultural events; however, in 2007, the inclusion of student tabling and performances took this program to new heights. Currently, numerous multicultural student organizations (including culturally-based fraternities and sororities) host tables to provide individuals the opportunity to learn about campus involvement and peer engagement. There will be free food and beverages, live music, and entertainment! Power of Perspective Panel Series The Gantt Multicultural Center has partnered with the Department of Campus Achievement and Student Empowerment to create a multi-part series that will aim to explore systemic oppression and subsequent inequities in our nation’s history. These sessions will tap into the knowledge and expertise of Clemson faculty members, exploring topics like education, policy, history, and law. Come to learn from the panelists' insights, ask questions, and glean lessons for action in addressing structural oppression. The next Power of Perspective panel will be held in Spring 2021 and cover the topic of interfaith foundations of the US. More information will be shared soon. Access the recording of the panel from July 9th, Independence Day: Land of the Free? here. Access the recording of the panel from July 30, Matter of Policy: Who has Influence? here. Access the recording of the panel from August 27, Education: The Great Equalizer? here. Access the recording of the panel from October 8, Redefining Rural America: What Stories are Hidden? here. Access the recording of the panel from October 27, Electoral College and the Supreme Court: Shapers of a Nation? here. Contact Dr. Kendra Stewart-Tillman ( stewar5@clemson.edu) or DeOnte Brown at ( deonteb@clemson.edu) for more information. Indigenous People’s Day Over the past several years, researchers on Clemson’s campus have committed to identifying and uncovering the history of colonization and slavery directly connected to this campus. In an effort to honor tribal communities that inhabited this land, we recognize Indigenous People’s Day to decolonize the historical narratives, while building awareness about the importance of preserving Native American languages, culture, traditions, and identity. Supporting Native Students: Building Relationships with Native Nations October 12, 2020 from 12:30PM – 1:30PM via Zoom Register here : http://bit.ly/IndigenousClemson Join for this virtual workshop experience! The current Tribal Liaison for the University of Wisconsin System, Dr. Pyawasay-Jennings, will offer insight on how universities can utilize policy to work with Native Nations to build institutional infrastructure to support Native students and create meaningful relationships with Native communities. Dr. Pyawasay-Jennings joins us, again, for our annual Indigenous Peoples Day celebration. Dr. Pyawasay-Jennings lives on the Bad River Reservation in Wisconsin, with her husband and two girls. She is an enrolled member of the Menominee Nation of Wisconsin and currently serves as the Tribal Liaison for the University of Wisconsin System and earned her Ph.D. in Organizational Leadership, Policy, and Development from the College of Education and Human Development at the University of Minnesota, and both her M.S. in Educational Leadership and Policy Analysis and B.A. in Sociology/American Indian Studies from University of Wisconsin-Madison. As an educator and scholar-activist, her passion is to transform educational spaces to create a more just institution. Sponsored by the Gantt Multicultural Center. Contact Jerad Green at jeradg@clemson.edu for more information or accessibility needs. Learn more in the Newstand article. Native American Heritage Month November is Native American Heritage Month and is a time to celebrate rich and diverse cultures, traditions and histories and to acknowledge the important contributions of Native/indigenous people. Native American in the 21 st Century and Ceremonial Sounds presented by: Ryan “Little Eagle” Monday, November 15 th at 6:00pm in the Amphitheater Ryan “Little Eagle” will share an overview of the historical context of the Native American population in the United States of America; offering insight about how the culture is perceived and positioned in the 21 st century. He is an award-winning musical performer and will be sharing some of the sounds he has created as an artist. There is not a registration process; this program is open to students, faculty, staff, and community members. Two-Spirits: Sexuality, Gender, and the Murder of Fred Documentary Screening - A Collaborative Event with Trans Awareness and Visibility Week Tuesday, November 16 th from 8:00pm – 10:00pm in Brackett Hall 100 Join us for the screening of Two-Spirits: Sexuality, Gender, and the Murder of Fred and a discussion about the film afterwards! Public lecture: “Return the National Parks to the Tribes” presented by: David Treuer Thursday, November 18 th from 3:30pm – 4:30pm on ZOOM: https://bit.ly/3bEXfj4 David Treuer is novelist, cultural historian, and creative non-fiction writer who has written four novels, a book of literary criticism, and two works of non-fiction. Treuer is the recipient of a Pushcart Prize, two Minnesota Book Awards, and fellowships from the NEH, Bush Foundation, and the Guggenheim Foundation. His newest book, a massive political and cultural history of Native America since 1890, The Heartbeat of Wounded Knee, was a finalist for both the National Book Award and Carnegie Medal. Recent essays of his have appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The LA Times, Harpers, and The Atlantic. Treuer is a Professor of English at the University of Southern California. Native American Heritage Month is sponsored by the Gantt Multicultural Center, the Clemson University Honors College, National Scholars Program, PAW Journey and Dabo’s All In Team Foundation. Contact Dr. Robert Bryant at rbryan6@clemson.edu with questions. Women's Celebration Month Women’s History Month is a celebration of women’s contributions to history, culture and society and has been observed annually in the month of March in the United States since 1987. In celebration of Women’s History Month 2022 Clemson University is hosting a series of events and activities throughout the month of March. Women’s Celebration Month activities will occur over Zoom (pre-registration may be required) or in person (Clemson’s COVID-19 policy will be implemented). The programs are listed below, and we encourage the campus and local community participation. Please reach out to co-chairs Robert Bryant and Kim Carter with any questions. Women's Celebration Month Activites Donning of the Kente 2022 Donning of the Kente May 11, 2022 | 3 p.m. Hendrix Student Center Ballrooms Donning of the Kente is a multicultural celebration of graduates designed to celebrate the accomplishments of students who have contributed to enhancing diversity and inclusion at Clemson University. The ceremony recognizes the academic, professional, and personal achievements of graduates as they transition into their post-collegiate lives. Rooted in African tradition, Donning of the Kente encourages students to identify a mentor who will present them with a Kente stole. The stole is a symbol of prestige and an official rite of passage. This ceremony is open to both undergraduate and graduate students who will be graduating May, August, or December of 2022. In order to receive the Gantt Stole, you will need to sign up to participate and attend the Donning of the Kente Ceremony. (Space is currently limited to the first 145 participating students). Please RSVP here by Wednesday, April 29 at noon. If you have any questions, please contact Dr. Kendra Stewart-Tillman. Moving Forward: Student Leadership Retreat Moving Forward: Student Leadership Retreat has been designed to help our scholars build capacity for making change on campus and beyond. The purpose of Elevate is to foster brave spaces for undergraduate scholars, across various social identities, to explore topics of values, power, and social change and how they manifest in our daily experiences. Through a “why, how, what” framework – scholars will better understand how to positively enhance our campus community and greater society. Specific information for this year's Moving Forward will be shared once it is updated. The Art of Multicultural Leadership The Art of Multicultural Leadership Retreat is designed to engage student leaders in critical and thought provoking methods to leading cultural and diverse student organizations through team building, active engagement with staff, and leadership development. Students can expect to learn the value of their roles as leaders in their organizations and how they can be effective in their planning processes while learning to work across differences. Staff members and advisers will be active in facilitating activities that allow students to reflect on their own values, strengths, and areas for improvement as leaders. Campus partners will give students valuable resources to help them make a lasting impact on the campus community. After this experience, student leaders will be equipped with knowledge of their roles and how they function, as well as how they can work to support the mission, goals and values of their organizations. Specifically, students will be able to use all of these leadership skills to impact the campus community. Registration Information Coming Soon. Home About The Gantts Dialogue Initiatives Intercultural Development Inventory International Festival LGBTQ Programs MLK Celebration Multicultural Programs Black History Month Hispanic and Latinx Heritage Month Programs and Events Student Outreach and Support Women's Celebration Month Asian Pacific Islander Desi Awareness Month Interfaith Programs Presentations and Outreach Contact Us Related Links Diversity and Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Equity Global Engagement Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram