Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College Main Menu About the College Mission History Leadership Strategic Plan My Columbia College Journey Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion News and Updates Visit Columbia College Awards The Core Curriculum Contemporary Civilization Literature Humanities Art Humanities Music Humanities University Writing Frontiers of Science Global Core Requirement Center for the Core Curriculum Academics Current Bulletin Archived Bulletins Academic Credit Academic Coursework Academic Advising and Support Academic Opportunities Academic Honors, Awards and Prizes Academic Integrity Academic Affairs Advising Berick Center for Student Advising Career Advising Fellowship Advising Financial Aid Advising Global Programs Advising Major Advising Preprofessional Advising Admissions Financial Aid Learn About Columbia Visit Columbia Apply to Columbia Campus Life Undergraduate Student Life Student Resources Supporting the College Audiences Faculty Families Alumni Search Home / Academics / Academic Credit Academic Credit After the study-abroad period, Columbia College assesses the work you have done while abroad and awards credits on your transcript. Students in Columbia-sponsored programs receive direct Columbia credit and the courses and grades appear on your academic transcript. These include: Reid Hall, Paris; the Berlin Consortium for German Studies; the Kyoto Center for Japanese Studies; and the Tsinghua University program in Beijing. Credit from approved programs is certified as transfer credit toward the degree when you return to the College and send in your transcripts and other supporting materials. Course titles and grades for these programs do not appear on your transcript and the grades are not factored into your GPA. However, your work abroad is considered part of your overall academic record at Columbia. The following guidelines apply: No credit is granted for courses in business, education, journalism, or other subjects that at Columbia are taught only in professional schools. Credit is not given for courses taken on a Pass/Fail basis. The minimum grade necessary for transfer of credit is C-. The last two semesters required for the degree must be taken while enrolled in the College for study on this campus or in one of Columbia’s programs abroad. Any exceptions require special permission from the Committee on Academic Standing. For students on approved programs, please have your program send your transcript to: Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement Columbia University 606 Kent Hall Mail Code 3948 Columbia University 1140 Amsterdam Ave New York, NY 10027 USA Notification Dean Scott Carpenter will contact you when your credits have been processed. Academics Current Bulletin Archived Bulletins Academic Credit Your Major Premedical Students Academic Coursework Academic Advising and Support Academic Opportunities Academic Honors, Awards and Prizes Academic Integrity Academic Affairs Columbia College Columbia University in the City of New York Facebook Twitter Instagram Contact Us 208 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2805 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 ColumbiaCollege@columbia.edu 212-854-2441 College Offices Alumni Affairs and Development Berick Center for Student Advising Center for Career Education Center for the Core Curriculum Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement Double Discovery Center Eric H. Holder Jr. Initiative for Civil and Political Rights Financial Aid & Educational Financing Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Student Life Core to Commencement © 2022 Columbia University | Privacy Policy | Notice of Non-Discrimination | Terms of Use | Accessibility | University Home Page