Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Graduate Student Government Grad Student Government right arrow down arrow About us right arrow down arrow GSG Executive Board GSG Constitution right arrow down arrow GSG Bylaws GSG Member Groups List Awards right arrow down arrow Group Budget Awards Group & Community Grant Awards Conference Awards GSG Excellence Awards right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Risk Management Awareness Award GSG Research Fellowship Awards Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Talk to Us Programs right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Orientation and Welcome right arrow down arrow GSA Officer Orientation Home » Campus Life » Graduate Student Government » Talk to Us Talk to Us Our office is located in the Steger Student Life Center, Room 683 . We have a student lounge space with a kitchen that students can make use of. We are open every afternoon from 12 PM - 5 PM. Feel free to stop by for a quick chat, or to grab a bite, or even enjoy the beautiful view of Campus from the balcony! Contact GSG officers for more ways to get involved. Community Outreach Form The community outreach form is designed to draw attention to graduate student needs. If you report a need or concern using this form, the GSG will do its very best to advocate on your behalf. Please tell us about your experiences as a graduate student - what has been going well and also what has not gone well. Tell us about issues that are important to you and suggest ways that we could make life at UC better for graduate students. We are here to advocate for you, support you, and assist you in any way possible. Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top