Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Minnesota Home Connect Chapters Minnesota Minnesota Minnesota Minnesota The Minnesota Chapter consists of over 1,500 alumni, parents, and friends and has been active since the early 1990’s. It has sought to connect the BC community through a variety of activities, including Always an Eagle, service projects, outings to sporting events and more. It is a robust group of alumni, parents, friends, and students that has time and time again shown how connected the BC community is, no matter how long we have known each other. The Minnesota Chapter strives to be a beacon to the Heights. Key events include: Game Watches Always an Eagle Community service projects 1,557 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us Minnesota Chapter Facebook Page Minnesota Chapter LinkedIn Page Meet Your Chapter Leader Roshan Rajkumar ’95 Lives in: Twin Cities Major: Political Science and Theology Occupation: Trial Attorney - Civil Defense Litigation Favorite BC Memory: Serving Senior year Spring Break in Kingston, Jamaica with the Ignacio Volunteers. It was life changing and hit home why a Boston College education was priceless. Why I got involved: I loved my undergraduate experience on the Heights, and believe by doing so I stay connected with BC. Being part of the alumni leadership in Minnesota has kept me grounded in my BC education, life-lessons learned, and the virtue of men and women in service for others. The number of amazing BC alumni, students and parents I have met has truly enriched my journey since leaving the Heights. Local Favorites: With 10,000+ lakes, my favorite remains Lake of the Isles (Minneapolis). My favorite restaurant is 112 Eatery. My favorite patio is W.R. Frosts (St. Paul). My favorite hobbies are singing in the Basilica Cathedral Choir and teaching/playing tennis. Fun Fact: My wife grew up in South Bend, Indiana, and loves Notre Dame, though she is a Purdue Boilermaker. We have a house divided during BC v. ND games. Chapter Volunteers DJ Adams ’13 Lindsay Jansen ’05, JD’09 Tom Morgan ’07 Alex Stuart ’07 Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Taylor Mooney '17 Contact: taylor.mooney@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok