COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Mathematics, Minor MinorMathematics All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Mathematics, Statistics and Physics A minor in mathematics from Wichita State is an ideal addition to many degrees, particularly those in engineering, science and technology, and helps equip you for success in graduate school and the workforce. Learn how mathematics is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum To complete the 16-credit-hour mathematics minor, you'll take Calculus I, II and III—and select at least one additional upper-level course. View the curriculum Careers Whether you want to pursue graduate study or enter the workforce, a mathematics degree from Wichita State will prepare you for high-paying, high-demand careers in a variety of fields, such as: Government: mathematicians and statisticians Healthcare: biostatisticians Research and development Insurance company actuaries Education Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Mathematics Accounting Computer Science Management Finance Philosophy 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©