Skip to site alert. Skip to content Student Health on Haven After-Hours Care Emergencies Student Health Portal Search About Us About Us Our Team Appointments and Services Advanced Access Scheduling Confidentiality Emergencies After-Hours Care News and Announcements Events Contact Us Advanced Directive Patient Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Counseling Services Insurance and Administration Medical Services Well-Being and Health Promotion Our Services Our Services Acupuncture Acute and Chronic Illness Treatment Laboratory Services Men's Health Nutrition Services Occupational Exposures PrEP - Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis for HIV Preventive Services Travel Medicine Transgender Health Vaccinations Women's Health Groups and Gathering Spaces Individual Counseling Psychiatric Evaluation Well-Being Strategy Sessions AIMS Appointment for Substance Use We provide a full range of primary care medical services, counseling services, and health promotion programming to support your well-being. Outreach and Programs Outreach and Programs Addiction Information and Management Strategies (AIMS) AIMS Mini-Grants Campus Connect Training Mental Health Rounds Motivational Interviewing Training Naloxone Training Queer and Ally Partnership Social Host (SoHo) Alcohol Training Well-Being Curriculum Infusion Well-Being and Health Promotion Programs Student Health provides programs and training opportunities to support and extend your health sciences education and training at CUIMC. Insurance and Administration Insurance and Administration Pre-Registration Requirements Health Insurance Waiving Coverage Enrollment and Fees Supplemental Insurance for Clinical Students Dental Benefits Vision Benefits Insurance FAQ Contact the Team Medical Records Request We are here to provide help with insurance information, reimbursements or billing concerns, and other administrative needs. Resources and Support Resources and Support COVID-19 Resources CUIMC My SSP - 24/7 Support via Chat & Phone Black Well-Being and Ally Resources Asian and AAPI Students Disability Services Helping a Friend or Student in Distress International Students LGBTQ+ Students Sexual and Reproductive Health Students with Children Support for Survivors of Sexual Violence Veterans COVID-19 Resources COVID-19 Vaccine Information for Students COVID-19 Testing for CUIMC Students How to Isolate or Quarantine Coping During a Pandemic COVID-19 Student Service Corps (CSSC) Student Health on Haven is committed to connecting you to resources to support all dimensions of graduate student well-being. You are here Home > Resources and Support > COVID-19 Resources > COVID-19 Vaccine Information for Students COVID-19 Resources COVID-19 Vaccine Information for Students COVID-19 Testing for CUIMC Students How to Isolate or Quarantine Coping During a Pandemic COVID-19 Student Service Corps (CSSC) CUIMC My SSP - 24/7 Support via Chat & Phone Black Well-Being and Ally Resources Asian and AAPI Students Disability Services Helping a Friend or Student in Distress International Students LGBTQ+ Students Sexual and Reproductive Health Students with Children Support for Survivors of Sexual Violence Veterans COVID-19 Vaccine Information for Students Updated: April 19, 2022 To protect the health and well-being of the Columbia University community and in accordance with Columbia University policy, COVID-19 vaccination is mandatory for all University students, faculty, and staff—this includes officers of instruction, officers of research, officers of the libraries, student officers, officers of administration, union and non-union support staff. Additionally, Columbia requires booster doses for all faculty, staff, and students who meet the criteria for eligibility. Columbia University accepts all vaccines authorized/approved by the US Food and Drug Administration or the World Health Organization. For more information on approved vaccines, read more about FAQs Regarding COVID-19 Vaccinations. You may request religious or medical exemptions, in accordance with New York State public health laws. You must complete the vaccine process at least 14 days before first accessing any University facilities or participating in in-person, University-approved activities to ensure you are considered fully vaccinated at the time of first access. All vaccine documentation must be uploaded to our Student Health Portal. Booster Eligibility In general, you are eligible for a booster if one of the following applies: It's been 5 months since the last dose of your initial Pfizer or Moderna series (or WHO-authorized vaccine). It's been 2 months since your initial J & J vaccination. Important: There is currently no University deadline for uploading booster dose documentation. The University will revisit its policies regarding enforcement later this summer. Vaccines/Boosters Received from CUIMC Student Health on Haven Student Health on Haven is offering COVID-19 booster vaccines for eligible CUIMC students by appointment only; availability is limited so please schedule by visiting the Student Health Portal. Once logged in, click on ‘Appointments’, and select ‘COVID-19 Vaccine Booster’. From there, please choose a Moderna or Pfizer booster. Additional booster clinics will be announced as they are scheduled. For questions, email studenthealthservice@cuimc.columbia.edu. If you received a vaccine and/or booster from CUIMC Student Health on Haven, your records will be updated automatically and you will not need to upload records. You may view verification at any time by accessing the ‘Immunizations’ section of our online patient portal. Vaccines/Boosters Received from Other Sites Booster appointments can be made via vaccinetogetherny.org or through your Connect account (if you use ColumbiaDoctors providers). Additionally, booster doses are available at many pharmacies and other locations in the metropolitan New York City area. The COVID Vaccine Finder by State can help you find a convenient location in your community. You may also text your local zipcode to 438829 (GETVAX). You will receive a text with a link re: COVID Vax location information. Be sure to bring your CDC vaccination card with you so the booster may be entered. If you use the Excelsior Plus app, this will automatically become part of your record. If you received a vaccine/booster from any site other than Student Health on Haven (including any other University-run vaccination site), you must upload your vaccine documentation in the ‘Medical Clearances’ section of the Student Health Portal. Acceptable proof of vaccination includes, but is not limited, to the following: CDC COVID-19 Vaccine Card WHO Vaccine Booklet Documentation provided by a health care professional/organization/country You must submit all documentation in English or accompanied by a certified translation (at the student’s expense). Verification of documentation is at the sole discretion of Student Health on Haven. Additional information or documentation may be requested and if requested must be provided in order to verify a submission. Uploading Your Documentation All CUIMC students should use our Student Health Portal to upload vaccination documentation, including any applicable booster dose information. Student Health on Haven will review the documentation and reach out to students if it needs additional information or if the documentation submitted is insufficient. Download Instructions on How to Upload Your Vaccination Documentation (PDF) All records must include the following: Student Name Date of Birth Name of vaccine received Date of vaccination(s) Provider name, signature, or stamp If you have trouble accessing an approved vaccine, you can receive the vaccine from the University at no out-of-pocket cost. Until you are fully vaccinated, you will be required to comply with additional COVID-19 testing requirements and other preventive measures in place at the time. Religious and Medical Exemptions You may request an exemption from the vaccination requirement for specific medical or religious reasons. Students wishing to request an exemption must submit the required request forms to the Student Health portal. You must submit your exemption request at least 30 business days before your first planned campus access. We will not expedite late submissions. All exemption requests are reviewed by an expert panel and all students submitting a request will receive a response, in writing, within 2 weeks of their submission. Requests without sufficient documentation will be denied. All requests are considered and reviewed, but approval is not guaranteed. Decisions are final and are not subject to appeal. Submit a Medical Exemption Request Submit a Religious Exemption Request Privacy Policy Student Health on Haven makes every effort to protect the privacy of submitted information. Please review our Vaccination Status Privacy Notice for more details. Columbia University Irving Medical Center About Us Insurance and Administration Our Services Outreach and Programs Resources and Support Student Health Portal Columbia University Irving Medical Center Student Health on Haven Tower 2, 100 Haven Avenue 2nd Floor, Suite 230 New York, NY 10032 United States 212-305-3400 Follow Us Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top