Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Ph.D. Funding External Funding Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fund Fellowships Graduate School Skip to Navigation Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fund Fellowships The Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fund is a potential source of external funding for graduate studies in the humanities, social and natural sciences. The Fund was created for the purpose of funding advanced education and graduate study grants. The Graduate School is eligible to forward three nominations for consideration. Fellowships cover the cost of tuition and provide an annual $18,000 stipend for living expenses. Dolores Zohrab Liebmann was the daughter of Krikor Zohrab, a prominent Armenian intellectual, writer and statesman. She supported students and educational and charitable organizations during her lifetime. Application Conditions: Qualifications, Details and Process Application checklist Website with Guidelines Requirements Fellowships are available to students who are currently enrolled in and pursuing a graduate degree at a designated institution of higher learning located in the United States of America. The program of study being pursued by the candidate may include any recognized field of study in the humanities, social sciences or natural sciences. The candidate must have received a baccalaureate degree at the time the fellowship would commence and have an outstanding undergraduate record. The candidate must demonstrate a need for financial assistance. The candidate must be a citizen of the United States of America. The candidate may be of any national descent or background. Deadlines Internal deadline: Friday, January 15, 2021 at 5:00 pm to Thomas A. Lewis. External deadline: January 22, 2021 (up to 3 candidates will be submitted as Brown applicants). Questions and applications should be addressed to Thomas A. Lewis. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Student Support Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants