Skip to main content This content requires JavaScript. See how to enable JavaScript in your browser or view an alternate version of this content. Center for Astrophysics Harvard & Smithsonian How can we expand the limits of human knowledge further into the unknown? The Center for Astrophysics is a collaboration between the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and Harvard College Observatory that’s designed to ask big questions about the universe, build the tools needed to answer them, and share the resulting discoveries with the world. Does life exist outside our solar system? “Remarkably, 21st-century science and engineering may soon answer that question. The new Giant Magellan Telescope, under construction in Chile, promises to reveal much we don’t yet know about conditions on distant worlds, orbiting distant stars, including the potential discovery of life elsewhere in the universe.” Charles Alcock, Former Director Center for Astrophysics Big Questions See All The Big Questions Does life exist outside of the solar system? How do stars and planets form and evolve? What do black holes look like? What is the universe made of? Research Topics See all research topics Learn More Discover the Center for Astrophysics Big Question What do black holes look like? Meet the Scientist Sara Issaoun Current Night Sky Featured News TEMPO Air Pollution Sensor Treks Toward Satellite Integration Research Project Astrophysics Data System (ADS) Research Project YouthAstroNet Meet the Scientist Sheperd Doeleman Show Me Something Amazing Featured News The Magnetic Field in Milky Way "Bones" Fellowship Programs Meet the Scientist Razieh Emami Meibody Big Question What happened in the early universe? The whole universe, delivered to your inbox. Sign up for our newsletter to share in the excitement of advancing humanity’s understanding of the universe. Our subscriber network gets the first look at exclusive Center for Astrophysics content. First Name Last Name Email Address Email powered by Mailchimp Privacy Policy | Terms of Use Footer Column Two Big Questions Research People Facilities & Technology Opportunities About Footer Column Three News Events Resources Support Our Science Professional Conduct Footer Column Four Current Night Sky Careers Contact Us Intranet Center for Astrophysics Footer Privacy Facebook Center for Astrophysics Facebook Twitter Center for Astrophysics Twitter YouTube Center for Astrophysics Youtube Channel LinkedIn Center for Astrophysics LinkedIn The Center for Astrophysics | Harvard & Smithsonian The Center for Astrophysics | Harvard & Smithsonian keyword Search Support Our Science keyword-mobile Search Support Our Science Main navigation Home Big Questions Research People Facilities & Technology Academics & Opportunities About Resources Utility Menu News Events Main navigation Home Big Questions Research People Facilities & Technology Academics & Opportunities About Resources keyword-voyager Search Utility Menu News Events Support Our Science