Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Senior Administration About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Senior Administration>President's Council>Mack B. Rhoades, IV Mack B. Rhoades, IV Vice President & Director of Intercollegiate Athletics Mack B. Rhoades, IV Vice President & Director of Intercollegiate Athletics Mr. Mack B. Rhoades, IV, joined Baylor as vice president and director of athletics in July 2016. Since his arrival, he has led national searches for three head coaching positions, ultimately bringing to Baylor Matt Rhule (football) in 2016, Casie Maxwell (equestrian) in 2017, and Brian Boland (men’s tennis) in 2018. Mr. Rhoades has organized a team of dynamic administrators and restructured the athletics department to maximize efficiencies across teams. His concept of Preparing Champions for Life has provided the ongoing vision for Baylor Athletics, which aims to bolster the student-athlete experience by focusing on the areas of academic achievement, athletic success, character formation, and spiritual growth. In 2018, Rhoades announced 16 department-wide strategic initiatives, including a master plan for future facilities. These initiatives were established through a comprehensive review of the athletic department with the purpose of preparing student-athletes for their endeavors beyond their time at Baylor. From April 2015 to July 2016, Mr. Rhoades served as director of intercollegiate athletics at the University of Missouri, where he oversaw the university’s 20 Southeastern Conference programs, 300 employees, 550 student-athletes, and an annual operating budget of $92 million. He also previously served as vice president for athletics at the University of Houston and as athletic director for the University of Akron. A native of Tucson, Arizona, Mr. Rhoades graduated from the University of Arizona with a bachelor’s degree in health sciences. He earned a master’s degree in athletics administration/sports management from Indiana University. He and his wife, Amy, have three daughters: Nicolette, Natalie, and Noelle. More Information Baylor Athletics Senior Administration Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor