Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) Program Gain the knowledge and practical experience to become a generalist social worker Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Health Professions and Sciences Department(s) Social Work, Schl of 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Facilitate Solutions as a Generalist Social Worker Social workers are professionals who care about people, want to assist in improving the well-being of others, and want their work to make a difference through services provided to individuals, families, groups, communities, and society. Social work is an academic discipline that promotes social change, and empowerment for their clients in a practice-based field. Few occupations can match the diverse range of opportunities available to social work professionals. BACHELOR OF SOCIAL WORK AT UCF The Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) program affords students the opportunity to learn how to engage, assess, and intervene with clients to help enhance their quality of life and achieve social justice. Students need to apply and be accepted to this limited-access program. There are opportunities for students to enhance their study by earning certificates and minors within this program of study. This well-planned program exposes students to the latest social work theory with practical application in a variety of social service agencies including healthcare, schools, child welfare, criminal justice and more. Field Education Field education is a central component of the BSW curriculum. The internship provides the opportunity for students to apply and integrate classroom learning into practice for a total of 420 hours which averages out to 28 hours per week. The internship may be completed on a full-time or part-time basis. Students are placed at community partner organizations through our Field Education Department in their final semester(s) as a BSW student. The BSW is a limited access major, requiring a separate application. Please go to the BSW website for more information about admission requirements, prerequisite classes, and the application process. Optional Certificates and Minors: Aging Studies Certificate Aging Studies Minor Children’s Services Certificate Nonprofit Management Minor Spanish for Social Work Certificate Highlights 1/3 of the BSW Class of 2020 were first-generation graduates 16% projected growth in the social work profession between 2016-2026, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics 200+ Central Florida agencies offer internships for BSW students Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Human Behavior and Social Environment II Further your skills and knowledge in understanding how human behavior and the environment impacts individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social Work Perspectives on Social Justice Explore social welfare, programs, and services, including concerns impacting human needs in society. Practice I: Understanding Generalist Practice Apply culturally-competent social work practice using the Code of Ethics while refining your interviewing skills. Micro Level Roles and Interventions Understand social work practice as it pertains to individuals, groups, and families utilizing various models of interventions through the psychosocial, behavioral, and crisis models of intervention. Social Work and The Law Analyze the legal system with focus on the roles that social workers may play within courts and other legal processes. Children's Services Learn about practice considerations in providing services to children and families by identifying a variety of problems such as child abuse, neglect, childhood trauma, and family dynamics. View All Social Work Courses That You'll Take My experience both in and outside of the classroom as a BSW student was my foundation into this field that I truly love. I attribute my strong advocacy and compassion-driven work skills to the many professors, diverse classes and mentorship offered to me during my BSW journey.” — Massiel Hernandez, ‘17 BSW, ‘18 MSW Social Work Skills You'll Learn How to implement ethical & professional practice Human rights & social, economic, & environmental justice Engage, assess, intervene, & evaluate with individuals, families, groups, communities, & organizations Provide services that are research-informed & evidence based. Career Opportunities Court Advocate Developmental Disabilities Specialist Foster Care/Adoption Worker Hospital Social Worker Hospice Social Worker Community Advocacy & Outreach International Social Worker Policy Analyst School Social Worker Substance Abuse Case Manager Rehabilitation Specialist Victims Services Social Worker Show More Career Opportunities College of Health Professions and Sciences News Check out more stories Health & Medicine Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCF The program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. Colleges & Campus UCF Opens New Huntington’s Disease Multispecialty Clinic Located in Research Park, the new clinic offers multidisciplinary care from the College of Medicine, School of Social Work, and College of Health Professions and… Community UCF Class Spotlight: Introduction to American Sign Language In honor of National American Sign Language Day, April 15, here’s a look at a course — plus an instructional video — that teaches students… Health & Medicine UCF Students Team up to Provide Care at Apopka Farmworkers Clinic For the first time since the pandemic, the clinic has returned to in-person services at full capacity. Social Work Alumnus Starts Nonprofit for the Homeless Eric Camarillo BSW’16, MNM’19 and CEO of nonprofit Service and Love Together (SALT) Outreach, was awarded a $250,000 grant from the City of Orlando in September 2020 to establish a mobile outreach center for homeless individuals in Central Florida during COVID-19. Learn more about his work Degree Search College of Health Professions and Sciences programs Bachelors Social Work (BSW) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Degree Requirements Students who are pending Social Work and are admitted to the program must adopt the most current catalog. Residency Requirement consists of at least 30 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF School of Social Work. Students should complete the General Education Program and the Common Program Prerequisite Requirements before beginning the Social Work Program. Students entering the social work program and completing the program prerequisites including Statistics are required to earn a minimum of "C" (2.0) in each course. Students should consult with a BSW program advisor. The courses designated in sections 1 (general education) and 2 (common program prerequisites) below may be taken at a college or university other than UCF, and should usually be completed in the first 60 hours. Students meeting the six hours of cultural diversity requirement must earn a minimum of "C" (2.0) in each course. A minimum overall GPA of 2.5 is required in all Social Work courses with a minimum grade of "C" (2.0) in each course. Students must earn an overall GPA of 2.5 for entry into field education (SOW 4510 or SOW 4941 part-time) and to be eligible for graduation from the Social Work Program. Students must complete all the requirements listed in 1-11 below. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 0 Total Credits Complete all of the following Choose ONE of the following courses, or see advisor for more options: STA 2014 - Principles of Statistics Credit Hours: 3 GEP STA 2023 - Statistical Methods I Credit Hours: 3 GEP *Required Principles of Statistics Core Requirements: Advanced Level 45 Total Credits Complete the following: SOW3284 - Social Work Perspectives on Social Justice (3) SOW3104 - Human Behavior and the Social Environment I (3) SOW3300 - Practice I:Generalist Practice in Social Work (3) SOW3111 - Human Behavior and the Social Environment II (3) SOW3352 - Practice II: Interpersonal Skills in Social Work (3) SOW3401 - Social Work Research (3) SOW3620 - Culturally Competent Social Work Practice (3) SOW4730 - Documentation in Social Work Practice (3) SOW4232 - Social Welfare Policies and Issues (3) SOW4341 - Micro-Level Roles and Interventions in Social Work (3) SOW4343 - Macro-Level Roles and Interventions in Social Work (3) SOW4522 - Field Education Seminar (3) SOW4510 - Field Education (9) Cultural Diversity Requirement 6 Total Credits Complete at least 2 of the following: ANT4332 - People and Cultures of Latin America (3) ANT2410 - Cultural Anthropology: Global Perspectives, Local Contexts (3) ANT3610 - Language and Culture (3) ASH4404 - Modern China (3) ASH4442 - Modern Japan (3) CPO4303 - Comparative Latin American Politics (3) HUM3401 - Asian Humanities (3) REL3333 - Hinduism (3) REL3363 - Islam (3) JST3401 - Jewish People in Antiquity (3) JST3820 - Modern Israeli Culture (3) LAH3130 - Latin American History I (3) LAH3200 - Modern Latin America (3) LAH3470 - History of the Caribbean (3) AMH3561 - Women in American History I (3) AMH3571 - Black American History I (3) AMH3586 - History of Latinos in the U.S. (3) ANT3302 - Sex, Gender and Culture (3) ANT3311 - Indians of the Southeastern United States (3) SOP3724 - Psychology of Prejudice (3) SYD3700 - Race and Ethnicity (3) EDF2085 - Introduction to Diversity for Educators (3) HSC3593 - HIV Disease: A Human Concern (3) Restricted Electives 6 Total Credits Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: Select six hours of social work electives in consultation with faculty advisor. Grand Total Credits: 57 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida