Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager University Human Resources I-9 Forms Federal Form I-9 The Federal Form I-9 is used to verify the identity and employment authorization of individuals hired for employment in the United States. All U.S. employers must ensure proper completion of the Form I-9 for each individual they hire for employment in the United States. Please click here to view the Form I-9 instructional video. Student Employees All students who work on campus must complete an I-9 Form prior to starting work. The I-9 Form is completed electronically in Workday. Please click here to view the student instructions for completing the I-9 in Workday. An important part of the process is presenting the proper documentation for the I-9 at the HR Service Center. Students can submit the I-9 Form in Workday prior to bringing their I-9 documentation to the HR Service Center. Please refer to The List of Acceptable Documents for guidance on the types of documents required, and please note that all documents presented must be original and unexpired. We are not allowed to accept copies, pictures, or faxes of documents. Remote Form I-9 If an employee will be working remotely for Brown University, that individual will have to complete a remote I-9 Form. For more details on the remote I-9 Form process please contact the HR Service Center via phone: (401) 863-5200 or email: [email protected] HR Service Center I-9 Forms International Community Payroll Resources Process for New Hires Contact Us Also in University Human Resources Benefits Compensation Employee & Labor Relations Annual Staff Evaluations Separating Employees Staff Conflict of Interest and Commitment Recruitment & Staffing Student Employment Talent Development Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Human Resources University Human Resources Brown University Box 1879 350 Eddy Street, 4th floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3175 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat