Skip to site alert. Skip to content Department of Pediatrics About Us Research Education Faculty Patient Care Donate Search Michael Rosenbaum, MD Specialties: Endocrinology, Pediatric Endocrinology, PediatricsMore specialties Accepting New Patients Treats Children Profile Navigation Overview Schedule an Appointment Credentials & Experience Research Overview Areas of Expertise / Conditions Treated Growth Disorder Academic Appointments Professor of Pediatrics and Medicine at CUMC Hospital Affiliations NewYork-Presbyterian Komansky Children's Hospital NewYork-Presbyterian / Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital NewYork-Presbyterian / Weill Cornell Medical Center Gender Male Schedule an Appointment Phone Appointments New and Existing Patients: (212) 769-3070 Connect Patient Portal For existing patients, login to make an appointment, view documentation or contact your care provider. Connect Sign In Credentials & Experience Education & Training Cornell University Medical College, NY BA, 1978 Amherst College MD, 1982 Cornell University Medical College, NY Internship: Babies & Children's Hospital - Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center Residency: Babies & Children's Hospital - Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center Fellowship: New York Hospital - Cornell Medical Center Board Certifications Pediatrics America's Top Doctor NY Top Doctor Research Dr. Rosenbaum’s research interests focus mainly on energy intake and expenditure in relation to body weight regulation in adults and the development and prevention of obesity and its co-morbidities in children. Topics of his over 100 peer-reviewed publications range from crosstalk between the lowly adipocyte and the highest cortical centers of the brain to the molecular physiology of skeletal muscle, genetic regulation of feeding behavior in humans, and the oral and gastrointestinal microbiomes. His grant support has come from the NIH, New York State, and many other sources. He has also authored numerous chapters, reviews and abstracts and has been a frequent op-ed contributor in numerous media outlets. He and his collaborators are extensively quoted and internationally known for their work. Dr. Rosenbaum is a member of the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Diabetes Association, the Obesity Society, and the Society for Pediatric Research and a graduate of the Columbia University Public Voices Program. He has received extensive recognition as a scientist, mentor, and clinician including the 2001 Columbia University Physician of the Year Award, the 2918 TOPS award from The Obesity Society, and over 100 citations among the best physicians in the United States and New York City. Research Interests Clinical Research Obesity Type 2 Diabetes Grants COLUMBIA DIABETES RESEARCH CENTER - Co-Director (Federal Gov) Jul 6 2018 - Jan 31 2023 For a complete list of publications, please visit PubMed.gov Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Research Education Faculty Patient Care Donate Contact Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top