Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Resources right arrow down arrow Student Resources right arrow down arrow Registration right arrow down arrow Online Application for Services Registration FAQ Communication Access Team right arrow down arrow CAT Resources Interpreter/CART/Captioning Request Form Semester Services Request Form Feedback Form Accommodation Form Purpose and Explanation Accessible Technology right arrow down arrow Alternative Format Request Policy and Procedure Alternative Format Request Form Service Animals and Assistance Animals right arrow down arrow Assistance Animal Student Request Form Service Animal and Assistance Animal Policy Housing Accommodation right arrow down arrow Student Housing Accommodation Request Form College-to-Career Partnership Remote Testing Accommodations FAQ COVID-19 Resources for Students Accommodation Form Request Faculty Resources right arrow down arrow Academic Accommodations and Faculty Responsibility COVID-19 Resources for Faculty Policies and Grievance Procedure Electronic Accessibility AR Staff Home » Campus Life » Accessibility Resources » Student Resources » COVID-19 Resources for Students Set Navigation title in component Registration Online Application for Services Registration FAQ Communication Access Team CAT Resources Interpreter/CART/Captioning Request Form Semester Services Request Form Feedback Form Accommodation Form Purpose and Explanation Accessible Technology Alternative Format Request Policy and Procedure Alternative Format Request Form Service Animals and Assistance Animals Assistance Animal Student Request Form Service Animal and Assistance Animal Policy Housing Accommodation Student Housing Accommodation Request Form College-to-Career Partnership Remote Testing Accommodations FAQ COVID-19 Resources for Students Accommodation Form Request COVID-19 Resources for Students Students, We are experiencing truly unique times. To keep you updated, we would like to share the following information concerning our office. Check this webpage regularly for additional information and updates concerning our office and accommodations related to COVID-19. We are Open! If you need to connect with the office you can email our office email: accessresources@uc.edu. The following services are still available: Intake appointments for Fall 2021: We are still taking documentation and scheduling appointments. Please continue to use our Online Application for Services. We are still taking Accommodation Coordination appointments and may meet with you by phone, Virtually, or in person upon request. Reach out to your Accommodation Coordinator, either Michael Southern, Matthew Sauer or Whitney Saunders to schedule an appointment. Dr. Matthew Sauer: matthew.sauer@uc.edu Works with students within these colleges: Arts and Sciences, Social Work, CECH, and Adult Learning Center Whitney Saunders: whitney.saunders@uc.edu Works with students within these colleges: Allied Health, Business, CCM, DAAP, Engineering, Nursing, and Pharmacy Michael Southern: michael.southern@uc.edu Works with students within these colleges: College of Law and College of Medicine If you have general questions, please feel free to contact us at: accessreources@uc.edu Remote Testing Accommodations: In collaboration with testing services we've created a Remote Testing Accommodation FAQ's page. Please refer to this page for information on testing accommodations you may have available to you and how to utilize them. Alternative Formats and Digital Accessibility: We are still accepting requests for alternative formats. Continue to use our Alternative Format Request Form to make requests, but check out these additional resources: Canvas Ally: Alternative formats for your readings uploaded to BlackBoard or Canvas are immediately available to you directly in Canvas. Communication Access Team: We are working with faculty and local technical personnel to provide closed captioning for videos and other pre-recorded media during our transition to remote instruction. Please direct questions or inquiries about closed captioning of course videos to Katheryn Lane at katheryn.lane@uc.edu. All live lectures will be captioned remotely. For live remote CART, students will be provided with a link prior to the start of class. The captions can be accessed via, computer, laptop, tablet, or phone, at any time during class. As always, students will be emailed a transcript within 48 hours. If you have any questions, please contact Molly Adams at molly.adams@uc.edu If you need remote ASL/English interpreting services, please complete the online interpreter request form and our team will work to provide video remote interpreting. Additionally, if you need lectures interpreted – into either ASL or spoken English – our team is able to work directly with you to provide those services. For additional information or questions, please contact Katherine Vance at katherine.vance@uc.edu. Accessibility Resources University of Cincinnati 210 University Pavilion PO Box 210213 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0213 Tel: (513) 556-6823 Fax: (513) 556-1383 Email: accessresources@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Accessibility Resources University of Cincinnati 210 University Pavilion PO Box 210213 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0213 Tel: (513) 556-6823 Fax: (513) 556-1383 Email: accessresources@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top