Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu PSA CAFLS Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Research Extension About Giving Programs County Offices Who We Are Publications Resources Contact Resources and Services Agricultural Service Laboratory Provides analytical and diagnostic testing of soil, feed and forage, plant tissue, irrigation water, animal waste, and compost. animal waste | compost | feed & forages | irrigation water | plant tissue | soil testing | solutions & other Industrial Hemp Information College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences The College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences brings together the land-grant mission of teaching, research and Extension through world-class educational, inquiry and outreach opportunities, and partnerships with private industry and state and federal agencies. Department of Pesticide Regulation The Department of Pesticide Regulation (DPR) is the state’s lead agency charged with regulating the distribution, sale and use of pesticides in South Carolina. Department of Plant Industry The Department of Plant Industry houses several programs all with the same goal: Protecting and Serving the Agriculture and Natural Resources Industries of South Carolina. Experiment Station CAFLS professors conduct their research in campus laboratories and facilities, and at our six Research and Education Centers (RECs) strategically located throughout the state according to the state's distinct soil and climate regions. Collectively these RECs are known as the Clemson Experiment Station and are part of a nationwide system of scientists working to improve the quality of life for people in their home state, nation, and the world. eXtension eXtension helps Cooperative Extension System professionals (agents, educators, faculty, specialists) do their work more effectively using an online constellation of people, resources and tools within the Cooperative Extension System. Home & Garden Information Center The Home & Garden Information Center (HGIC) provides research-based information on landscaping, gardening, plant health, household pests, food safety and preservation, and nutrition, physical activity and health. Household and Structural Urban Entomology Household and Structural Urban Entomology encompasses the many insect pest problems in and around structures used by people. Research and extension activities in this area of entomology may involve cockroaches, fleas, carpenter ants, fire ants, stored product pests, ticks, biting flies, filth flies, wood destroying insects such as termites, and most other pest problems that are generally considered non-agricultural. Livestock-Poultry Health (LPH) Clemson Livestock-Poultry Health (LPH) protects animal health through control of endemic, foreign, and emerging diseases in livestock and poultry and protects the health of S.C. consumers by providing a comprehensive inspection service to ensure that meat and poultry products are safe, wholesome and accurately labeled. LPH serves as South Carolina's animal health authority, state meat and poultry inspection department, and the state's veterinary diagnostic center in fulfilling its role. Pesticide Safety Education The Department of Pesticide Regulation's Recertification program is designed as a program of continuing education for South Carolina licensed pesticide applicators. Licensed pesticide applicators are required to accrue continuing certification units/hours as long as they remained licensed in South Carolina. Licensed applicators may click on the links below to check their recertification status (CEU's) and to view available South Carolina approved recertification classes and programs. Plant and Pest Diagnostic Clinic & Nematode Assay The Clemson University Plant and Pest Diagnostic Clinic is a multi-disciplinary program which provides diagnoses and management recommendations for plant and turf problems, which include diseases, nematodes, weeds, environmental issues, nutritional deficiencies and insect pests of plants. We also identify insects infesting structures, humans, pets and livestock. Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Public Service and Agriculture delivers impartial, science-based information through research, outreach and regulatory programs designed to improve the quality of life in South Carolina, promote stewardship of natural resources and the environment, and protect a safe, sustainable food supply. Research & Education Centers CAFLS professors conduct their research in campus laboratories and facilities, and at our six Research and Education Centers (RECs) strategically located throughout the state according to the state's distinct soil and climate regions. Collectively these RECs are known as the Clemson Experiment Station and are part of a nationwide system of scientists working to improve the quality of life for people in their home state, nation, and the world. Archbold Tropical REC Conducts applied research and outreach on advancing economic and community development through environmental conservation. The center acts as a liaison for scientists interested in research, and develops educational programming and partnerships with local communities. Belle W. Baruch Institute of Coastal Ecology & Forest Science Research and education programs focused on the ecology and management of the natural resources of the coastal region of South Carolina for the betterment of the state’s citizens. The institute conducts research on more than 80,000 acres of coastal forest through public and private partnerships. Coastal REC Research and outreach on vegetable and specialty crop production with an emphasis on the effects of plant-based foods on human health and nutrition. Focus on developing production, and post-harvest methodology and pest management. Edisto REC Applied research and outreach on sustainable crop and livestock production systems, including row crops, vegetables, and beef cattle. The center aids citizens, researchers, students, and faculty in finding better ways to grow and harvest crops, raise beef cattle and conserve natural resources. Pee Dee REC Conducts applied research and outreach on row crops with an emphasis on enhancing crops through biotechnology. This facility focuses on the major field crops in this section of the coastal plain, along with environmental, wildlife, and ecological studies. Sandhill REC Applied research and extension programs in agribusiness and natural resource management focusing on farm and land management, marketing and risk analysis as well as urban forestry, wildlife and horticulture. Piedmont REC The Piedmont REC consists of all of the research farms located on and around Clemson University's main campus, including: Calhoun Fields, LeMaster Dairy Cattle Center, Morgan Poultry Center, Musser Fruit Farm, Simpson Beef Cattle Farm, and the Starkey Swine Center. Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension Clemson, SC Contact Us Emergency Preparedness Web Accessibility For Employees Page Update Request