Skip to Main Content For coronavirus information for the UCLA community, please visit the Ashe Center website and UCLA’s information page. Feedback Sustainability Give Now Search WebsiteSearch Search WebsiteSearch About About Us Contact Us News Employment FAQ Sponsorship Registration Rec Programs Recreation Programs Adaptive Rec Aquatics Competitive Sports Experiential Programs FitWell Instructional Classes Marina Aquatic Center Outdoor Adventures Youth Programs Events Member Services Facilities All Facilities Reservation and Rentals Open Rec Facility Policies Feedback Sustainability Give Now Welcome to UCLA Recreation Explore UCLA Recreation in-person and online classes, programs, and activities. Be an #ActiveBruin. Featured Student Jobs Opportunities We are hiring! Visit our student jobs page and explore various job opportunities such as fitness consultants, outdoor adventures, sales and service, and more! Spring Classes On Sale Now! Explore our Spring 2022 classes and programs available for Spring quarter on our online store. Updated Recreation Facility Access Requirements UCLA students, faculty, and staff must use the UCLA mobile app to present their Campus Clearance Certificate upon entry to a Recreation facility. Recreation Members and Non-UCLA Affiliates, read the full update for entry policy. Latest News Indoor Masking Update Due to the rise of COVID-19 cases, effective Friday, May 27, indoor masking will be required along with the completion of Symptom Monitoring. Campus COVID-19 Policy Updates Visit Our FAQ Page Learn how Recreation Services have changed to meet your needs. Find information on how to access services to ensure your ongoing success. Frequently Asked Questions Upcoming Events Loading events... Explore All Events Subscribe Join our email listserv for the latest Recreation news! Our Partners See a Full List of Partners Quick Links Facilities Register Contact Us Classes & Activities Reservations & Rentals Online Store Register for a Recreation class Stay in the know Facebook @UCLARec Instagram @uclarec Twitter @UCLARec Youtube @uclarecreation> \n Accessibility \n UCLA.edu \n Student Affairs \n Maps, Directions, Parking \n Academic Calendar \n Campus Directory \n University of California \n Terms of Use \n