Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News > Featured News Stories > 2022 > Probing disease disparities News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift Probing disease disparities Francisco Barrera, SM ’22, delves into thorny questions about racial differences in health outcomes May 24, 2022 – Do patients of color face higher risk of cancer after a heart transplant than white patients? Do Hispanic people who quit smoking have lower rates of cognitive decline than those who don’t quit? These are the sorts of research questions that excite Francisco Barrera, who’s set to earn his master of science in epidemiology from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health in May. He wants to uncover racial, ethnic, and gender differences in disease prevalence. “Social injustices are particularly important to me,” said Barrera, who goes by Frank. “In this world, it appears we can have everything, but not everyone has access to the same opportunities. This is my way of creating more knowledge and awareness around issues, to show people that they exist. And hopefully this knowledge can lead to policy interventions that could eventually decrease the effects of the social injustices we face.” An analyst at heart Growing up in Monterrey, Mexico, Barrera was intensely observant. “I’ve always paid a lot of attention to detail and been very analytical by nature,” he said. “I like to observe things, especially people.” That inquisitiveness led him toward research while attending medical school at the University of Nuevo Leon, where he received a research fellowship and learned the basics of methodology, statistics, and scientific writing. Over the next few years, Barrera took on every research topic that came his way, including prosthetic joints, cancer at the base of the skull, and metabolic syndrome among football players. “The opportunities where I come from are varied, and it’s difficult for a medical student to find the perfect fit,” he said. “My interest was in learning how to research. But many times I asked myself when I was going to be able to focus on something that I could be passionate about.” He’s begun to find the topics that interest him at Harvard Chan School. Over the past year, he’s been working on a research project with Murray Mittleman, professor of epidemiology, to look at the prevalence of cancer among heart transplant recipients by race. Transplant recipients receive immunosuppressants to reduce the chances of organ rejection, but these medications can also increase the risk of many kinds of cancer, including skin cancer and malignancies in blood and bone marrow. Using about 30 years of records from a national transplant registry—more than 60,000 in all—Barrera has examined the probability of patients both developing and dying from cancer. Preliminary results show that Black, Asian, or Hispanic recipients are less likely to be diagnosed with cancer than white patients and are more likely to die from the disease. “There are many factors that might explain these disparities, including access to high-quality medical care, insurance status, location, socioeconomic status, or even racism within the medical profession,” he said. In order to draw conclusions from the research, Barrera said it was important to analyze the data carefully, taking into account racial differences in the development of cancer over time, rather than simply looking at an individual’s propensity to develop or die from cancer following transplant surgery. Barrera first became aware of the subtleties of data analysis near the end of his medical training in Mexico, when he performed several meta-analyses that combined numerous studies on a particular topic. “In assessing the quality of the methods of the studies I was synthesized, I started learning about all of the different types of bias that can be created from measurement errors,” he said. Continuing education That experience drew him to Harvard Chan School in hopes of better learning how to perform accurate analyses of data. “The classes here have reshaped the way I see methods and research, and cleared up many misconceptions I had,” he said. For example, he has gained a much greater appreciation for the difficulties in assigning causality in observational studies. “I’ve gained a lot of humility and respect for methods, but I also feel confident with what I know now—and feel empowered to design and conduct these kinds of studies,” he said. Barrera will remain at the School for a year as a postdoctoral researcher, working with Mittleman on a new project to examine how quitting smoking affects cognitive decline among Hispanic patients. “They have a high prevalence of smoking and a higher risk of developing dementia compared to non-Hispanic whites,” Barrera said. “This relationship has not been studied before in this population.” At the same time, he is applying for residencies in psychiatry, pursuing his lifelong fascination with analyzing and observing human behavior. His goal is to use his training in research methods to further conduct studies that might better identify and explain differences in mental health between people in different demographic groups, to help design better individual treatment. “There is a misconception in medicine that we can all fit in the same box,” he said. “But we are not all the same, and we do not respond the same to treatment. There are a lot of differences in gender, race, and ethnicity that can be analyzed through research in ways that may have impact on prognosis and the medical care we can provide to patients.” – Michael Blanding Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Subscribe The COVID-19 Update Our researchers are on the front lines of the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sign up here to receive our weekly newsletter highlighting their efforts. Join mailing list Additional newsletters and mailing lists Related Articles cancer mental health tobacco The complicated work of pinpointing the causes of disease A push for safer building materials Cancer FactFinder website launched to provide fact-based, reliable information about causes of cancer More on this topic Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity and mental health care for minority populations Experts encourage moms to prioritize self-care this Mother’s Day Opinion: How climate action can improve children’s health More on this topic The complicated work of pinpointing the causes of disease Proposed FDA ban on menthol cigarettes, flavored cigars, a win for public health Perspective: Tobacco messaging holds lessons for COVID-19 vaccine campaigns More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College