Skip to main content Jump to main navigation Search content University of Pennsylvania | Penn University Life Search query Search Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search VPUL Home Student Involvement Fraternity and Sorority Life Office of Student Affairs Platt Student Performing Arts House Event Registration Cultural Centers Greenfield Intercultural Center La Casa Latina LGBT Center Makuu: The Black Cultural Center Pan-Asian American Community House Penn Women's Center Student Supports Career Services Naval ROTC Penn Violence Prevention Student Intervention Services Weingarten Center About Leadership Team Emergency and Opportunity Funding Give to University Life Strategic Priorities University Life Facilities at Perelman Quadrangle University Life Technology Services MyWeingartenCenter Academic Support Learning Consultations Tutoring Workshops and Programs Study Tools and Strategies Become a Peer Educator Disability Services Getting Started Academic Accommodations Campus Accessibility Assistive Technology and Alternate Format Materials Scholarships Reconsideration Process For Faculty and Staff Standards for Accommodating Exams Provost Memorandum Weingarten Center Canvas Pages Syllabus Statement Refer a Student Request a Workshop Exam Analysis About Contact Us Our Team Weingarten Ambassadors Advisory Board Disability Symposium MyWeingartenCenter Home Tutoring Tutoring We offer Penn undergraduate students free, accessible, and convenient options to complement their in-class learning. Tutoring is available is in a variety of formats. For most first-year students, the drop-in (satellite) tutoring services are the first stop. If the schedule or courses are not fulfilling your needs, then we encourage you to check out the Weekly Tutoring options. Drop-in Tutoring Weekly Tutoring Student Athlete Tutoring What Penn students say about our tutors! 1 in 3 Penn students will work with a tutor at some point during their time here Last year Penn students met with tutors or attended a workshop almost 12,000 times! 98% of students surveyed reported that they would work with our tutors again Previous Next Aditi is literally the BEST tutor. Explains everything in a way I can understand. Is always so kind and compassionate. Would not survive math without her!!! Thank you so much 🙂 Simran, I was really nervous about Chem 101 coming into the semester, but your tutoring has really helped me feel more at ease in general and more comfortable with the content. Thank you for helping us with chem! Jason is the best tutor ever: He knows 121 so well and is always so prepared for every session. He is very understanding when explaining difficult concepts and is open to any concept we would like to review. He is also great at giving CIS advice and study tips. Great job Jason-- we wouldn't get through 121 without you! Thank you so much for all the time and effort you have put in to helping us, not only have you helped us succeed in BE200 but you've also made me more confident in my skills as an engineer and your insight as a senior is very helpful! Caitlin, thank you so much for all the time and effort you have put in to helping us, not only have you helped us succeed in BE200 but you've also made me more confident in my skills as an engineer and your insight as a senior is very helpful! Shoshana has been really helpful with teaching me math 104 this year. She always makes sure to explain the concepts that I don't understand and doesn't get mad when I have no idea what I'm doing. She is the best tutor ever!!! Gary, you make math114 so much more understandable by introducing new methods and ways of thinking about the same problems! I appreciate it so much 🙂 Aria, you make biochem feel so much more manageable 🙂 thanks for always going step by step through everything and making sure not only that we memorize, but also that we understand! Nicole is a really nice and accommodating tutor and she allows us to confide in her. She dedicates time for us to learn and ask questions not only about our subject but also, about her experience as an upper class-man!! Thank you for inspiring me to pay your kindness forward someday!! Previous Next Drop-in (Satellite) Tutoring No appointment is needed and you can stop by as often as you need! The schedule for each term is typically released in week 1 of a new term, and hours usually begin during week 2. The schedule may be updated throughout the term. Always Check this page for updated hours & announcements. please send questions or concerns about drop in tutoring to vwrenn@upenn.edu Chem 101 - Fall hours TBA Chem 101 Fall hours TBA Chem 241 - Fall hours TBA CHEM 242 Fall hours TBA Econ 001 - Fall hours TBA Econ 002 Fall hours TBA Math 104 - Fall hours TBA Math 104 Fall hours TBA Math 114 - Fall hours TBA Math 114 Fall hours TBA Physics 101 /151 - Fall hours TBA Physics 101/102 Fall hours TBA Physics 151 Announcements Drop in Services will resume in Fall 2022 Upcoming Drop in Hours No Events Weekly Tutoring Contracts Regular, weekly appointments with an assigned tutor and 2-3 other students in the course. This service requires registration with our office. Those who have never requested a weekly tutor in the past must schedule an intake appointment. Returning students can submit a new tutor request below! Request a Weekly Tutor Summer I 2022 Requests open on 5/20/2022 Policies: Group Tutee Contract Updated [doc] New Students who have never had a tutor contract with us Schedule Registration Appointment Returning Students who have previously completed an intake Submit New Request Who can utilize this service? Students actively enrolled at the university. You must be currently enrolled in the course you want a tutor for. Can I request a tutor for any class at Penn While Weingarten Center’s Tutoring does our best to provide services for as many courses as possible, we are not able to service every course at the university. We are almost always able to serve the most popular first- and second-year courses. Smaller courses, and courses in the junior and senior year are more difficult for us to staff. Please submit the request for these courses and we will do our best to hire someone. Courses we do not support: Language courses are supported by the Penn Language Center Writing Courses are supported by the Marks Writing Center We are currently very limited in our ability to support graduate courses. We encourage you to submit a request, but you should also reach out to your program director for alternative options. How many courses can I request a tutor for in a semester? You may have up to two active tutoring assignments at a time I have submitted my request; how long will I have to wait before I am matched? We do our best to make assignments within two weeks from the initial request. During high volume periods it can take longer. Assignments also depend on tutor availability. How will you notify me when I am matched? You will be notified via email. Please check your junk folder before reaching out to us. Will I be notified if you are unable to match me with a tutor? If we are unable to match you within three weeks, we will contact you with a status update. At this time, we will let you know if we think we will be unable to hire a tutor for the class you are seeking. How often can I meet with the tutor? Assignments are typically 1-2 hours per week, depending on tutor availability. You are expected to meet weekly with the tutor. How do I request extra time with the tutor? If your group needs more time than you are assigned in a particular week, you may request additional hours for that week. You are permitted to request extra time for up to three weeks in any term. Request for extra hours. What if I can’t make my meeting in a particular week? Can I skip a week and meet extra during the following week? You may cancel your meeting during a particular week. However, moving the hours to another week counts as a request for extra hours. Please note that regularly canceling your assigned hours or missing the group meeting will result in termination of your contract. This is to avoid students holding tutors that they do not need when other students may be waitlisted. Where will I meet my tutor? You and your group will determine this along with your tutor. You can meet in any public space on campus or utilize a platform such as zoom for an online session. Do I have to be in a group? Why are tutoring appointments made in groups? Group tutoring is the standard format of our services. We believe that group tutoring creates the best space for collaborative learning. In group tutoring, you are able to hear how your peers are experiencing the material, their questions, and strategies for success. Groups will consist of 3-4 students with the tutor. If you are having an issue with your assigned group, we encourage you to reach out to us. What should I expect from a tutoring session? The tutor will not re-teach or re-lecture material, nor will they assist you with homework. To best utilize this service, you should be reviewing your material ahead of time and identifying specific questions or challenges you have with the material. The tutor will lead you in conversations, activities, and exercises to help you answer those questions. We also encourage you to ask the tutor about best practice study skills and strategies for this course. What if I decide that I no longer need my tutor? Or if I have a concern about my tutor / group / assignment? Please email tuteehelpdesk@vpul.upenn.edu to share a concern, ask a question or cancel the assignment Where do I report a tutor who does not show up or cancels at the last minute? We take this very seriously – Click here to make a report Student Athlete Academic Achievement Program The Tutoring Center is happy to partner with the Athletics Department to provide tutoring BY scholar athletes and FOR scholar athletes. How it works These hours are available by accessing the Tutor Trac system and searching for the course. You must book appointments at least 24 hours in advance. Access Tutor Trac & Penn authenticate Click “Search Availability” on the left side of the screen Search by course and times. Note that you will have better luck if keep the time windows flexible. Select the appointment you are interested in. This service does not run during summer term. Tutor Trac Sign In Primary Footer Athletics Diversity Health & Wellness Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Resources University Life Calendar Student Jobs Help Contact Us Maps Parking University of Pennsylvania Address Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-6081 Legal Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset