We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × Safer Return at Cal Poly Pomona Home Phased Reopening Employee Repopulation Plan Phases of Safer Return COVID-19 Dashboard COVID-19 Dashboard Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure to COVID-19 University Risk Response Plan Reporting Requirements Quarantine and Isolation Process Health and Safety Plan News and Updates Checklist Before Coming to Campus HEERF Student Aid COVID-19 Informational Materials Events Vaccine Information Face Coverings Beginning April 2, 2022, masks will be strongly recommended but not required for indoor settings on campus. Faculty, staff and students cannot require others to wear or not wear a mask in classrooms, labs, offices, meeting spaces and other indoor locations. Though no longer required, wearing a mask indoors is strongly recommended, and it continues to be a highly effective way to protect yourself and our community from the spread of the COVID-19 virus and variants. The university will continue to provide medical grade surgical masks and KN95 masks to all students, faculty and staff at no charge. Read the March 24 message regarding the masking protocol update. In specific settings, masks will continue to be required: Healthcare, including the Student Health Center, CAPS, vaccine clinic locations, Public Health Testing Site (when not actively testing) Public transportation, such as Foothill Transit and Metrolink. The Bronco Shuttle is categorized as private transportation, and masks are strongly recommended. Children’s Center on campus Quarantine/Isolation Everyone who is in quarantine/isolation must wear a highly protective mask if they must be around others. For employees: If released early from quarantine/isolation, employees must wear a highly protective mask at the workplace for a total of 10 days after a positive test result or exposure to a confirmed positive case. Face coverings are not required outdoors, but it is a best practice to wear one when attending crowded events, such as live performances, parades, fairs, festivals, sports events, or other similar settings where physical distancing cannot be maintained. Best Practices for Masking While all masks provide some level of protection and are currently optional, a well-fitting medical grade surgical mask or respirator (e.g., N95 and KN95) are recommended in high-risk situations and for people at increased risk for severe disease.  Why Wear a Mask? Wearing a well-fitted mask is an effective means of protection against airborne viruses, such as COVID-19 and variants. COVID-19 is mostly spread from person-to person by respiratory droplets. Droplets of viruses are projected into the air when people talk, sing, cough or sneeze. Wearing a mask is essential to slow down the spread of COVID-19 by protecting others if you are infected and protects you if you are exposed to an infected person. Alternatively, you may consider wearing a mask to protect yourself during cold and flu season. Expand/Collapse All for faq number 1 Frequently Asked Questions Do I still have to wear a mask if I’m vaccinated? As noted in the CDC’s Frequently Asked Questions about COVID-19 Vaccination, it is strongly recommended to continue to wear a mask regardless of vaccination status to protect yourself and others in some situations. It’s important for everyone to continue using all the tools available to help stop this pandemic as we learn more about how COVID-19 vaccines work against evolving variants. What type of mask should I wear? A well-fitted mask covers your nose, mouth, and chin and fits snugly against your face without any gaps. Gaps can let air with respiratory droplets leak in and out around the edges of the mask. A mask with good filtration blocks the virus particles form going through the mask itself. A good filtration depends on the right materials and by using more layers. Higher grade masks (medical surgical, KN95, N95) are recommended. It is not recommended to wear a face shield in place of a mask or wearing clear shield-like face masks, which are different than face shields but have gaps around the face and therefore do not provide the same protection as wearing a mask. Visit LA County Public Health for more information on masks. Where can I get masks on campus? Visit the PPE webpage for more information. Will masks become mandatory again? The university will continue to monitor local health conditions, adhere to public health mandates, and follow our University Risk Response Plan, which prioritizes health and safety while also protecting and supporting our mission of student success.  As the pandemic’s course is fluid and evolving, public health officials are actively tracking regional transmission levels and other conditions, including Variants of Concern — conditions that may trigger a countywide mask mandate. Similarly, the university may reinstitute the mask requirement under certain conditions, such as a cluster or outbreak on campus. If conditions change, we will follow the guidance from public health experts, update our Safer Return protocols to protect health and safety, and provide timely and transparent communication to the campus. (Page updated 4/19/2022) Forgot Your Mask? Face masks and gloves are available for anyone on campus. The PPE dispensers are mounted to the wall on the first floor of buildings. Visit PPE Website for Details Request Specialized PPE Requests for specialized PPE can made using the COVID-19 Resource Request webpage. Specialized PPE include KN95 masks, disposable face shields, reusable face shields with eyeglass frames, face shields with drapes, masks with clear shields that allow for lip reading, masks and covers for musical instruments, and goggles. Contact For questions about PPE supplies, email eocsupplies@cpp.edu. 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers