Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW UW Home UW Technology Transfer and Research Products Center Home Wyoming Technology Transfer and Research Products Center Home Menu Technologies Available for Licensing For Industry For UW Inventors About RPC Contact Us Wyoming Technology Transfer and Research Products Center Dept. 3672 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-2520 Fax: (307) 766-2530 Email: WyomingInvents@uwyo.edu Wyoming Technology Transfer and Research Products Center University of Wyoming Mission Statement: The University of Wyoming is dedicated to instruction, research, and the extension of knowledge to the public. It is the policy of the University to carry out its scholarly work in an open and free atmosphere, and to publish results obtained therefrom freely. Research done primarily in anticipation of profit is incompatible with the aims of the University. However, the University recognizes that patentable inventions and copyrightable materials are conceived or created during the course of research conducted by faculty and students using University facilities. These policies and the Wyoming Technology Transfer and Research Products Center have been established to ensure that those inventions and materials in which the University may have an interest will be utilized in a manner consistent with the public good, through patent and copyright licenses or otherwise, as well as to provide service to faculty, students and the citizens of the State of Wyoming in technology transfer processes. News Silicon Valley Company Acquires UW Incubator Grad, Continues Local Operation June 26, 2017 — Bright Agrotech, a company developed by a University of Wyoming graduate using UW-licensed technology in UW’s business incubator, has been acquired by a Silicon Valley company that plans to maintain and enhance the Wyoming operation. UW Researcher Helps Develop Innovative Cooling Technology February 23, 2017 — The landscape of energy technology could soon be vastly improved, thanks to the work of a University of Wyoming researcher. UW Receives Patent for Huntington’s Disease Treatment April 1, 2016 — The University of Wyoming recently was awarded a patent for a method that potentially could be used to help treat patients with Huntington's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases. UW Scientists Want to Develop Bloodstream Bacterial Drones to Kill Tumors September 16, 2015 — Talk of building smart bombs, counterintelligence and infrared light-guided delivery systems may have raised a curious eyebrow from anyone walking by the open conference room door on the sixth floor of the University of Wyoming building. Material Surfaces Are Not Just Two-Dimensional, UW Researcher Discovers September 2, 2015 — A physical science process that may yield a profound understanding for developing future nanomaterials -- such as those used in cellphones or computer chips -- was recently demonstrated and confirmed by a University of Wyoming researcher. Researchers Detail Carbon Output from Rivers and Streams August 13, 2015 — Work by a University of Wyoming professor and a recent UW Ph.D. graduate has provided a more complete picture of the role of rivers and streams in the global carbon cycle. Robots Can Recover From Damage in Minutes, UW Researcher Helps Demonstrate May 28, 2015 — Robots will one day provide tremendous benefits to society, such as in search-and- rescue missions and putting out forest fires -- but not until they can learn to keep working if they become damaged. UW-Led Research: Bacteria Cooperate to Repair Damaged Siblings May 21, 2015 — A University of Wyoming faculty member led a research team that discovered a certain type of soil bacteria can use their social behavior of outer membrane exchange (OME) to repair damaged cells and improve the fitness of the bacteria population as a whole. UW Researchers Unravel Mystery in Search for Connective Tissue Disease Causes May 1, 2015 — University of Wyoming molecular biologist David Fay doesn’t much look like famous sleuths such as television’s Columbo -- no trenchcoat, at least -- nor Fox Mulder of “X Files” fame; there is no doubting-what’s-out-there Scully at his side. [+] Expand to see more news Introduction: Energy & Environment Introduction: Biological & Life Sciences Contact Us Wyoming Technology Transfer and Research Products Center Dept. 3672 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-2520 Fax: (307) 766-2530 Email: WyomingInvents@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility