Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Visual Art Show/Hide About People Academics Awards + Scholarships Course Descriptions Courses Listings Concentration Requirements Exhibitions + Guidelines Honors Independent Study Study Abroad News + Events Resources FAQs Awards + Scholarships Every year the Department of Visual Art grants a variety of selective fellowships and prizes to students who demonstrate artistic excellence & passion for the visual arts. Ann Belsky Moranis Prize Created in memoriam, this prize is awarded to a Senior Visual Art Concentrator during Commencement each year. Selected by Department of Visual Art faculty members, the honored student displays exceptional skills, creativity, and is independently driven to excel in their field. Flexible Flyer Fellowship Award Limited to Junior and Senior students, the Flexible Flyer Fellowship supports student driven projects including, though not limited to, Independent Student Projects, personal art projects, Brown curriculum based work, etc. Honored students display intention to pursue a career creating or supporting art. Gilbert Stuart Prizes in Art First awarded to students in 1965, this award honors students who exhibit innovative and unique perspectives, imaginative use of materials, or contextual arguments within their work. Hugh Townley Travel Fellowship Award This fellowship supports the student effort to enrich and fortify their perspective before embarking on a career in visual art. Limited to covering the cost of traveling, the fellowship requires honored students to propose not only a project but also a travel plan. Marlene Malik Fellowship Award This award supports the efforts of Visual Art Concentrators in purchasing supplies and materials used to design and construct 3D projects. Minnie Helen Hicks Prizes in Art Supported via income earned by the Minnie Helen Hicks Fund, this award honors students who exhibit innovative and unique perspectives, imaginative use of materials, or contextual arguments within their work. Roberta Joslin Prize For Excellence In Art Supported by an endowment in memory of Roberta Joslin, this award honors students who display innovative work in visual art. This prize is awarded to graduating Visual Art Concentrators during Commencement each year. Undergraduate Teaching or Research Assistantships (UTRAS) Karen T. Romer Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards (UTRAs) support Brown students collaborating with Brown faculty on research and teaching projects during the summer or the academic year. UTRAs provide students with valuable academic experience that prepares them for graduate study and contributes directly to course development at Brown. Graduate Teaching Assistantships The Department of Visual Art annually appoints graduate students from the Rhode Island School of Design as teaching assistants. These students work with regular department faculty in the major disciplines of the department: art of the book, digital media, painting, photography, printmaking, and sculpture. Academics Awards + Scholarships Course Descriptions Courses Listings Concentration Requirements Exhibitions + Guidelines Honors Independent Study Study Abroad Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Visual Art Visual Art Brown University Box 1861 List Art Building 64 College St Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2423 Fax: 401-863-1680 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Custom Footer Links A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat