Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Journalism and Strategic Media About B.A. Program M.A. Program People Syllabi Student Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact B.A. Program Advertising Broadcast Journalism Creative Mass Media Journalism Public Relations Sports Media Strategic Social Media JRSM Undergraduate Handbook Transfer students How to apply Take Action Apply to our Undergraduate Program Apply to our Master's Program Contact Us AEJMC 2022 Southeast Colloquium Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home JRSM Undergraduate Program Welcome to our B.A. Program The Department of Journalism and Strategic Media offers four areas of undergraduate study—Advertising, Creative Mass Media, Journalism, and Public Relations. The department is accredited by the Accrediting Council for Education in Journalism and Mass Communications; the public relations program is certified by the Public Relations Society of America. The Department of Journalism and Strategic Media at the University of Memphis offers preparation for careers in advertising, broadcast news, multimedia journalism, public relations, sports journalism, and visual and creative media. Students are required to take career-oriented skills courses to enhance skills in writing, multimedia, media literacy, professionalism, and critical thinking as they relate to careers in the media. Click on the program names below for more detail about the programs. The Undergraduate Catalog includes complete information about degree requirements. This is a listing of course descriptions outlines the offerings of the Department of Journalism and Strategic Media. Advertising The advertising major trains students to work in a corporate or agency office doing accounts or creative work. Students learn functions of the advertising business, develop creative strategy, explore media buying and account planning, learn to research target audiences and to execute a campaign. Students compete in the National Student Advertising Competition working with national brands, including Adobe, Ocean Spray and Pizza Hut. Creative Mass Media The creative mass media concentration in the Journalism major trains students to work in creative media industries, such as advertising design, public relations design, data visualization photojournalism, news design, web design, and user experience design. Students will learn skills in digital media photography, print media design, and web design and can choose courses to deepen skills in those areas. Students take a minimum of nine hours of credit from the Department of Art and work toward a creative capstone course where students will design, shoot and develop media for a client. Journalism The journalism major trains students to work as multimedia journalists for new and emerging digital media, legacy media, and media startups. Students can deepen skills in broadcast journalism, sports reporting, investigative journalism, feature writing, and public affairs reporting. All classes emphasize writing and multimedia skills and lead to a capstone experience working for Memphis Mirror. Broadcast journalism students produce Tiger News as part of their studies. Public Relations The public relations major is offered on campus, online and at the Lambuth campus. In public relations, students learn to engage the public and communicate with stakeholders, shareholders for corporate and nonprofit clients as well as work in an agency setting. Students develop skills in writing, social media, design and audience research, and then use those to execute a campaign for a client. Previous clients have included Memphis Habitat for Humanity and the University of Memphis football team. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/27/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.