Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate Finance Course Catalog Finance (B.B.A.) Finance, Real Estate Concentration (B.B.A.) Minors Banking and Financial ServicesBusiness FinanceReal EstateRisk Management and Insurance Certificates Financial Analyst & Planning Programs Professional Real Estate Tracks Financial Analyst Financial Planning Master of Science in Business Administration (M.S.B.A.) concentration in Finance Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Business Administration with concentration in Finance Program Rankings Take Action Cook Analytics & Trading Lab Seminars Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home FIR Programs Financial Analyst Track Financial Analyst Track Program Description The Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate offers an undergraduate Financial Analyst track certifying that the student has developed the initial understanding of the financial topics included in the CFA Program Candidate Body of Knowledge. The Chartered Financial Analyst® (CFA) credential has become the most respected and recognized investment designation in the world; enrolling in the Financial Analyst Track is the first step toward earning this qualification. The CFA® Program curriculum covers concepts and skills a student will use at all career stages, connecting academic theory with current practice and ethical and professional standards to provide a strong foundation of advanced investment analysis and real-world portfolio management skills. Career Opportunities This Financial Analyst track is designed for those undergraduate students who: wish to explore career possibilities in financial management and analysis. wish to prepare for professional certification exams, such as the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA exam). are interested in a professional position in finance seek to strengthen their knowledge of business practices and theories. Program Requirements Students in the Finance major are required to take: FIR 3410 - Financial Management FIR 3710 - Investments FIR 3720 - Financial Markets In addition, students wishing to complete the Financial Analyst track must take: FIR 4730 - Financial Analysis/Certification And take two of the following classes to complete the track: FIR 4331 – Stock Portfolio Mgmt FIR 4721 – Financial Derivative Markets FIR 4911 – Internship with a CFA charter holder member When an appropriate upper-division FIR class is not available, an alternative is to take FIR 4911 – External Internship (or internal FISC volunteer internship) under the supervision of a faculty member appointed by the Department Chair. The classes taken under this certificate program count for major credit for any students in the BBA Finance major. The Financial Analyst Letter of Completion is issued by the Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate and is not posted on the student's transcript. To be issued the the Letter of Completion of Financial Analyst track, a student is required to receive a minimum of a B grade in each of the above classes, and it is incumbent on the student to petition the Department Chair of his or her qualifications to receive the Letter of Completion. Program Advisors Dr. Ronald W. Spahr 901.678.1747 | email Prof. Nap Overton, CFA 901-678-3409 | email Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.