Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Financial Aid Federal School Code: 003425 Frequently Asked Questions FAFSA/Verification What types of financial aid are available? Scholarships — University, State and Private Grants — Federal, State and University Loans — Federal and Private Federal Work-Study My FAFSA was selected for verification. When will be verification be complete? The time it takes to complete the verification process varies depending upon the time of year. During our peak season of May to September, it may take several weeks to complete the verification process after we have received your documents. It is best to turn in your documentation as soon as possible to ensure that your financial aid is applied to your bill before the billing due date. See FAFSA for more information. My financial situation has changed and is not reflected on the FAFSA. Can my aid be adjusted? In some cases, your financial aid can be adjusted if you have extreme changes to your financial situation such as the loss of a parent or spouse due to death or divorce, or the loss of a job. If you have had drastic changes to your income, and the numbers on the FAFSA do not reflect the changes, please send us an email or letter describing the changes. Please be sure to include amounts that have changed. Your financial aid counselor will then determine if your situation merits requesting documentation. When your counselor has the requested documents, he/she will recalculate your aid and notify you of your new financial aid award package. Please note that special condition appeals are considered based on federal regulations and professional judgment policies. I submitted documentation for a special condition request. When should I expect to hear the results? Special condition requests may take up to eight to 10 weeks during the summer months. Please be sure to submit all documentation as quickly as possible to help expedite the process. Who's my parent when I fill out the FAFSA? Printable pdf version: FAFSA-Parent I submitted my FAFSA by the January 2 (freshmen) or April 1 (upperclassmen) deadline. Why have I not been offered any financial aid? You should receive an email in your Clemson account with instructions for accessing your financial aid around the first week of April (first-year students) or by mid-June (upperclassmen). You must include Clemson University as a school on your FAFSA. Please also check your financial aid status in iROAR to see if you have any missing requirements under the Financial Aid Eligibility tab. If your academic progress is unsatisfactory, you are ineligible for federal aid and may consider appealing if you had extenuating circumstances that affected your grades. What does my “EFC” mean on the FAFSA? The expected family contribution (EFC) is assigned to you after you submit the FAFSA. It is an index that tells us the types of aid for which you are eligible. It is not the amount you are expected to pay (your out-of-pocket expenses may be significantly more or less), but it allows us to see what aid we can offer you based on federal regulations and our policies. How will Clemson know that I have financial need? We determine your need based on the information found in your FAFSA, so your first step should be completing the FAFSA and listing Clemson as one of your college choices. (Federal School Code 003425.) A federal formula will determine your financial situation compared to Clemson's cost of attendance. Electronic Forms & Document Submission (Dynamic Forms) What is Dynamic Forms? Dynamic Forms is an electronic form portal that allows for the secure submission of information and documentation. Student accounts are dependent on acceptance and the creation of the student’s username. Parents will need to create their accounts to complete forms. How do I access my Dynamic Forms? Student Portal: Students should submit new forms via their iRoar portal. Previously submitted forms can be accessed through the Student Dynamic Forms portal. Parent Portal: Parents and guardians can use the links in the system-generated emails or can log in to the Parent Dynamic Forms portal. *Parents and guardians will need to create their accounts prior to accessing forms. How do I create an account? Students: Student accounts are automatically created at the time your Clemson username is activated. Parent & Guardian: Please review this document, Create your Dynamic Forms account, for step-by-step instructions on how to create an account using the same email address provided by your student on their form. I cannot log in to my Dynamic Forms portal, what do I do? Students: Students should submit new forms via their iRoar portal. Previously submitted forms can be accessed through the Student Dynamic Forms portal. Please contact Student Financial Aid if issues persist. Parent & Guardian: If you are getting an error attempting to sign in, please review the following checklist. Have you already created your account? If not review the section How do I create an account? Ensure the email address matches. If you have an existing account but the student listed a different email address, you can contact our office to change it. Double-check your password. If you have forgotten your password, please see the section I forgot my Dynamic Forms password, what do I do?. Clear the browser cache, close the browser and try again. Try another browser or device, if possible. To view system requirements to use Dynamic Forms visit this link: https://dynamicforms.ngwebsolutions.com/systemrequirements.html If you are still experiencing issues, please contact our office with the error you are receiving. I forgot my Dynamic Forms password, what do I do? (For Parents/Cosigners Only) You can easily use the Forgot Password link on the log in page. If you are having issues resetting your password, please make sure you are using the correct email address. For support in resetting your password please contact Dynamic Forms support at support@ngwebsolutions.com. How do I check the status of a form? To check the status of a form, log into Dynamic Forms and select the Pending/Draft Forms section. If the form in question is listed, you may view the PDF or HTML version of the form to see which signatures are still pending. If not listed under Pending/Draft Forms, check under Form History. If listed under Form History all required fields were completed and all required signatures were supplied. When will my iROAR account be updated? Many of our forms are on a schedule to update your account within 24 hours. If the form has been completed with the required signatures and the status has not been updated within 2 business days (Monday – Friday, excluding holidays), please reach out to us at finaid@clemson.edu. What file types are accepted for upload? We prefer files that are uploaded to be PDFs; however, we will also accept the file types listed below. If you attach a file that is not one of these file types we may reach out for you to upload the document again in one of the accepted formats. Please ensure attachments are not password protected. Submitting a password-protected document could delay the processing of your financial aid award. File Types Accepted: pdf, doc, docx, xls, xlsx, jpg, jpeg, png Why can I not submit a new form? Many of our forms prevent duplicate submissions for the same school year. If the information supplied on the form creates conflicting information, a financial aid counselor will be reaching out to you to clarify the conflict. If you are trying to resubmit due to your iRoar account not being updated, please review the sections on How do I check the status of a form? and When will my iRoar account be updated? for additional information. How do I make corrections or changes to the information on the form? Once you have completed your section and provided your signature, editing the information on the form is not an available option. If you need to correct any information on the form, please reach out to us at finaid@clemson.edu with your CID, the form you need to update and the reason for the update. My cosigner (parent or guardian) is not getting an email to complete the form, what do I do? If your parent or guardian is required as a cosigner on the form and they are not receiving the email to complete the form, you can update this information. Log in to Dynamic Forms, go to Pending/Draft Forms and click Manage Cosigners to verify/update the email address. Make sure to save the changes before closing the pop-up window. If you are having difficulties please reach out to us at finaid@clemson.edu and provide the updated email address for your cosigner. There is requested information that I cannot enter, what do I do? In most cases, there are designated student and parent sections that only the responsible party can complete. Please check the section headers to see if you may be in a section not designated for you. How do I change the name on my account? (For Parents/Cosigners Only) Parents and guardians can update this information under Manage Account -> Name in Dynamic Forms. My parent/guardian and I share a computer and they cannot create an account or complete the form, what do we do? If the student shares a computer with the parent or guardian, the student must log out of their account and close the browser before the parent/guardian can create or log in to their account. If after closing the browser it still loads the student’s account, clear the browser cache, close the browser and try again. Does Save Progress submit the form for review? If you click Save Progress at the bottom of the form, this is saving a draft of the form for you to complete later. To submit the form, proceed to the electronic signature page or click Submit Form. *Submit Form option is only on forms that do not require a signature to be provided. I was logged out before I finished my form, what happened? Each form has a 45-minute activity timer and will cause the user’s session to expire at the end of this timer. You can extend this timer by clicking Save Progress at the bottom of the form. I am having issues completing the form, can I email it instead? For security and workflow purposes we are not accepting forms or attached documents via email. If you are experiencing difficulties completing and/or submitting the forms online, please review the FAQ topics. If you are still experiencing issues after reviewing the FAQs, reach out to us at finaid@clemson.edu and a member of our staff will work with you to help guide you. *For issues related to ADA technology barriers please reach out to our office and we will assist you with submitting your information and documents securely. Can I opt-out of signing the form in Dynamic Forms? While Dynamic Forms does offer the option to opt-out signing a form electronically, it is not recommended, as this can often lead to the submission of an incomplete form and impact processing times of your information and documentation. Please note that opting out of the electronic signature does not submit the form to our office for review. If you have further questions regarding opting out of the electronic signature please contact us at finaid@clemson.edu. Grants & Loans Will I qualify for a federal grant? Students with significant need might be eligible for the Federal Pell Grant and the Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG). These grants are awarded to students whose families have very few resources for college, according to the results of their FAFSA. For example, a dependent student in a family of four whose parents’ adjusted gross income is less than $30,000 would be likely to receive federal grant assistance. Eligibility is determined by Federal law and varies depending on family size, number of children in college, assets, the parents' and/or student's income. Will I have to take out student loans? Fewer than half of Clemson’s graduates borrow funds to finance part of their education. However, subsidized or low-interest loans can be a good resource to meet college costs that are not covered by scholarships or other resources. Undergraduate students with financial need may be eligible for the Federal Direct Subsidized Loan. For parents who need assistance with the remainder of college costs, the Federal Direct PLUS Loan application is available online at studentaid.gov. A graduate student who completes a FAFSA is eligible for the Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan. If additional funding is needed and within the cost of attendance, a graduate student may also be eligible to apply for the Federal Direct GradPLUS Loan on studentaid.gov. Almost all applicants are eligible for some type of loan assistance, regardless of income level or creditworthiness. I just accepted my Federal Direct Loans, and I am expecting a refund. When should I receive it? During peak seasons, it may take several weeks to process Federal Direct Loans. Your loan must be approved by the federal government before it is paid to your bill. When it is paid to your bill, Student Financial Services will process your refund, usually on a weekly basis. Please note that no funds will pay to your bill until 10 days before classes start, and you will not receive a refund before the first day of classes. I am applying for a private loan, and the lender said they are waiting on school certification. What does that mean? Part of processing a private loan requires that our office sends the lender a school certification to confirm the amount you can receive based on your cost of attendance. There are several steps involved in the process so it may be several weeks before your loan is processed and approved for disbursement to your student bill. Typically, we will receive a request for school certification approximately 1 week after you have completed the lender's application process, including any borrower or co-borrower requirements, and your credit has been pre-approved. Our standard processing of private loans requires that your account be reviewed for federal, state, and institutional aid first. This means any outstanding requirements, such as being selected for the Verification Process on your FAFSA, must be completed so that your eligibility for other aid can be determined. You should respond to all requests for additional information promptly to ensure all aid, including loans, are processed as quickly as possible. Once your file is complete and your eligibility for other aid has been determined, your loan will be certified and submitted to your lender within approximately one to two weeks. Your lender will send you a disbursement notification that will include the earliest disbursement date permitted by federal regulations. The standard time from final approval to actual disbursement is approximately 10-15 days. Please note that your loan approval will need to be finalized before the loan is applied to the bill. If it is not finalized by the billing deadline and you have an outstanding balance, your payment will be considered late, and any consequences of late payment (e.g., late fee and class cancellation) will be applied. I just applied for a private loan, and I am expecting a refund. When should I expect to receive it? During the months of May to September, it may take several weeks to process and obtain approvals for private loans. After receiving the lender’s final approval, a memo credit may be applied to your bill until the funds are received if the final approval is received before the scheduled memo expiration date. Memo credits are set to expire and are no longer issued around the mid-term of each semester. Additionally, memo credits will not generate a refund. A refund will not be generated until Clemson receives the actual disbursement from the lender. The standard time from final approval to actual disbursement is approximately 10-15 days. The student and/or co-borrower must complete all paperwork (promissory note/final loan disclosures) before the loan will be scheduled for disbursement. Private Loan lenders must abide by federal regulations that require specific loan disclosures and mandated borrower waiting and rescission periods. Based on their federal obligations, the lenders’ schedule the earliest actual disbursement date. This is the reason for the 10-15 day delay in receiving an actual disbursement of loan funds. When disbursements are paid to your bill that exceed your balance due, Student Financial Services will process your refund. Please note that no funds will pay to your bill until 10 days before classes start, and you will not receive a refund before the first day of classes. Paying Tuition How much does Clemson cost? You will find information about the current academic year's estimated costs on our Estimated Cost of Attendance web page. Student bills are made available on the iROAR portal in mid-July for the Fall semester and in November for the Spring semester. What are my payment options? To avoid lump sum payments, families should consider the University’s payment plan options. Clemson University also accepts eCheck payments for FREE or credit card payments through VISA, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express. A 2.85% non-refundable fee will be assessed at the time of the transaction for all credit card payments. Families who pay all or part of their tuition with loans or with their own resources might qualify for federal tax credits, such as the HOPE Scholarship Tax Credit or the Lifetime Learning Tax Credit, which reduces the amount of federal income tax due the following year. Can I work to pay part of my costs? Yes! There are student jobs and UPIC internships available online through the Center for Career and Professional Development. If you are a student with significant financial need based on your FAFSA, you may be eligible to receive Federal Work-Study (FWS) aid as part of your financial aid package. Once you have accepted this part of your financial aid package, you will receive an email in July which explains how to apply for jobs of interest on the FWS website. Federal Work-study employees typically work 10-12 hours per week. All University employees, including student workers, will be paid twice per month. General Financial Aid How do I contact Student Financial Aid? You can contact us by email at finaid@clemson.edu or call us at 864-656-2280. Our phone hours are from 8:00 AM to 1:00 PM on Monday - Friday. We are also available for live one-on-one chat sessions from 2:00 to 4:00 PM on Monday - Friday. When should I apply for financial aid? Entering first-year students are automatically considered for Academic Recruiting Scholarships if they apply for admission by December 1 and the admissions process is completed by December 31. Continuing undergraduate students are also automatically considered for University scholarships. See the information above regarding "What are my chances for receiving a scholarship?". You should submit the FAFSA as soon as possible after October 1 each year. In order to be considered for need-based scholarships, the Federal Supplemental Opportunity Education Grant (SEOG), Federal Work-Study, and the S.C. Need-Based Grant, you must submit your FAFSA by the priority deadline of January 2 for first-year students and April 1 for upperclassmen. All of our recommended deadlines are listed here. When will I hear about my financial aid package? If you are an incoming first-year student who applies by the admission deadline, then you will be notified of any Academic Recruiting Scholarships by the first week of March. If you meet our priority deadline of January 2 for completing the FAFSA, then your federal aid and other need-based aid will also be awarded by the first week of March as well. For upperclassmen, you will receive notification about your financial aid package after Spring semester grades are posted for all students. We do continue to process aid during the summer and even after the Fall semester starts. You can apply at any time, but remember that some programs have deadlines, and it may take several weeks for your aid to be available. When your financial aid package is available on the iROAR portal, you will receive notification through your Clemson email account. If your financial aid awards are in an "Offered" status on the iROAR portal, you must accept them before the aid will be applied to your bill. When Clemson awards a Federal Direct Loan, you will have the opportunity to accept, reduce or decline the offer. Before your Federal Direct Loan(s) can be finalized, you will need to sign the Master Promissory Note and complete the Entrance Counseling on studentaid.gov if it is your first loan. Be careful to read and follow the instructions on any form or email that you receive regarding financial aid. If necessary, Clemson might ask you to submit additional information and/or copies of your family's IRS Tax Return Transcripts for a federally mandated process called Verification. To speed up processing, please respond as quickly as you can, and make sure all forms are signed and complete. We will process your aid as soon as possible, but we must follow strict federal guidelines if your application is selected for review. No federal aid will be confirmed for disbursement until the verification process is complete, which may take several weeks. How many times am I allowed to retake a course and receive Federal Aid (i.e., Federal Pell Grant and Federal Student Loans)? If you haven’t passed the course previously, you can take the course and receive federal funds granted you are making Satisfactory Academic Progress. You may only repeat the same course once if you have earned a grade of D or better. Further, the second retake of a course could affect your enrollment status for federal aid and may affect your Pell Grant and student loan eligibility. I am taking summer courses and would like to use my remaining financial aid to cover the cost. What do I need to do? Please submit the summer enrollment form. The summer enrollment form is normally available online in March/April prior to the start of summer school. Please note that you will not be offered additional financial aid for the summer automatically. If you did not accept the entire amount of Federal Direct Loans offered to you in the fall and the spring, or if you progressed to a higher grade level with a higher annual loan limit you may use the remaining amount in the summer. If you participated in a co-op, you may be eligible to receive un-used scholarships in the summer as long as you are enrolled in at least 12 hours. Please be sure you are meeting the annual amount of credit hours required for each of your scholarships when enrolling in summer courses. I received my financial aid letter, but my aid is not credited to the bill. What do I need to do? No funds will pay to your bill until 10 days before classes start, and you will not receive a refund before the first day of classes. Your financial aid will show as an estimated amount before that time. If it is after that time, please check the following items: First, please make sure you have submitted all documents under the Eligibility section under the Financial Aid tab in iROAR. Some items may take several weeks to process, depending on the time of year. We cannot pay your financial aid to your bill until all required items have been processed. Next, check your Financial Aid Status. If your academic progress is unsatisfactory, you are ineligible to receive federal aid, and you should consider appealing if you have extenuating circumstances that affected your grades. If your financial aid status is satisfactory and you have no outstanding documents, be sure you have accepted all of your individual awards. To accept your awards, log into your iROAR account and go to the Award section under the Financial Aid tab. Then select Award for Aid Year which will prompt you to select a specific academic year. The next screen will have several tabs. You should select the Accept Award Offer tab and accept or decline the individual awards. How will a co-op or internship affect my financial aid? Most types of financial aid require that you are enrolled in courses full-time. If you are not enrolled in any credit hours during your co-op or internship, you cannot use financial aid during that semester. You can receive a partial Pell Grant if you enroll less than full-time, and you can receive Federal Direct Loans if you are enrolled at least half-time. If you are in a co-op or internship during one semester, you cannot use the full-year amount of your aid in the semester during which you are enrolled in courses full-time. However, you can defer most scholarships to a later semester if you stay at Clemson for more than eight semesters and continue to meet the eligibility requirements. Please notify our office if you participate in a co-op or internship so we can adjust your aid accordingly. I have more questions, where can I find help? Call the financial aid office at 864-656-2280, email us at finaid@clemson.edu or visit us at G-01 Sikes Hall. Our fax number is 864-656-1831 if needed. Any other advice? With all the forms, deadlines and acronyms that are involved, financial aid can seem very confusing. Your best strategy is to apply early, read and follow all instructions, keep copies of documents and respond promptly to follow-up requests. Please call on us at 864-656-2280 or visit us in G-01 Sikes Hall if you have concerns. Other Frequency Asked Questions FAQ about Scholarships FAQ about Residency FAQ about S.C. LIFE Scholarship FAQ about Palmetto Fellows FAQ about Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ about Study Abroad Financial Aid Home Types of Students Types of Aid Aid Eligibility Deadlines and Timeline Costs Forms and Resources Summer Session Aid Terms and Conditions FAQ Contact Us Consumer Information Related Links iROAR Financial Literacy Residency Classification Accepted Students International Services Graduate School Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram