COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: English, Minor MinorEnglish All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences English Language and Literature A minor in English from Wichita State is an ideal complement to virtually any major—and is an asset for success in a wide variety of careers requiring critical thinking, creativity and communication. Learn how English is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The minor requires 15-credit-hours. You'll choose from one of the following: ENGL 310 – Nature of Poetry ENGL 320 – Nature of Drama ENGL 330 – Nature of Fiction You'll also complete four more English courses (12 hours), based on your interests and career goals. At least nine hours must be in upper-division work. View the curriculum Careers A degree in English from Wichita State will equip you with skills that lead to diverse career options in the public and private sectors—from advertising agencies and the film industry to non-profits and academia. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs English Creative Writing Communication - Journalism Communication - Strategic Communication 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©