Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Core Curriculum The History of Core Renewal Complex Problems & Enduring Questions The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions As a member of the class of 2026, you are invited to enroll in Boston College’s innovative, team-taught Core courses: Complex Problems and Enduring Questions. Each one is collaboratively taught by two faculty members from different academic departments, and each is designed to engage students in interdisciplinary explorations of topics of critical importance. These include areas such as ethics and engineering; race and violence; markets, cultures, and values; economics, law, and health policy; the value of freedom; psychological and literary perspectives of disability; and more. Complex Problems and Enduring Questions courses extend inquiry beyond the classroom to labs, reflection sessions, conversations with outside speakers, and off-campus field visits, creating an intensive shared learning experience for both teachers and students. They exemplify Boston College’s innovative approach to Core education by establishing a foundation for students’ intellectual development and preparing them to become engaged, effective world citizens. You will have the opportunity to enroll in this fall’s Complex Problems and Enduring Questions courses when you register during your summer orientation session. Both are worth six credits and fulfill two of the University’s Core Curriculum requirements. In November, you will be eligible to register for Fall 2022 Complex Problems and Enduring Questions courses, which are also listed in the brochure. View The Fall 2022 Course Brochure Play Students and faculty discuss the benefits of Complex Problems and Enduring Questions courses. Fall 2022 Complex Problems and Enduring Questions Courses Complex Problems Enduring Questions Complex Problems Courses Complex Problems courses are six-credit courses, team-taught by two professors from different disciplines. Students meet multiple days each week for lectures and once per week for lab. Students and faculty also gather for weekly Reflection sessions, which may involve group activities; guest speakers, or field trips off campus. Each paired Complex Problems course fulfills two Core requirements. Some may fill an additional Core requirement for Cultural Diversity, through either Difference, Justice and the Common Good (DJCG) or Engaging Difference and Justice (EDJ). If you have any questions about these courses or how to register, e-mail core@bc.edu. Making the Modern World: Design, Ethics, & Engineering ENGR1801 + HIST1627 ▶ Fulfills 1 Natural Science + 1 History II + Cultural Diversity through EDJ Course Information Jenna Tonn, Engineering Glenn Gaudette, Engineering Russell Powell, Core Fellow, Theology Together we will consider how engineers and other stakeholders navigate risks related to industrial and environmental disasters; balance financial, technological, and regulatory pressures associated with complex socio-technical problems; and negotiate technical and political liabilities surrounding artificial intelligence, surveillance, and climate adaptation. Students will collaborate on group design projects based on human-centered engineering. Engineering systems present pressing technical, ethical, and moral problems that we must grapple with as engaged global citizens. In this class, students will explore the social, cultural, and institutional history of engineering; learn foundational skills in quantitative analysis of real-world engineering designs; and understand the political, environmental, economic, and ethical trade-offs associated with building the modern world. These course lectures meet T TH 10:30–11:45 a.m. You must select one of the following lab sections with your registration TH 12–1:50 p.m. TH 2–3:50 p.m. F 10–11:50 a.m. Reflection will be held TH 6–7:25 p.m. Global Implications of Climate Change SOCY1501 + EESC1501 ▶ Fulfills 1 Social Science + 1 Natural Science + Cultural Diversity through EDJ Course Information Brian Gareau, Sociology and International Studies Tara Pisani Gareau, Earth and Environmental Sciences Robin Wright, Core Fellow, Environmental Studies Climate change is one of the defining issues of our time. Decisive and swift action to mitigate carbon emissions is needed in order to prevent catastrophic events and unhealthy environments for future generations. Societies worldwide will need to adapt to a new environmental reality. However, the causes, effects, and costs of climate change are not equally distributed, which raises ethical questions about responsibility and justice. This course will encourage critical engagement with and personal reflection on these important issues, covering the science behind climate change, the roles that social, political, and economic conditions play in understanding and internalizing climate change, and the different roles of governments, businesses, religious communities, and individuals for enacting (or preventing!) ambitious solutions to climate change. These course lectures meet T TH 1:30–2:45 p.m. You must select one of the following lab sections with your registration W 3–4:50 p.m. W 5:30–7:20 p.m. F 10–11:50 a.m. F 1–2:50 p.m. Reflection will be held T 6–7:25 p.m. Powering America: The Past and Future of Energy, Technology, and the Environment EESC1507 + HIST1513 ▶ Fulfills 1 History II + 1 Natural Science Course Information John Ebel, Earth and Environmental Sciences Conevery Valencius, History Vena Offen, Core Fellow, Environmental Studies This course explores U.S. energy from the perspectives of history, culture, technology, engineering, and foreign policy. We ask how we created and distributed energy in the past, how energy systems function in the present, and how they may evolve. We investigate energy production, distribution, and use—coal, oil, nuclear power, hydropower, wind, and solar power—along with cables, pipelines, and transmission systems. Through hands-on exercises and field trips, students learn how past technological and economic choices shaped current U.S. energy systems, affect the environment, and how sustainable energy systems will be in the future. These course lectures meet T TH 3–4:15 p.m. You must select one of the following lab sections with your registration M 9–10:50 a.m. M 12–1:50 p.m. W 9–10:50 a.m. W 12–1:50 p.m. Reflection will be held T 6–7:25 p.m. Real Estate and Urban Action: Transforming Communities and Increasing Access to Opportunity ECON1704 + UNAS1725 ▶ Fulfills 2 Social Science Course Information Geoffrey Sanzenbacher, Economics Neil McCullagh, Carroll School of Management Nora Gross, Core Fellow, Sociology This course explores concepts of social economic and racial inequality with a focus on the interaction between housing, labor markets, and the ultimate accumulation of wealth. Housing will be examined through a study of the history of affordable housing, an exploration of the transformation of Columbia Point Public Housing Development to Harbor Point, and an applied simulation. Labor markets will be explored at the theoretical level (e.g., labor supply/demand, human capital, discrimination) before diving into data and literature on how changes over the last 40 years have expanded inequality. The course will conclude with how the lack of both affordable housing and quality labor market opportunities can interact to restrict intergenerational wealth accumulation and opportunity. It will challenge students to explore and test solutions for transforming distressed communities into safe, desirable neighborhoods that produce better outcomes for all residents through field projects, simulations, and a practical final project. These course lectures meet T TH 10:30–11:45 a.m. You must select one of the following lab sections with your registration W 10–11:50 a.m. W 3–4:50 p.m. F 10–11:50 a.m. F 1–2:50 p.m. Reflection will be held M 6–7:25 p.m. Beyond Price: Markets, Cultures, Values ECON1501 + ENGL1503 ▶ Fulfills 1 Social Science + 1 Literature Course Information Can Erbil, Economics Kalpana Seshadri, English This course is about wealth and values—what it means to “know the price of everything and the value of nothing.” In an era where the super-rich seem to have so much glamor and power, we examine how the economy, values, and the dominance of the market hold sway in our environment and personal lives. We look at markets, incentives, ecology, and ethics through the lenses of literature and economics, and use case studies to explore the relationship between business decisions and market interests and their impact on ordinary lives. These course lectures meet T TH 12–1:15 p.m. You must select one of the following lab sections with your registration M 9–10:15 a.m. M 10:30–11:45 a.m. W 12–1:15 p.m. M 1:30–2:45 p.m. Reflection will be held TH 6–7:50 p.m. Enduring Questions Courses Enduring Questions courses are two linked three-credit courses taught by professors from different disciplines. The same 19 students take both classes. Four times during the semester, students and faculty gather for Reflection sessions, which may involve group activities, guest speakers, or field trips off campus. Each pair of Enduring Questions courses fulfills two Core requirements. Some may fill an additional Core requirement for Cultural Diversity through either Difference, Justice and the Common Good (DJCG) or Engaging Difference and Justice (EDJ). If you have any questions about these courses or how to register, e-mail core@bc.edu. Life, Liberty, and Health: The Economics of Healthcare (ECON1702) Life, Liberty, and Health: Policy, Politics, and Law (UNAS1702) ▶ Fulfills 1 Social Science + 1 History II + Cultural Diversity through EDJ Course Information Tracy Regan, Economics Mary Ann Chirba, BC Law Why is health care so interconnected with policy, law, and economics? We have rights to vote and free speech, but do we have a right to health? With the global COVID-19 pandemic, access to health care and health insurance have become more important than ever in the pursuit of life, liberty, and health. Topics include the history of our health care system, prescription drug costs, vaccine mandates, the opioid crisis, youth vaping, and sports-related concussions. Such complex issues are best understood through interdisciplinary study. Through the lens of contemporary problems, students will learn basic principles of economics and law, and examine how they intersect to drive health policy involving the enduring questions of government authority and individual autonomy, morality and ethics, and social justice and human rights. These course lectures meet T TH 1:30–2:45 p.m. T TH 3–4:15 p.m. Reflection will be held TH 6–7:50 p.m. Roots and Routes: Writing Identity (ENGL1713) Roots & Routes: Reading Identity (ENGL1712) ▶ Fulfills Writing + Literature Course Information Lynne Anderson, English Elizabeth Graver, English How does migration in today’s world shape questions of identity, borders, belonging, and this reimagining of home? We will read a range of fiction, nonfiction, and poetry (including spoken word poems) by authors whose migration stories to the United States offer multiple ways to think about what it means to be an outsider and build a new life and home. We will explore our own migration stories—the “routes” that brought us here and the ways in which our family “roots” shape our identities. Some of the questions we will consider include: What are the gifts and challenges of making a home across cultures? Of being multilingual? What do you know—and what don’t you know—about your own family’s migration story, whether recent or more removed? How might that story intersect with the topics we encounter in our texts? How does the writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s TED Talk on the “danger of the single story” invite us to ask questions about power, memory, silence, and voice? What does it mean to migrate in a globalized, wired, yet often divided world? These course lectures meet T TH 10:30–11:45 a.m. T TH 12–1:15 p.m. Reflection will be held W 6–7:50 p.m. The Rule of Law and the Complex Meaning of Justice (UNAS1719) The Role of Literature in Understanding the Complex Meaning of Justice (ENGL1729) ▶ Fulfills 1 Social Science + Literature + Cultural Diversity through DJCG Course Information R. Michael Cassidy, BC Law Marla DeRosa, English How do societies define justice, and what role do lawyers, authors, and dramatists play in illuminating the many complex issues underlying this concept? Through the analysis of fiction and nonfiction, students in these linked courses will discover multifaceted conceptions of justice and injustice in our society. The courses will ask fundamental questions about justice: How do we define justice? Are lawyers more often portrayed as impediments to justice or as champions of justice, and which portrayal is more accurate? What do we mean by the “rule of law?” What happens when a person’s moral values conflict with the obligations of the law? How have these questions and tensions been portrayed by dramatists throughout the ages? In what ways can literary texts serve as arguments for justice? Shared texts between the two courses would likely include A Civil Action and Just Mercy. These course lectures meet T TH 12–1:15 p.m. T TH 1:30–2:45 p.m. Reflection will be held T 6–7:50 p.m. Nature and Power: Making the Modern World (HIST1710) Nature and Power: Reading the American Place (ENGL1724) ▶ Fulfills Literature + 1 History II Course Information Ling Zhang, History Suzanne Matson, English How does nature act upon us and our imaginations, and how do we act upon it—transforming and representing it? How do our links with nature change across time and place to produce the modern world and contemporary consciousness? These paired courses use global comparative case histories and in-depth literary readings of the American place to trace changing conceptual frameworks of both conquest and conservation. Students will think critically, write analytically and reflectively, and venture beyond the classroom for urban walks, museum visits, and a field trip to Walden Pond. These course lectures meet T TH 9–10:15 a.m. T TH 10:30–11:45 a.m. Reflection will be held TH 6–7:50 p.m. What is the Good Life? Tolstoy to Chekov (CLAS1704) God and the Good Life (THEO1702) ▶ Fulfills Literature + 1 Theology II Course Information Thomas Epstein, Classical Studies Stephen Pope, Theology What does the “good life” mean in thought and action to each of us as a human being? Students will consider literary and theological ways of thinking about what constitutes "the good life," exploring major texts in the Christian tradition (Augustine, Thomas Aquinas, and Dorothy Day) and giants of 19th century Russian literature (Leo Tolstoy, Fyodor Dostoevsky, and Anton Chekhov). Approaching our subject both from a disciplinary and broadly humanistic perspective, we will investigate our personal, social, and spiritual commitments as they engage the common good, the pursuit of happiness, and the good in life. Our reflection sessions will take us out of the classroom to meet people who are trying to serve the common good. These course lectures meet T TH 1:30–2:45 p.m. T TH 3–4:15 p.m. Reflection will be held T 6–7:50 p.m. From Hiroshima to K-Pop: Filmmakers’ Perspectives (UNAS1717) From Hiroshima to K-Pop: Historical Perspectives (UNAS1716) ▶ Fulfills Arts + History II Course Information Christina Klein, English Ingu Hwang, International Studies What is the relationship between politics and popular culture? How did East Asia emerge from the wreckage of the Second World War to become the dominant political, economic, and cultural force it is in the world today? What is the relationship between politics and popular culture? Since 1945, East Asia has experienced the Cold War, civil war, communist revolution, modernization, capitalism, democratization, and economic booms and busts. It has also become a powerhouse producer of popular and art cinema. In these paired courses, students will explore the relationship between politics and culture as they learn how historians and filmmakers have grappled with the tumultuous events of the past 75 years. These course lectures meet T TH 12–1:15 p.m. T TH 1:30–2:45 p.m. Reflection will be held M 7–8:50 p.m. Geographies of Imperialism: History of Colonization (HIST1716) Geographies of Imperialism: Theology of Colonization (THEO1707) ▶ Fulfills History I + 1 Theology (Sacred Texts & Traditions) + Cultural Diversity through DJCG and EDJ Course Information Elizabeth Shlala, History Natana DeLong-Bas, Theology The age of empires is past—or is it? In this course, we examine the enduring ideas of empires and their challengers through the present day using the lenses of history and theology (Christianity and Islam). Beginning with the traditional geographies of maps, we explore how empires colonized not only territories with physical borders, but also bodies and minds, using race, gender, sexuality, ethnicity, education, laws, and institutions. Using the British and French empires in the Middle East and North Africa as case studies, we will identify and question how to overcome the boundaries still imposed on people today. These course lectures meet M W F 1–1:50 p.m. M W F 2–2:50 p.m. Reflection will be held (4 times per semester) TH 6–7:50 p.m. St. Petersburg: Dream & Reality (CLAS1703) Rome: Art, Regime & Resistance (CLAS1702) ▶ Fulfills Literature + History I Course Information Thomas Epstein, Classical Studies Christophr Polt, Classical Studies To what kinds of life and culture do great cities give rise? Rome is the West’s oldest archetype of the imperial city; St. Petersburg the youngest, and perhaps, last. To what kinds of life and culture do great cities give rise? Exploring artistic, intellectual, and social dimensions of Rome and St. Petersburg, we will ask about the responsibility of the human person to the society in which he or she lives. How do artists respond to official conceptions of identity and how, conversely, does the state view its artists and intellectuals? How are local and national self-identities made and unmade by art and artists? Our reflection sessions will explore how these questions find expression in our own first “great” city, Boston. These course lectures meet M W 1:30–2:45 p.m. M W 3–4:15 p.m. Reflection will be held (4 times per semester) By arrangement Spiritual Exercises: Engagement, Empathy, Ethics (THEO1701) Aesthetic Exercises: Engagement, Empathy, Ethics (MUSA1701) ▶ Fulfills 1 Theology (Christian Theology) + Arts Course Information Brian Robinette, Theology Daniel Callahan, Music How might we train for encounters with beauty and the sacred? One objective of these linked courses is to help students realize that their own personal experiences can be the departing point for—and even the subject of—scholarly inquiry; that theology, the arts, and philosophy are not mere disciplines to be learned but practices that are indispensable to being alive and serving the common good. Another aim is for students to realize that deeply meaningful experiences—whether of the true, the beautiful, and the good or the divine in the world and in one’s self—often don’t just happen. Instead, such experiences are usually the result of being situated in the right place and time with the right preparation and mindset; in other words, they are usually the result of a certain type of exercise. These course lectures meet T TH 12–1:15 p.m. T TH 1:30–2:45 p.m. Reflection will be held (4 times per semester) T 6–7:50 p.m. Flawed Founders: George Washington and the Mythology of a Heroic President (POLI1051) Flawed Founders: King David and the Theology of a Political Hero (THEO1710) ▶ Fulfills 1 Social Science + 1 Theology (Sacred Texts & Traditions) Course Information Marc Landy, Political Science David Vanderhooft, Theology How can we understand the greatness of heroic political founders who are also flawed human beings? Ancient Israel’s monarchy and America’s constitutional democracy represent two historically influential and innovative political systems. Each had a major founder, King David and George Washington, respectively, who transcended their times and exemplified greatness. David’s messianic identity and theological legacy remain enduring elements of Jewish and Christian theological reflection. Washington’s mythological status persists in the American secular imagination. Yet both figures betrayed significant personal flaws: temper; self-doubt; political conniving; immoral treatment of women, slaves, and peers; and dubious military judgment. Must great founders also be moral exemplars? What obligations do we have today to celebrate, condemn, study, and understand these flawed founders? These course lectures meet T TH 12–1:15 p.m. T TH 1:30–2:45 p.m. Reflection will be held: (4 times per semester) TH 6–7:50 p.m. Coming of Age in Literature (UNAS1708) Coming of Age in Film (FILM1701) ▶ Fulfills Arts + Literature Course Information Susan Michalczyk, MCAS College Faculty John Michalczyk, Art, Art History & Film When do we come of age? We ask whether the depiction of coming of age experiences provides readers/viewers with ways to navigate and contextualize concepts of self and community within the complex social, political, religious, and psychological forces that create the worlds in which we live. When do we come of age? What influences our actions and reactions throughout our journey into adulthood? How do these experiences affect the lives we choose to lead? From times of crisis to moments of calm, childhood memories cover a range of experiences, from the mundane to the transformational. Literature and film adaptations can capture both the individual and collective experience of these critical years of development and memorialize a common experience of both private and public struggles. In both courses, students will analyze approaches used by authors and directors to connect these individual moments to current social concerns. These course lectures meet T TH 12–1:15 p.m. T TH 1:30–2:45 p.m. Reflection will be held: (4 times per semester) TH 6–7:50 p.m. The Meaning of Boston: Literature and Culture (ENGL1735) The Meaning of Boston: History and Memory (HIST1630) ▶ Fulfills Literature and 1 History II Course Information Carlo Rotella, English David Quigley, History, Provost and Dean of Faculties What does a city—this city in which we find ourselves—mean? Meaning flows through a city just as populations, capital, power, resources, and ideas do, and each of these flows conditions the others. As we consider what Boston has meant in different moments and to different people, we engage follow-up questions: How does the form of a text express meaning? How can we understand the relationship between that text and the historical moment in which it took form, and/or the historical moment it seeks to capture? What happens when we consider the local in relation to national and international events and artistic movements? Our students develop skills of historical reasoning, learn how to interpret works of literature and allied arts, and will sharpen their analytical thinking and writing skills within the disciplinary traditions of history and literary/cultural studies. We will encourage them to move beyond the received meanings and standard tropes of Boston—the accent, the city on a hill, the regular-guy mythos retailed by Hollywood—and explore questions that Boston has consistently raised about human beings and nature, race and class difference, the form and function of the good life, the double-edged quality of moral causes, and the contest between the persistence of old ways and the succession of new ones. These course lectures meet T TH 12–1:15 p.m. T TH 1:30–2:45 p.m. Reflection will be held (4 times per semester) T 6–7:50 p.m. Growing Up Gendered: Contemporary Media Representations (COMM2216) Growing Up Gendered: Socio-Cultural Perspectives on Gender in Contemporary Society (SOCY1708) ▶ Fulfills Literature + 1 Social Science + Cultural Diversity through EDJ Course Information Lisa Cuklanz, Communication Sharlene Hesse-Biber, Sociology How is our gendered identity constructed? In these linked classes, we will explore How different eras and cultures have pressured people to grow up as either male or female, and to behave in masculine or feminine ways. We will ask: how is our gendered identity constructed? How do families, schools, the mass media, and our social relationships online and off reinforce or challenge gender identities? Why do conversations about gender get bound up in discussions of sexual behaviors and preferences? How do gender and sexuality intersect with other dimensions of personal identity, such as race and religion? These course lectures meet T TH 12–1:15 p.m. T TH 1:30–2:45 p.m. Reflection will be held (4 times per semester) TH 6–7:50 p.m. Maternity and Science: Society, Culture, and Public Health (PHCG1701) Maternity and Science: Neuroscience and Genetics (UNAS1718) ▶ Fulfills 1 Social Science + 1 Natural Science Course Information Tara Casebolt, Core Fellow, Global Public Health and the Common Good Jessica Black, Graduate School of Social Work In what ways is the maternal experience informed and determined? Birth is one of the building blocks of the human experience. Throughout history, cultures around the world have developed specific beliefs, traditions, and rituals regarding menstruation, pregnancy, birth, and infant care. These are related to the societal structures in which they have emerged. An understanding of these beliefs and traditions and the society in which they have developed is an important part of delivering culturally competent reproductive health care. In addition, specific populations have been and continue to be mistreated by the medical establishment regarding pregnancy and birth, including Indigenous communities, prisoners, people living in poverty, and African Americans. It is essential to be aware of historically mistreated populations to create a health care system based on justice and equity. In this survey course, a number of topics related to the historical, societal, and cultural elements of reproductive health will be discussed through the lens of public health. These course lectures meet T TH 10:30–11:45 a.m. T TH 12–1:15 p.m. Reflection will be held (4 times per semester) By arrangement The Formation of Early Christian Thought: A Theological Examination (THEO1722) The Formation of Early Christian Thought: A Philosophical Examination (PHIL1722) ▶ Fulfills 1 Theology (Christian Theology) + 1 Philosophy Course Information David Hunter, Theology Sarah Byers, Philosophy How did Greco-Roman philosophy contribute to rational Christian theology? These courses address the enduring question of the relationship between faith and reason. In the early Christian era, leading intellectuals attempted to integrate the Jewish and Christian scriptures and traditions with rational philosophy. They employed Greek and Roman philosophy to reflect upon foundational issues in metaphysics, human psychology, epistemology, ethics, and God’s action in time. We will examine important concepts, arguments, and theories of ancient pagan philosophers (Plato, Aristotle, Seneca, Epictetus, Plotinus) and trace their adoption and adaptation by leading Christians (Justin Martyr, Origen, Lactantius, Athanasius, Augustine). These course lectures meet M W F 1–1:50 p.m. M W F 2–2:50 p.m. Reflection will be held (4 times per semester) W 6–7:50 p.m. Reckoning with Incarceration: The Stories that Must Be Told (UNAS1726) Reckoning with Incarceration: Understanding Administrative Violence (UNAS1727) ▶ Fulfills Literature + 1 Social Science Course Information Celeste Wells, Communication Andrés Castro Samayoa, Lynch School of Education and Human Development How do U.S. beliefs around justice, dignity, vengeance, safety, and rehabilitation shape administrative practices of incarceration and their effects on those imprisoned, their families, and their victims? We will consider the ways that the universal needs of justice and safety are understood by the legal system, social institutions (e.g., schools) and popular culture, as well as victims and perpetrators of crime, and the families of both. Both courses will take for granted that the current mass incarceration system has been designed to focus on retribution versus rehabilitation and that ever-increasing mass incarceration rates are predicated on a legal system demonstrated to mete out justice unequally. Each class will examine said beliefs through the differing lenses of social science and literature. These course lectures meet T TH 9–10:15 a.m. T TH 10:30–11:45 a.m. Reflection will be held: (4 times per semester) TH 6–7:50 p.m. Back To Top Back To Top Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College