Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES FRENCH AND ITALIAN STUDIES TEXTUAL AND DIGITAL STUDIES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 TXTDS 224 Histories and Futures of the Book, Texts and Reading (5) VLPA/I&S From medieval manuscripts to commercially printed books to today's rapidly recycled digital content, explores how changing forms have shaped the ways texts have been read and understood, how the spread of printing technology impacted the modern world, how the book-form became dominant, and how a new media revolution (the mass digitization of texts) is again reshaping access to and understanding of the past. Offered: jointly with FRENCH 224/JSIS A 224. View course details in MyPlan: TXTDS 224 TXTDS 267 Data Science and the Humanities (5) VLPA Applications of concepts and methods in data science to the study of the literary and cultural texts and to the study of language. Also explores humanistic perspectives on the role of data and data science in society. View course details in MyPlan: TXTDS 267 TXTDS 401 Text Technologies (5, max. 10) VLPA/I&S Historical, conceptual, theoretical, and critical perspectives on world texts from antiquity to the digital age. Manuscript circulation of texts in the Middle Ages and modern times; global histories of the rise and spread of print technologies; preservation, access, reuse, and recycling of text. Impacts of digitization and textual data on reading and on repositories and institutions, such as libraries. View course details in MyPlan: TXTDS 401 TXTDS 402 Book Arts (5, max. 10) VLPA Material forms of texts, with emphasis on form of the book. May include artists' books, bibliography, and study of early printed books, typography; study of manuscripts, bindings, and letterforms from scripts to fonts. Skills needed for working with primary sources and textual artifacts, potentially including materials in UW Special Collections. View course details in MyPlan: TXTDS 402 TXTDS 403 Archives, Data, and Databases (5, max. 10) VLPA/I&S Textual archives and databases; their historical construction and role as mediators to the past, bringing light to and obscuring/reshaping the past. Digitization of archives and repositories. Transformation of historical texts into data, which can be searched, processed, and analyzed in new ways. Techniques for building, organizing, and analyzing archives and databases. View course details in MyPlan: TXTDS 403 TXTDS 404 Texts, Publics and Publication (5, max. 10) I&S/VLPA Texts as public documents and the outcome of editorial and publication processes. Historical perspectives on editing and on factors shaping access to and circulation of texts, including politics, religion, censorship, copyright, technology, and commerce. Digital editing and publishing. Digitization, transcription, text encoding, and web publication. Hosting, using a variety of platforms. View course details in MyPlan: TXTDS 404 TXTDS 405 Capstone in Textual Studies and Digital Humanities (5) Capstone in Textual Studies and Digital Humanities minor. View course details in MyPlan: TXTDS 405 TXTDS 413 Texts, Data, and Computation (5) VLPA, QSR Understand, organize, analyze, interpret and visualize cultural and literary texts as data using computational methods and tools. Emphasizes techniques in text analysis and text mining, data visualization, network analysis, algorithmic reading, programming and database building. View course details in MyPlan: TXTDS 413 TXTDS 414 Digital Editing and Text Processing for Publication (5) VLPA/I&S Texts as public documents and the outcome of editorial and publication processes. Historical perspectives on editing and on factors shaping access to and circulation of texts, including politics, religion, censorship, copyright, technology, and commerce. Emphasis on digital editing, text encoding, database building, and on techniques for processing, querying, and publishing texts and textual databases. View course details in MyPlan: TXTDS 414 TXTDS 501 Text Technologies (5, max. 10) Historical, conceptual, theoretical, and critical perspectives on world texts from antiquity to the digital age. Manuscript circulation of texts in the Middle Ages and modern times; global histories of the rise and spread of print technologies; preservation, access, reuse, and recycling of text. Impacts of digitization and textual data on reading and on repositories and institutions, such as libraries. View course details in MyPlan: TXTDS 501 TXTDS 502 Book Arts (5, max. 10) Material forms of texts, with emphasis on form of the book. May include artists' books, bibliography, and study of early printed books, typography; study of manuscripts, bindings, and letterforms from scripts to fonts. Skills needed for working with primary sources and textual artifacts, potentially including materials in UW Special Collections. View course details in MyPlan: TXTDS 502 TXTDS 503 Archives, Data, and Databases (5, max. 10) Textual archives and databases; their historical construction and role as mediators to the past, bringing light to and obscuring/reshaping the past. Digitization of archives and repositories. Transformation of historical texts into data, which can be searched, processed, and analyzed in new ways. Techniques for building, organizing, and analyzing archives and databases. View course details in MyPlan: TXTDS 503 TXTDS 504 Texts, Publics and Publication (5, max. 10) Texts as public documents and the outcome of editorial and publication processes. Historical perspectives on editing and on factors shaping access to and circulation of texts, including politics, religion, censorship, copyright, technology, and commerce. Digital editing and publishing. Digitization, transcription, text encoding, and web publication. Hosting, using a variety of platforms. View course details in MyPlan: TXTDS 504 TXTDS 505 Capstone in Textual Studies and Digital Humanities (1) Capstone in Textual and Digital Studies. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: TXTDS 505 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022