Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home News 2022 Grad Profile: Anne Cordova O'Connell Profile 2022 Grad Profile: Anne Cordova O'Connell April 27, 2022 Anne Cordova O’Connell Undergraduate Where are you from? Connecticut Major: English and history Tell us about your path to GS! The large windows, potted plants, and colorful books of the library were my sanctuary, giving me one place that still felt like real life. I had lost so much time, but simultaneously had a seemingly-infinite amount of it, so I read. Obsessed with escaping these walls to the world outside, I read everything from classic novels to math textbooks: I spent my time in prison reading as much as possible, and using the library as my only place of respite from the sadness, hopelessness, and loneliness of life behind bars. I am indebted to Mr. Joseph Lea, the prison library correctional officer, who offered me the job of inmate librarian. The library was a window through which I could glimpse into intellectual life and academia, a world that had been inaccessible to me due to the suffocating grip of my opiate addiction. Though my world had physically become so small—my jail cell, the chow hall, and the library—my mind had begun to expand again. No amount of drugs or prison time could erase the fact that I had always loved learning. Years down the road, I was nannying for a family and used to fold and put their clothes away. They had a bunch of Columbia t-shirts. I thought it was the country! I had no idea Columbia was even a university. Then one day I saw someone I used to be locked up with in a taco joint in Stamford, CT. We got to talking, and she introduced me to the Justice-in-Education Initiative. It is a program through Columbia that helps people who are formerly incarcerated gain access to higher education. I went through the program and eventually applied to GS. I couldn't believe I got in! I am still in shock! What has been your proudest Columbia moment? My first class at GS was University Writing and I was so lost and confused. I would go to office hours again and again, feeling so hopeless about my writing. One time I walked up to the door, put my hand on the door knob, and turned around and walked out of the building. I couldn't bring myself to walk into office hours one more time and leave confused and hopeless. But when I was halfway out the door, I turned around and forced myself back into that room. I am so grateful I did. Even though University Writing is still the lowest grade on my transcript, I learned the most from that course—to unapologetically ask for help, to go to the Writing Center as much as possible, and to be patient, work hard, and eventually get good results. Who are some people who have contributed the most to your Columbia experience? Professor Edward Mendelson's course on Virginia Woolf taught me to not only be a better writer, but also a better reader. He reads literature and teaches it in a way that makes everyone identify a piece of themselves in each text. What are your plans for after graduation? I am going to be working as a legal assistant for a criminal defense attorney and then heading off to law school. What advice would you give to a Columbia student starting their GS journey? Ask for a lot of help: talk to other GS students, ask questions, go to office hours, do not be ashamed to say "I don't know what the heck you're talking about!" Tags Student Profile Undergraduate News May 27, 2022 Join Us: Columbia Reunion Weekend in New York City May 26, 2022 Lewisohn Hall Summer Closure | Summer 2022 Temporary Relocation to Uris Hall May 26, 2022 Postbac Premed Program Institutional Scholarship Application May 24, 2022 GS Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Ceremony May 24, 2022 Academic Resource Center Summer Offerings Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close