Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Diversity and Inclusion Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Diversity and Inclusion Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Diversity and Inclusion Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Diversity and Inclusion Learn to negotiate issues of power in a variety of settings, and position yourself to act as an advocate and organizer for people who have been systematically marginalized based on a variety of socially constructed characteristics with the Diversity and Inclusion Undergraduate Certificate in Temple’s College of Education and Human Development. This 12-credit undergraduate certificate fosters communication and leadership skills with the goal of educating others on issues of power and removing barriers to equity. A certificate in Diversity and Inclusion enables and empowers students to become leaders in both public and private sectors, able to aid and support those marginalized due to disability, ethnicity, immigration status, race and/or socioeconomic status. Developing skills to lead organizations and groups as they navigate issues of power is consistent with the mission and goals of Temple University and the College of Education and Human Development. Graduates of this program will be prepared to work toward greater pluralism and act to provide more equitable opportunities for people in a variety of settings. Intended for early-career undergraduate students at Temple University, graduates of the Diversity and Inclusion Undergraduate Certificate will be able to communicate complex ideas related to equity in a variety of settings. Submission of a final reflective paper is required to complete the certificate. Delivery Method All courses are offered in-person at Temple University’s Main Campus. Classes & Curriculum You must complete 12 credit hours (four courses) in order to earn the certificate. Topics covered in the curriculum include inclusive education, interpersonal communication and understanding urban communities. See a full list of Diversity and Inclusion Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd Educational Leadership and Policy MEd with a concentration in Urban Education Special Education MEd Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) MSEd Related Graduate Certificates Disability Studies Diversity Leadership Urban Education Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors A faculty program coordinator provides academic support and helps students navigate the certificate program. Program Contact Shanta Hattikudur, associate professor of instruction, is the program coordinator for the Undergraduate Certificate in Diversity and Inclusion. Phone: 215-204-6101 Email: shanta@temple.edu Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-DI-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Diversity and Inclusion Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info