4401 Martin Luther King Blvd Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2020 | Monday - Friday 8AM -6PM Toggle navigation UHCO Homepage Request An Eye Appointment Order Contacts Our Services Eye Exams Contact Lenses Pediatrics Essilor Optical Services The Center For Sight Enhancement Dry Eye Medical Eye The Myopia Management Service Brain Injuries Patient Information Why the UEI? Tips during COVID-19 What to Bring To Your Appointment Insurance & Payment Options Directions to the UEI Emergency Care Our Clinical Faculty Your Privacy Rights Internet Eyeglasses Policy Internet Eyeglasses Policy (español) TIPS from the UEI Helpful information for you from the University Eye Institute during COVID-19. Learn More Order Contact Lenses The University Eye Institute is available at (713) 743-2015 or online to assist you with all of your contact lens needs. Order Today Prescription Eyewear Essilor Optical Services Essilor Optical Services provides quality prescription eyewear and sunglasses to the public at competitive prices. With over 1,500 frames from which to choose, our patients are sure to find name brand name frames that not only look great but fit great. Contact Lenses Cornea & Contact Lens Service Provides comprehensive vision care including fitting and prescribing customized contact lenses to correct myopia (nearsightedness), hyperopia (farsightedness), astigmatism and presbyopia (age-related problem of focusing at near). Eye Exams Family Practice Service Provides complete vision care for individuals six years of age and older. Learn More Brain Injuries Brain Injury Vision Assessment & Rehabilitation Provides complete vision care for individuals six years of age and older. Learn More University Eye Institute UHCO Homepage Request An Eye Appointment Order Contacts Our Services Patient Information The Surgery Center Cedar Springs Eye Clinic Insurance & Payment Options Patient Registration Tips during COVID-19 Our Clinical Faculty What to Bring To Your Appointment Why the UEI? The University Eye Institute Located on the main campus of the University of Houston and has been serving the vision needs of the city of Houston since 1952. The University Eye Institute (UEI) offers ophthalmic services that range from comprehensive vision examinations, to the medical and surgical management of eye disorders. Patients are seen by highly trained optometrists and ophthalmologists, with expertise in every area of eye care. Our faculty, many of which are known nationally or worldwide for their contributions to the field, have access to advanced diagnostic instruments in over 80 exam rooms and 30 specialized testing areas, ensuring that our patients receive quality care, utilizing the latest in vision technology. Trust your vision with Houston's leading eye and vision center, the University Eye Institute. COVID-19 information for the University Eye Institute Due to COVID-19 concerns, the University Eye Institute and all University of Houston College of Optometry affiliated clinics will be open for essential care only. If you need essential services or experience symptoms that need urgent attention, such as sudden vision loss, flashes or floaters in your vision, eye pain or redness, please call the University Eye Institute or the clinics. You can reach our staff 24/7 by calling 713-743-2020. Additional clinic contact information by location: The University Eye Institute (Houston, TX) – 713-743-2020 The UH Eye Center in the Heights (Houston, TX) – (713) 527-8480 Cedar Springs Eye Clinic (Dallas, TX) – (214) 528-7354 Community Eye Clinic (Fort Worth, TX) – (817) 289-6800 Our doctors will determine how to help you get the care you need. Patients asked to come in will be screened on entry with a questionnaire and a temperature check. Only one additional person can accompany you to the appointment. Prescriptions, Orders & Refills If you need to refill prescription medications, please call 713-743-2020. Contact lenses and glasses on order will be mailed to patients at no cost. To order a new supply of contact lenses, please call 713-743-2015. To replace lost or broken glasses from a prescription on-file call: 713-743-2030. The UH College of Optometry Surgical Center The Ambulatory Surgical Center is closed from March 23 until May 4th. Re-opening depends on the local public health guidelines. The health, wellbeing and safety of our patients, faculty, staff and students is of primary concern to us at the University Eye Institute and the UH College of Optometry. To read the University of Houston coronavirus advisory, click this link: https://www.uh.edu/internal-alerts/coronavirus/ Clinical Operations information was last updated on 04/21/2020 at 09:44 AM Directions to the UEI Learn More About Parking Changes The University Eye Institute is located at the central campus of the University of Houston. University Eye Institute 4401 Martin Luther King Blvd. Houston, Texas 77204 Get Driving Directions You have the right to receive a good faith estimate of expected charges. Applying to UHCO | University Eye Institute | The Surgery Center | Academic Programs NBEO Pass Rates | 2025 OD Class Profile | Current Research Studies | Faculty Directory | Administration | Continuing Education ©2022 University of Houston College of Optometry. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies