Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology School of Physics Menu Close About Mission Programs Organizations Employment Opportunities Faculty Position - Tenured/Tenured-Track Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics History Directions Guest Travel Contact Us Diversity Academics Courses Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Programs Research Research Activities Centers Undergraduate Research Conferences & Symposia People Professors Adjunct Faculty Professors of Practice Professors Emeriti Research Scientists Academic Professionals Postdoctoral Researchers Graduate Students Staff Awards and Honors In Remembrance News & Events Upcoming Events Events Archive News Archive Video Archive 2020 Speaker Series Alumni Alumni News & Events Giving Stories Apply Contact Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Twitter Google Plus LinkedIn Flickr YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here Home » Research Research Physics of Living Systems The Physics of Living Systems Group in the School of Physics at Georgia Tech seeks to understand how physics can inform questions of structure, function and dynamics in biological systems, and to study fundamental physics questions posed by biological systems. Faculty associated with the group work on problems in a range of biological length and time scales: from evolution of planetary ecosystems over hundreds of millions of years to locomotion of 10 cm long lizards running on sand at 1 m/sec, to the mechanics of ~20 micron diameter cells and their dynamics on second to minute time scales, to assembly of viruses within 100 msec to the study of how DNA packing influences transcriptional dynamics and activity at the molecular level. Faculty Members: Name Research Interests Research Website Jennifer Curtis Cell biophysics. Cell mechanics of adhesion, migration and dynamics. Immunophysics and immunoengineering. Hyaluronan glycobiology. Hyaluronan... Curtis Lab Website Flavio Fenton My work is on excitable media, complex systems, and pattern formation, using a combined approach of theory, experiments, and computer simulations.... Lab Website Daniel Goldman The biomechanics of locomotion of organisms and robots on and within complex materials. Physics of granular media. My research integrates my work in... Goldman Lab Website (contains up-to-date info on publications, news, CV, etc) James (JC) Gumbart Computational simulations of complex biophysical phenomena involving proteins and other biomolecules Gumbart Lab Website Harold Kim Single-molecule and single-cell studies of genome architecture. Harold Kim Lab Simon Sponberg Neuromechancis, Locomotor Control, Multiscale Physics of Muscle, Maneuverability, Computational Neuroscience For publications please refer to the... Sponberg Lab Website Peter Yunker Nonequilibrium systems, densely packed active matter with life and death events, microbial physics, structural mechanics, fracture mechanics,... Yunker Lab - Soft Matter of Life and Death Other Research Areas Astrophysics, Astroparticles, & Gravitation Atomic, Molecular, & Optical Physics Condensed Matter and Quantum Materials Non-linear Physics Physics of Living Systems Soft Matter Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum School of Physics Resources Guest Travel Academics Current Courses Course Catalog Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Apply now! About the School Contact Information Administration Committees History Giving to the School School of Physics Resources Job Opportunities Research Astrophysics, Astroparticles, & Gravitation Atomic, Molecular, & Optical Physics Condensed Matter & Materials Non-linear Physics Physics of Living Systems Soft Matter Undergraduate Research School of Physics Resources Other Resources Computer Support Information Security Policy On-campus Signage Room Request Safety Committees Staff: Who does what? School of Physics Georgia Institute of Technology 837 State Street Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0430 Phone: (404) 894-5201 Fax: (404) 894-9958 Site Map Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology