Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs Undergraduate Online Degree Programs Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate Degrees Business Computing Health Professions Humanities Social Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate DegreesArtsBusinessComputingEducationEngineeringHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesLiberal StudiesSocial Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us All Undergraduate Online Degree Programs Business Professions Accountancy The BBA degree with a major in Accounting (ACCT) at the University of Memphis is offered fully online by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. This degree requires 120 hours to complete and can include transfer of credit earned at other institutions. Learn More Business Information and Technology The BBA degree with a major in Business and Information and Technology (BIT) at the University of Memphis is offered fully online by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. This degree requires 120 hours to complete and can include transfer of credit earned at other institutions. Learn More Finance The BBA degree with a major in Finance (FIR) at the University of Memphis is offered fully online by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. This degree requires 120 hours to complete and can include transfer of credit earned at other institutions. Learn More Hospitality and Resort Management The Bachelor of Arts degree in Hospitality and Resort Management equips students with essential knowledge & skill needed in the increasingly competitive hotel, resort, culinary and tourism industries. We have a curriculum focus on hospitality business operations with real-world experiences that leads to successful careers and leadership positions in the rapidly expanding global hospitality industry. Learn More Management The BBA degree with a major in Management (MGMT) at the University of Memphis is offered fully online by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. This degree requires 120 hours to complete and can include transfer of credit earned at other institutions. The Human Resources concentration is also fully online. Learn More Marketing The BBA degree with a major in Marketing (MKTG) at the University of Memphis is offered fully online by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. This degree requires 120 hours to complete and can include transfer of credit earned at other institutions.. Learn More Professional Studies Designed for those who seek to advance their careers through a targeted professional program, the online professional studies degree provides students an opportunity to earn an individualized degree not traditionally offered by other colleges on the University of Memphis campus. Learn More Public Relations Public Relations practitioners link organizations with their consumers, stockholders, employees, communities and the mass media. PR students learn to write for clients, create promotional materials, plan events and develop media and message strategies. Learn More Real Estate The BBA degree with a major in Finance and concentration in Real Estate at the University of Memphis is offered fully online by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. This degree requires 120 hours to complete and can include transfer of credit earned at other institutions. Learn More Sport and Leisure Management The Sport and Leisure Management degree develops students with the skills essential to enter careers in marketing, management, facility and event operations, and other administrative positions in a constantly evolving sport and leisure marketplace. Program faculty focus on connecting academic knowledge with practical application to help students prepare for the sport and leisure industry. Learn More Supply Chain Management The Bachelors of Business Administration (BBA) degree with a major in Supply Chain Management (SCM) provides students with a thorough understanding of important SCM concepts, principles, and tools. Coursework addresses supply management, operations management, and logistics management areas. Learn More Professional Real Estate Program The Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate offers an undergraduate track in financial planning that meets the specific criteria for students who wish to fulfill the education component for obtaining CFP® certification. This financial planning education program is registered with the Certified Financial Planning Board of Standards Inc. to verify that the student has completed coursework covering all 72 topics tested on the CFP® Certification Exam. Learn More Computing Professions Business Information and Technology The BBA degree with a concentration in Business and Information and Technology (BIT) at the University of Memphis is offered fully online by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. This degree requires 120 hours to complete and can include transfer of credit earned at other institutions. Learn More Health RN-BSN The University of Memphis Loewenberg College of Nursing (LCON) is proud to offer an online Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree to Registered Nurses based on the core values of excellence, competence and caring. By working closely with qualified faculty, you can earn a degree that will enhance your ability to positively influence the profession of nursing and ultimately positively affect patient health outcomes. Learn More Healthcare Leadership The online concentration in Healthcare Leadership (HCL) provides a comprehensive exposure to the field of leadership with coursework in areas such as the healthcare environment, professionalism, leadership, business skills, and communication. The need for qualified healthcare administrators with leadership acumen and ethical fitness is significant, as these individuals are in great demand within the dynamic and complex healthcare landscape. Learn More Health Sciences The Health Sciences concentration in the College of Health Sciences combines both basic sciences and behavioral sciences into an applied discipline to promote healthy living. It provides students with the foundation, knowledge, and skills in the area of health promotion. The program offers elective hours to allow students to pursue interests among the various health professions, such as occupational therapy, physician assistant, physical therapy, pharmacy, dental, etc. Learn More Health Services The Bachelor of Professional Studies (BPS) with a Concentration in Health Services in the College of Professional and Liberal Studies has three core tenets and they are liberal studies, professionalism, and service. This curriculum will prepare online students for a wide range of healthcare positions in the service industry such as hospitals, health departments, health agencies, state and federal government agencies, research facilities, schools, and industry. This program is also for experienced healthcare professionals who desire to pursue an online education in order to further knowledge in healthcare management, service, and healthcare trends by taking courses in such areas as etiquette and professionalism, service, financial management, interpersonal skills, laws, policies, global and population health, as well as the social context of healthcare. Learn More Humanities English The Department of English in the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Memphis is proud to offer the online Bachelor of Arts in English. This degree requires a total of 120 credit hours, 60 hours of which are general education requirements, 27 hours of which must be taken in the major while the remaining hours are lower and upper division elective credits. Learn More History Online B.A. and M.A. program in History, courses taught by dedicated online instructors and tenure/tenure-track faculty, ranging from ancient to modern content, global in scope. Learn More Philosophy The Department of Philosophy offers an online BA in Philosophy with a concentration in Applied Ethics. This program focuses on ethical theories and ethical problem-solving in the context of a number of professional domains including medicine, law, and business. Learn More Liberal Studies Designed for those seeking the personal enrichment provided by progressive learning, the liberal studies degree encourages the development of intellectual skills necessary for lifelong learning—critical reading, scholarly writing, and the art of interpersonal communication. Learn More Social Science African and African American Studies The African and African American studies program offers students the opportunity to student Africana history and culture through an interdisciplinary lens. Students may focus their studies in the humanities, communications and fine arts, or social and behavioral sciences. Learn More Anthropology Anthropology majors develop cross-cultural communication, human relations, critical thinking, writing, analysis, evaluation, problem-solving, planning, and community outreach skills. It is an ideal field to prepare for jobs that require people skills, and understanding of multicultural and institutional dynamics. Learn More Bachelors of Professional Studies Child Development and Family Studies Concentration Child Development and Family Studies focuses on recognizing and enhancing important developmental milestones for children from birth through adolescence. Students will learn how to create effective learning environments to promote children's healthy development as well as assist parents in creating positive relationships and environments for the development of their children. Learn More Bachelors of Professional Studies Child Life Specialist Concentration The Bachelor of Professional Studies’ Child Life Specialist Concentration focuses on developing the skills needed to become a child life specialist. Child life specialists areprofessionals who work closely with children and their families in hospitals and other settings to help them cope with the challenges of hospitalization, illness, and disability. Learn More Bachelors of Professional Studies with a Concentration in Legal Studies The Legal Studies Program teaches theoretical and practical aspects of the field of law as a profession. The Program equips students to offer substantive legal support services to firms and agencies or to continue their education in law school. Learn More Communication The Department of Communication at the University of Memphis helps its undergraduate majors to understand more fully what communication is and how it can be applied effectively in a variety of contexts and settings. The program provides needed background and skills that help to make students successful in their chosen professional careers, as well as prepare them for advanced graduate study. Learn More Criminology and Criminal Justice The study of crime and justice is complex as researchers, practitioners, and policy makers tackle issues of policing strategies, corrections, capital punishment, violence, gangs, addiction, and international crime. The University of Memphis emphasizes research, scholarship, service and community outreach. Learn More Early Care & Learning The Bachelor of Professional Studies in Early Care and Learning develops students’ knowledge and skills in child development and learning, observation and assessment, pedagogy and research through classroom and field experiences. Students will be prepared for employment in a discipline working with children aged birth to 4 years old and their families, and may pursue graduate training that leads to careers in education, academia, research, health professions, or social work. Learn More Early Intervention The Bachelor of Professional Studies in Early Intervention (ages 0-3) focuses on recognizing the uniqueness of the provision of instruction and/or service coordination in the field of Part C the Federal IDEA legislation for early intervention (ages 0-3). Learn More International and Global Studies The International and Global Studies program provides students with the opportunity to learn about the world from an interdisciplinary perspective. In bringing together several traditional disciplines, including Political Science, Economics, Anthropology, Geography, and History,students gain a solid foundation of knowledge concerning international society, global economic systems, as well as myriad national and cultural perspectives on subjects ranging from global security and humanitarianism to transnational history and environmental sustainability. Learn More Political Science The B.A. Political Science online offering provides students with options and opportunity to complete their degree in a timely format. Courses such as but not limited to American Government, Political Thought, and International Relations are offered each semester including summer in rotation to provide flexibility and to ensure students stay on track to graduate. Learn More Psychology The Bachelor of Arts degree in Psychology is designed to achieve several broad objectives: to increase students' understanding of their cultural and natural worlds through greater familiarity with the humanities, natural sciences and social sciences; to enhance their skills in communication, quantitative analysis, and critical reasoning; and to prepare them to fulfill their roles as responsible members of their families, community and society. Learn More Social Work The Bachelor of Arts in Social Work prepares students for entrance into the profession of social work as generalist practitioners. Social work majors are required to be available for synchronous class sessions for some courses. The BA in social work requires an in-person field placement with 460 contact hours. Learn More Sociology The Department of Sociology in the College of Arts and Sciences at The University of Memphis is proud to offer the online Bachelor of Arts in Sociology. The degree requires a total of 120 credit hours. Learn More APPLY NOW Ready to apply to a UofM Global Program? Visit the Admissions Page to submit your application. Learn More >> About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/13/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.