Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Student Accessibility Services Students: Financial Assistance for Evaluations or Coaching Student Accessibility Services Students: Financial Assistance for Evaluations or Coaching SAS Financial Assistance for Learning Evaluations Testing or Coaching Limited funds are available to provide financial assistance to students with the cost of disability-related testing or academic coaching. These funds usually cover the “copay” or deductible for testing or for coaching based on the student’s health insurance rates. In certain instances, depending on need, SAS financial assistance may be available to pay a portion of the testing costs or the coaching themselves. Funds for learning evaluations and academic coaching are only available if the evaluation is needed to support course work at Brown University. In the application we ask students to explain briefly the need for the financial support from SAS. There is no minimum or maximum amount cutoff, but generally, the most common awards cover the “copay” or the deductible portion of the testing, or a small number of coaching sessions. The financial assistance amounts awarded may differ from the amounts requested depending on the availability of funds, the reasonableness of the requested amount, and the number of requests that are pending at the time of request. SAS can provide a convenience list of names of local evaluators who are qualified to complete neuropsych evaluations for students with learning disabilities and coaches who charge reduced rates, but students can see any coach or evaluator they choose, and students can schedule the evaluations during academic breaks. SAS financial assistance does not typically pay the providers directly, but provides students a portion of costs they paid for the testing or coaching. In order to receive the SAS financial assistant, the student should complete the applicationand have it approved by SAS prior to scheduling the testing or coaching. A receipt of payment to the provider is always required. Once that proof of payment is received and Brown paperwork is completed, SAS will credit the student the approved amount. Application for SAS Financial Assistance for Learning Evaluations and Coaching Home Getting Around Campus Registration Accommodations & Services Academic Accommodation Letter Notifications Graduate Student FAQ Faculty Report an Accessibility or Accommodation Concern Access or Accommodation Concerns Appeals Accessibility/Awareness Resources Emergency Planning Event Accessibility Financial Assistance for Evaluations or Coaching Library SAS Rooms Scheduling Support Groups & Events School of Professional Studies (SPS) Programs Print this Page Share this Page Student Accessibility Services Brown University Box Box P Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-9588 Fax 401-863-1444 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Web Links WebServices BrownSites Demo BrownSites Documentation Special Links Your Custom Links PAUR Media Relations Web Style Guide