Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine About Info for Residents & Fellows Research Forum Wellness Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Office of Graduate Medical Education (GME) Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Office of Graduate Medical Education (GME) About About GME Committee Staff, Contact and Verification Information Info for Residents & Fellows Info for Residents & Fellows Diversity & Inclusion The KU Experience Resident Stipends Foreign Medical Graduates Policies & Procedures Residency & Fellowship Programs Research Forum Research Forum Submission Requirements Scoring Criteria Guidelines and Resources Awards and Previous Winners Frequently Asked Questions Wellness Wellness Parent and Family Resources Food and Community Social and Cultural Activities Mental Health and Support Mindfulness in Medical Training Stress Management Resources Creativity as Wellness We provide organized educational support, guidance and supervision for professional and personal growth while our residents and fellows learn alongside leading experts in medicine. Explore our Programs Policies & Procedures The KU Experience Graduate Medical Education (GME) prepares physicians for practice in a medical specialty through residency and fellowship educational programs. The single most important responsibility of the GME is to provide residents and fellows in programs, accredited by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME), with organized educational support, guidance, and supervision for professional and personal growth while also providing appropriate patient care. GME Anti-Discrimination Statement The GME Office stands against the discrimination of a person's gender, gender expression, skin color, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, nationality, disability, or any other aspect of an individual's identity. We acknowledge that racist biases, systems, acts, processes, results, and other oppressive methods have been deeply rooted in medical education and healthcare. This is why we are prioritizing the implementation of policies, processes, and best practices that will prevent these historical mistakes from continuing here. Nothing short of an environment that is diverse, equitable, inclusive, safe, and welcoming for everyone is acceptable. It takes all of us. Learn more about Diversity & Inclusion Explore our Location As a resident or fellow at KU School of Medicine, you'll train alongside leading experts at the region’s premier academic medical center, located in Kansas City, Kansas. State-of-the-art facilities and exceptional clinical care make The University of Kansas Health System a leader in many specialties and our physician faculty are actively engaged in groundbreaking clinical research. Training in Kansas City KU School of Medicine Office of Graduate Medical Education University of Kansas Medical Center 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Delp Pavilion, 1117 Mailstop 1060 Kansas City, KS 66160 913-945-6810 Fax: 913-588-0240 GME Twitter GME Instagram Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.