arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Campus Maps Find your way around Dartmouth’s 269-acre main campus and beyond. Image Dartmouth Maps Mobile map: Navigate Dartmouth with this comprehensive, searchable map, optimized for use on internet-enabled mobile devices. Printable map: (1.3 MB PDF file, optimized for 11“x17” print size) Google Maps: Dartmouth and the Upper Valley Visit Dartmouth Visiting campus: events, tours, lodging, dining, and more Virtual visit: photo tours of Dartmouth created by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions Image The Dartmouth Campus Map is loading Directions to Dartmouth Driving Directions From the Boston area (about 2.5 hours) Take I-93 north to I-89 north at Concord, N.H. Get off I-89 at Exit 18 in Lebanon, NH onto Route 120. Bear right off the exit, heading north on Rt.120 into Hanover. 4.1 miles from the exit, Rt. 120 forks at a traffic light. Bear right at the fork, following Rt. 120 one-half mile on South Park Street to the second traffic light. Turn left at the light, onto East Wheelock Street. Follow East Wheelock for two-tenths of a mile. You will come to the Hopkins Center (left) and the Dartmouth Green (right). From Burlington, Vt. (about 1.5 hours) Take I-89 south to I-91 north in White River Junction, Vt. Follow I-91 N to exit 13, Norwich, Vt. Bear right off the exit, across the Ledyard Bridge spanning the Connecticut River. Continue up the hill (West Wheelock Street) to the top of the hill and to the traffic light in the center of town, nine-tenths of a mile from the interstate exit. On your left at the light is the Dartmouth Green; to your right is the Hanover Inn. From New York (about 5 hours), southern New England and points south Take I-91 north to exit 13 at Norwich, Vt. Bear right off the exit, across the Ledyard Bridge spanning the Connecticut River. Continue up the hill (West Wheelock Street) to the top of the hill and to the traffic light in the center of town, nine-tenths of a mile from the interstate exit. On your left at the light is the Dartmouth Green; to your right is the Hanover Inn. Airports Lebanon Airport: Lebanon, N.H. (LEB) About 5 miles, or 15 minutes driving time, from campus Manchester-Boston Regional Airport: Manchester, N.H. (MHT) About 75 miles, or 1.5 hours driving time, from campus Logan International Airport: Boston, Mass. (BOS) About 120 miles, or 2.5 hours driving time, from campus Bradley International Airport: Hartford, Ct. (BDL) About 150 miles, or 2.5 hours driving time, from campus Train Amtrak's “Vermonter” service, connecting Northern New England with New York City and Washington DC, arrives daily in White River Junction, Vt. About 5 miles, ten minutes driving time, from campus. Bus Service Dartmouth Coach offers daily service between the Dartmouth campus and Boston's South Station and Logan Airport as well as the Yale Club in New York, adjacent to Grand Central Station. Greyhound serves White River Junction, Vt. About 5 miles, ten minutes driving time, from campus. Advance Transit serves the Upper Valley region of New Hampshire and Vermont. Rides are free on all Advance Transit bus routes. Dartmouth Business Travel Resources for those traveling on Dartmouth business—including bus and train schedules, rental car programs, airport information, and sedan services—can be found through the Controller’s Office Transportation Options site. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube