Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of World Languages and Literatures About Programs Languages People Study Abroad Scholarships Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Events Student Resources Newsletter Contact Us! Follow Us Online Facebook Home Department of World Languages and Literatures Department of World Languages and Literatures Gazette Newsletter World Languages and Literatures Gazette SPRING 2021 — Due to the COVID-19 (coronavirus) pandemic, the University of Memphis has moved nearly entirely to remote (online) or hybrid classes for the start of Spring semester. All in-person meetings have also been canceled or moved online. All in-person meetings have also been canceled or moved online. The Gazette will be published periodically during the semester (instead of weekly). Any updates will be posted on http://memphis.edu/wll as information becomes available. For more information about the university's response, please visit these pages: Coronavirus updates, Campus Communications, UM Tech's Keep Learning page, and Resources for Students (helpline, application for emergency funds, etc.). The Department of World Languages and Literatures regularly publishes a department Gazette during the fall and spring semester. The Gazette appears weekly or bi-weekly and is sent by email to all faculty, staff, graduate students, and undergraduate majors in the department, as well as to anyone at the university or in the community interested in knowing what is going on in the department. We include information about faculty and student accomplishments, department events, and other activities of interest to World Language faculty and students. If you would like to be added to our email distribution list, simply email wll@memphis.edu with the subject line "Join Gazette." We will be more than happy to add you to the list! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/26/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.