Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Show/Hide Home People Undergraduate Graduate Courses Research & Projects Events News About Us Archaeology at Brown The Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World promotes the investigation, understanding, and enjoyment of the archaeology and art of the ancient Mediterranean, Egypt, and the Near East. We work in close collaboration with our colleagues in other programs on campus, particularly those in Anthropology whose research is focused on the material remains of the Americas. READ MORE International Fieldwork Faculty at Brown University lead archaeological fieldwork around the world, including Egypt, France, Greece, Italy, Jordan, Mexico, Sudan, Turkey, West Indies, and in Rhode Island. READ MORE Promoting Archaeology The Joukowsky Institute's mandate is to promote archaeological research, fieldwork, teaching, and public outreach, with the Institute’s associated faculty, students, staff, and facilities serving as a hub for this activity. READ MORE Visual and Material Culture Featuring a mix of contemporary and ancient objects in a range of media, the exhibits in Rhode Island Hall are intended to present a visual and multi-dimensional view of the issues facing the field of archaeology today. READ MORE An Interdisciplinary Community The goal of the Institute is to foster an interdisciplinary community of interest in the archaeology of the ancient world, and in the discipline of archaeology more generally. READ MORE A Commitment to Engaged Scholarship The Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology is committed to engaging with issues of social justice and heritage in our teaching, public programs, and research. READ MORE The Virtual Vault Our goal is to share our research and collections beyond the boundaries of Brown University's campus, which inspired our Virtual Vault series highlighting objects from our collection. READ MORE Brown and Providence Brown's commitment to engaged scholarship begins with our own community, through active archaeological excavation, programs in Providence Public Schools, public events, and gathering resources relevant to our Rhode Island community. READ MORE News Congratulations to the Class of 2022! Sunday May 29, 2022 Spring/Summer '22 Issue of Joukowsky Institute Newsletter Now Online Wednesday May 25, 2022 The Stories Objects Tell (Curated by Kristen Marchetti '22) Monday March 14, 2022 Martha Sharp Joukowsky (1936-2022) Monday January 10, 2022 Position Announcement: Postdoctoral Fellowship in Archaeology and the Ancient World Thursday November 18, 2021 View All Featured Project Koutroulou Magoula Archaeology and Archaeological Ethnography Project, Greece Koutroulou Magoula is a multi-period archaeological site in central Greece with the main period of occupation around 6000 BCE (Middle Neolithic period). There are also burials dating to the Bronze Age (1500 BCE), and the Medieval period (c. 1200 CE). It is a finds-rich site, with buildings surviving to more than 1 m. in height, pottery, lithics, animal bones, and an impressive corpus of more than 350 clay figurines. View All Events There are no events available. Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Brown University Box 1837 Rhode Island Hall, 60 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3188 Fax: 401-863-9423 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat