Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Fee-based programs Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Getting started Eligibility Fee-based programs Eligibility Home Eligibility Fee-based programs Non-matriculated students International students The University offers both state supported and fee-based degree programs. Students who are enrolled in most fee-based programs will use a different process to register for classes and pay for their courses than students in state supported programs. When interacting with counselors in the Financial Aid office it is helpful to identify yourself as a student who is enrolled in a fee-based program. This will allow our staff to provide you with information specific to your situation; prevent interruptions of aid disbursement; and to provide you with information about the right amount of aid available. Fee-based courses Students enrolled in state funded programs can choose to take fee-based courses through UW Professional & Continuing Education (UWPCE). You will need to register and pay for your course through UWPCE. You will pay a separate fee for UWPCE course and the course will not be counted as part of your credits when determining your quarterly state tuition amount. Some aid programs that are offered to state supported program students can apply to UWPCE courses while others cannot. Please see a Financial Aid Counselor if you have questions about the type of aid you were awarded as it relates to you taking a fee-based course. Registration UW Professional & Continuing Education (UWPCE) provides registration and accounting support to many fee-based programs. Students should check with their program office to determine the level of involvement, if at all, that UWPCE may have with these processes. UWPCE registration and accounting processes are not automatically integrated into the regular UW systems. You should be aware of the following processes that may impact you: Students whose program receives both registration and/or accounting support from UWPCE will register for their classes through MyUW. Students can view their account balance on MyUW and make their payments through a dedicated UWPCE payment portal accessed via MyUW. Program and course fees As a fee-based program student you do not pay tuition. You pay either a program fee (flat fee per quarter) or course fees (per credit charge per quarter). Each fee-based program has its own fee structure. This sometimes makes it difficult to accurately assess your exact fees. If we underestimate your fees due to credit differences, you have the option to submit a Revision Request for Additional Expenses documenting the additional fees. Please be aware that in most cases we are only able to increase student loan funds to cover the difference. Awarding aid We assume full-time enrollment when awarding aid unless your program was set up as a part-time program, in which case we assume half-time enrollment. If you are in a part-time program but enroll for greater than half-time, you may request a review of your costs based on the additional expenses from course fees by completing a Revision Request for Additional Expenses. There are both undergraduate and graduate fee-based programs. Fee-based students receive consideration for most of the same types of financial aid funds as state supported students. Types of aid As you pay fees and not tuition, types of aid that are not available to fee based students include: Tuition Exemptions (any kind) University Grants Typically types of aid that are available to fee based students include: Federal grants State grants Scholarships Work Study Loans Fee payments Your balance due is found under Accounts in MyUW. Fee-based degree students are shown two separate balances: You owe includes fees such as U-PASS and ISHIP, which are paid directly to UW Student Fiscal Services (SFS) by clicking the “Make payment” button. You owe PCE-Continuum College includes all course and program-related fees, which are paid to PCE/Continuum College by clicking the “Make payment to PCE” button. You are responsible for paying any balance due after your aid has been disbursed. The payment deadline is the third Friday of the quarter. Disbursement of aid In order to have financial aid funds disburse, you must be registered for the number of credits your aid is set up for, you must not have any financial aid holds, and if you accepted student loans, you must sign all corresponding promissory notes. If your financial aid award is set up at least two business days prior to the start of the quarter, your aid will be reflected on the balance shown on MyUW. If your aid is available to disburse, your financial aid funds will disburse to your account and apply to your charges. Any residual aid after charges are paid will be made available to you. You can sign up for direct deposit so your residual funds will directly deposit into your personal bank account, or Student Fiscal Services will mail a check to you on or after the first day of the quarter. If you do not have enough aid to cover your full balance, you are responsible for paying the remainder. If you feel your balance does not accurately reflect the aid you were expecting, please check with our office so that we may provide options or investigate further. Non-eligible programs Not all programs are aid eligible. Students enrolled in these non-eligible programs are not able to benefit from UW financial aid. If you are enrolled in a non-eligible program and feel you need financial assistance to complete your degree you may want to investigate private loans. Program offices can communicate with our office to see if a new program is aid eligible. Concurrent majors If you are concurrently enrolled (double major) in a fee-based program and a state supported program it is often difficult to award you correctly. Awarding aid in these cases is a manual process so you will want to contact our office to make sure you are receiving the aid you are entitled to. Hybrid programs There are ‘hybrid’ programs where students go from self-sustaining to state supported, or the reverse. You will need to be aware of when you are paying tuition and when you are paying fees to determine how to register and pay. Home Eligibility Fee-based programs Non-matriculated students International students Resources Applying for Financial Aid Parent Plus Loan New Borrowers of Federal Student Loans Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA