Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information Harvard University-wide COVID-19 Testing Dashboard Weekly COVID-19 Tests & Cases Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs The graphs and tables below show weekly trends in University-wide tests and new positive cases since June 1, 2020. In academic year 2020-21, only a limited number of students, faculty, staff, and other affiliates were authorized to be on campus and to participate in Harvard’s COVID-19 testing program; the majority of Harvard’s community members worked and learned remotely during that time. In academic year 2021-22, the University welcomed many more community members back to campus to resume in-person academic and work activities, and to participate in Harvard’s COVID-19 testing program.1 Beginning in May 2022, Harvard shifted to optional screening for all on-campus affiliates who elect to be tested, or are showing symptoms of COVID-19. In conjunction with student residential populations leaving campus for summer recess, it is anticipated that a majority of affiliates will opt for non-scheduled testing. The data below reflects results of the University’s COVID-19 testing program; it is not combined with other testing sources or providers. The testing and case data in the graphs and tables below is updated weekly. For daily updates on cumulative tests, cases, and quarantine and isolation data, see the results dashboard. Total Tests Conducted by Week See notes below. Total New Positive Cases by Week See notes below. Footnotes: Individuals authorized to participate in Harvard’s COVID-19 screening include students, faculty, staff, and other affiliates authorized to be on campus as well as any primarily remote affiliates who HUHS advises to come on campus to test. “Total tests” is cumulative and includes repeat tests that are required of students, faculty, staff, and other affiliates. “Graduate Students” and “Undergraduate Students” includes students who are eligible to participate in Harvard’s testing program; this includes students living in on-campus housing, those working in labs, and those authorized to be on campus for an academic or work purpose. “Faculty, Staff, and Other Affiliates” includes faculty, academic and non-academic staff, and others (such as contractors) who are eligible to participate in Harvard’s testing program; this includes faculty or staff working on campus, living on campus, or otherwise authorized to be on campus. Notes: Cumulative data reflects Harvard’s initiation of protocols in early June 2020 for regular screening through COVID-19 testing in conjunction with the re-opening of science laboratory facilities under the Commonwealth of Massachusetts’ phased re-opening plan. As the University’s data reflects results of mandatory screening for individuals who are authorized to be on Harvard’s campus. Harvard’s data does not include positive test results that were conducted outside of the University’s testing program (i.e. at local pharmacies and community test sites) and reported to us. Data are presented according to the date tests are administered. Counts for most recent dates may be incomplete, but will be updated as results are reported. The tables and graphs are informational only and are not intended to be used as public health guidance. Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube