COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Sociology, Major MajorSociology All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Sociology A Bachelor of Arts (BA) in sociology from Wichita State provides insight into society and social behavior through the study of social structures, relationships, groups, organizations and more. At WSU, students can specialize in: social inequality and social problems, families and intimate relationships across the life course, medical sociology, urban life and globalization, and evidence-based practices. These specializations make it a widely applicable degree on its own or ideal for double majoring with disciplines such as pre-law, pre-med, public health, criminal justice, business / marketing, psychology and education. Sociological skills are transferable to a wide variety of industries, and students at WSU can tailor their curriculum to fit their specific goals as they prepare for employment or further graduate or professional studies. Sociology is also offered as part of the WSU at McConnell program. Learn how sociology is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum To complete the sociology major, you'll take 30 credit hours of sociology courses including 15 credit hours of core courses and 15 additional hours of electives based on your interests and career goals. Courses taken for your sociology degree can also count toward the Tilford Diversity Studies certificate. View the curriculum Careers A sociology degree from Wichita State will connect you with opportunities for successful careers in a broad range of settings, from research, social services and business to education, policy and health care. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Sociology (Minor) Marketing Aging Studies Criminal Justice Psychology Social Work 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©