Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU English (B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT English majors at Clemson hone their ability to think critically and write skillfully through the study of literature and texts of all genres and periods in both print and new media. You will deepen your understanding of the history of the language as you follow your own interests through a curriculum that can bring together Shakespeare’s plays with contemporary cinema, American slave narratives with digital methods of literary editing, the 19th-century realist novel with postcolonial poetry and more. Your courses will vary from discussion seminars devoted to close literary analysis and scholarly research to creative writing workshops in fiction, poetry and other genres to collaborative work on editing and publication projects. Earning a Bachelor of Arts degree, you will engage in the fundamental inquiries of humanities study: What is humanity? How do I live a good life? What is justice and the right? At the same time, you will develop practical skills in writing, communication and argument that are relevant to a wide range of 21st-century careers, including publishing, education, media, marketing, law and medicine. FAST FACTS English majors develop a strong basis in writing and analytical reading, history, literature and criticism. Our faculty are mentors and guides while providing a liberal arts education with the resources of a premier research university. Smaller classes provide an intimate environment where students feel free to engage in discussion. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY The English major is flexible and offers students courses in three core subjects: literature, writing and publication studies, and literary theory and cultural studies. Courses for our majors typically take the form of small seminar-style discussions, nearly all of them limited to 20 students. Students work closely with our faculty, who also serve as our major's academic advisers. Outside the classroom, our students frequently supplement their studies by writing for campus literary magazines or by attending and helping to organize public lectures and readings, such as the annual Clemson Literary Festival. Intensive reading, writing and discussion cultivate students’ powers of thinking both critically and creatively. English majors acquire knowledge of culture and history as well as skills in lucid and persuasive communication that prepare them for bold engagement and endeavor in the world. Curriculum English, B.A. Popular Minors Business Administration Communication Studies Film Studies Modern Languages (Spanish) Psychology Similar Majors Communication (B.A.) History (B.A.) Philosophy (B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM English majors at Clemson thrive inside and outside the classroom. You’ll find countless ways to connect with other students and polish your newly acquired skills. Lit Fest Since 2008, the Literary Festival brings renowned authors to town each April. Planned and organized by students, the festival brings the community together for poetry and fiction readings, discussions, social events and an open mic night. Learn More » Tiger Media Clemson has six campus media organization, including The Tiger, a student newspaper, and The Chronicle, a student literary and variety magazine.Learn More » Writing Lab Need help with a paper? Head to the Writing Lab where peer tutors offer writers from all majors opportunities to discuss issues related to academic writing, from generating a topic and thesis to organizing a draft and using citations.Learn More » EMO The Clemson English Majors Organization offers students and faculty a chance to interact outside of the classroom. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS The Chronicle WSBF-FM (88.1 FM) Creative Inquiry AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Associate Nutter McClennan & Fish PA Associate Lowenstein Sandler LLP Media Analyst Fidelity Investments Program Coordinator American Academy of Arts and Sciences Writer/Producer Decider RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES JD University of California, Berkeley JD Duke University Ph.D. English Cornell University Ph.D. English University of Michigan Ph.D. Rhetoric and Composition University of South Florida COMMON CAREER AREAS Writing and Editing Creative Writing Journalism Technical Writing Freelance Writing Education Teaching Student Affairs Academic Advising Information and Library Science Tutoring English as a Second Language (ESL) Publishing Editing Production Publicity Advertising Creative Services Account Management Media Public Relations Account Coordination Writing and Editing Media Relations Business Management Marketing Human Resources Law Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jessica Garcia Recruiter jgarci6@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To English (B.A.) Communication (B.A.) History (B.A.) Philosophy (B.A.)