SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Press Releases Find An Article Enter search and SUBMIT Select a year Year 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 Select article type News Insights CoxToday Faculty Research Consumer Marketing Math: Even the Numerate are “Off by 100%” Tue, Mar 1, 2022 In new research, Marketing Professors Matthew Fisher and Milica Mormann of SMU Cox shed light on a surprising persistent mistake consumers make that can have important consequences. The “off-by-100%” bias the authors observe impacts purchase decisions, with implications for every-day shopping decisions and even on trading on platforms like Robinhood and E-Trade. Learn More Post-COVID Recovery of Arts Organization Prediction Models Tue, Feb 22, 2022 Professor Glenn Voss, Professor Emeritus of Marketing and Research Director at SMU DataArts, and Karthik Kannan, Assistant Professor of IT and Operations Management and Donna Wilhelm Research Fellow at SMU DataArts, recently presented a webinar on prediction models for post-COVID recovery of arts organizations. Learn More ClearAdmit Podcast Highlights the Cox School's Big Picture Approach Thu, Feb 10, 2022 Host Graham Richmond welcomed Lisa Tran and Jason Rife from SMU Cox to explore the symbiotic relationship between corporate relationships, admissions and career services that propels MBA graduates’ success. Learn More Professor Ulrike Schultze Examines How Technology Affects Organizations Tue, Feb 1, 2022 Who are we becoming — as individuals and as members of society — the more we engage in technology-mediated spaces that are increasingly populated by robots and AI? These are the kinds of questions that have fascinated Ulrike Schultze, a professor in information technology and operations management (ITOM) at SMU Cox, for years. Learn More SMU Cox Professor Marcus Butts Researches Work-Life Balance Wed, Jan 12, 2022 SMU Cox Associate Professor Marcus Butts researches topics including workday social media usage and inter-team dynamics. Learn More Making Customers Pay Up May Backfire: Beware of Unintended Congestion Tue, Nov 2, 2021 In new research by ITOM Professor Sreekumar Bhaskaran of SMU Cox and co-authors, they re-think the congestion challenge and offer a new perspective about the traditional approaches of using the levers of price and quality. Rather than solely using higher prices to reduce traffic, the authors offer more nuance with the idea of “consumption control.” Learn More SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Fri, Oct 1, 2021 Delivering on the promise of partnership with the city it calls home, SMU is launching a $1.5 billion fundraising campaign focused on the opportunities created through scholarships, meaningful research and teaching and community. Learn More Supply Chain Players’ Generosity Pays Off Amidst Climate Risk Fri, Oct 1, 2021 Professor Ruidi Huang of SMU Cox and his coauthors show how firms react to natural disasters and what actions can help supply chains stay resilient. Learn More Southwestern Graduate School of Banking Foundation Announces New Leadership Wed, Sep 1, 2021 Jeff Schmid joins the Southwestern Graduate School of Banking (SWGSB) Foundation, headquartered at SMU’s Cox School of Business, as president and CEO effective Sept. 1. Schmid’s move comes as current President and CEO S. Scott MacDonald, Ph.D., retires from the position after 24 years of service. Learn More New Approach to Identifying Bellwether Firms: How They Influence the Future Wed, Sep 1, 2021 In new research, Accounting Professor Sean Wang of SMU Cox and his co-authors identify a group of firms that move in tandem with the VIX and find that these firms essentially act as bellwether firms, microcosms of the market itself. Learn More Re-thinking Physical Spaces: Co-Location Helps Solve a Growing Mental Health Crisis and Workplace Issues Post-Pandemic Tue, Jul 27, 2021 In new research by ITOM Professor Vishal Ahuja of SMU Cox and co-authors Alvarez and Staats, they show that proximity of physical spaces, that they refer to as co-location, matters. Learn More Dallas Startup Week | August 1 - 5, 2021 Tue, Jul 6, 2021 Dallas Startup Week brings together entrepreneurs and change-makers for a week-long experience, described as the largest entrepreneurial event in North Texas, to exchange ideas, collaborate, and grow alongside the 10th largest startup ecosystem in the US. This year, Dallas Startup Week will be hosted in person at SMU Cox School of Business and Online through Brushfire. Click to learn more and register. Learn More Financing Crypto Firm’s Projects: An Unlimited Token Offering? Tue, Jun 15, 2021 With mature crypto projects in short supply, new research from Cox ITOM Assistant Professor Rowena Gan sheds light on the optimal design of “uncapped” initial coin offerings. Learn More Emissions Disclosures by U.S. Manufacturers Shows Reductions: The Reasons Why Surprise Tue, Apr 13, 2021 This study is one of the first to quantify the effects of disclosing GHG emissions when the bulk of emitters transition from no disclosure to public disclosure. Learn More SMU Cox Dallas 100™ Names Clavis Capital Partners Area’s Fastest Growing Entrepreneurial Business Thu, Feb 18, 2021 The event marks the Caruth Institute’s 30th Dallas 100 awards ceremony. It was live-streamed this year because of COVID-19. The online presentation was facilitated by business-to-business media provider MarketScale, one of this year’s Dallas 100 honorees. Learn More COVID-19 Pandemic Shines Spotlight on Coworker Compassion and Reforms Tue, Jan 26, 2021 SMU Cox management and organizations associate professor Marcus Butts and his co-authors discover that coworkers are displaying more concern for and less mistreatment of ill colleagues rather than self-interested behavior in this time of COVID-19. Learn More Spatial Landscape Helps Determine Loyalty Programs’ Success Tue, Jan 5, 2021 Starting in the airline industry in the 1980s, loyalty programs have been adopted in businesses such as hotels, casinos, retailers, grocery stores, and restaurants. In novel research, Marketing Professor Wayne Taylor of SMU Cox and co-author Brett Hollenbeck analyze the competitive “spatial” landscape surrounding the customer and identify actionable marketing insights. Learn More SMU Cox Public Firms a Fraction of Borrowers from Government Stimulus During Pandemic Fri, Dec 18, 2020 New research by SMU Cox finance professor Anna Cororaton and Samuel Rosen of Temple University sheds light on which public firms applied for and received stimulus funds, in one of the first empirical studies of the unprecedented fiscal programs to help keep American businesses afloat during the pandemic. Learn More SMU Cox’s Vishal Ahuja Improves Patient Care Fri, Dec 18, 2020 An assistant professor of information technology and operations management (ITOM) at SMU Cox and an adjunct professor of clinical sciences at UT Southwestern Medical Center, Ahuja leans on his years of experience in the corporate world to apply principles of operations management and data analytics to local healthcare data and improve patient outcomes and efficiency of care. Learn More National Security Law Deters Foreign Investment in the U.S. Wed, Dec 16, 2020 SMU Cox Finance Professor Darius Miller examines the effects of the Foreign Investment and National Security Act on shareholder wealth and the U.S. economy. Learn More Brierley Institute Research Analyzes The Pandemic’s Effect On Retail, Travel And Entertainment Tue, Dec 15, 2020 “Our biggest challenge is to spread the word from what we’re learning beyond the classroom to reach today’s marketers.” Learn More Visual Finance 101: Red Color Influences Investor Behavior Wed, Dec 9, 2020 New research by SMU Cox marketing professor Milica Mormann and coauthors Bazley and Cronqvist reveals how the visual presentation of financial information impacts important financial decisions. Learn More SMU Cox’s Newest Professor Zhen Zhang Goes Beyond the Numbers Thu, Nov 12, 2020 Meet professor Zhen Zhang, SMU Cox School of Business’ newest faculty addition. Zhang brings his substantive expertise in leadership and analytical methods to the School. Learn More SMU Cox Dallas 100 Announces 100 Fastest Growing, Privately Held Companies in Dallas Area Tue, Oct 27, 2020 The SMU Cox Caruth Institute for Entrepreneurship has released the names of the entrepreneurial businesses that made it into this year’s coveted list of Dallas 100 companies. Learn More Who Fared Better or Worse After Wright Amendment Repeal? Deciphering Dallas’ Southwest Airlines Network Changes Wed, Oct 21, 2020 Dallas Love Field and Southwest airline passengers received multiple boons when the Wright Amendment was repealed in late 2014. There were more nonstop flights and destinations, more gates at Love Field and reduced fares. Media stories reported that this policy reversal was a positive development. However, in new research, ITOM Professor Vishal Ahuja of SMU Cox and co-authors show that the repeal had some unintended consequences. Learn More SMU Cox Extends GMAT/GRE Test-Optional Policy Wed, Sep 2, 2020 SMU Cox will continue to streamline application requirements, most notably its GMAT/GRE test-optional policy, for all SMU Cox graduate programs through August 2021. Learn More Why Most Startups Fail — and the Skills Needed for Their Success Tue, Jul 21, 2020 Bhaskaran has studied what makes startups successful, with an emphasis on how entrepreneurs find a balance between their businesses’ short-term survival and their long-term profitability. It’s a trade-off at the heart of a research paper he co-authored in 2019 entitled, “Sequential Product Development and Introduction by Cash-Constrained Start-Ups.” We spoke with him about why most startups fail and the skills needed to facilitate their success. Learn More The Benefits of Telemedicine as a Form of Continuity of Care Wed, Jul 8, 2020 Vishal Ahuja's empirical study examined the impact of maintaining continuity of care in a primary care setting. For Ahuja, the research was personal, and a goal was set: Capture the value. Learn More The Scientific Pros and Cons of Virtual Meetings — and How They Affect Business Wed, Jun 17, 2020 The COVID-19 stay-at-home orders have created a dependence on the use of videoconference platforms and telepresence. We spoke to Professor Amit Basu, who conducted an empirical study on the effectiveness of such technologies, for his insights. Learn More SMU Cox Announces New MBA Program: Cox MBA Direct Wed, May 6, 2020 The Cox School of Business announced today the Cox MBA Direct, a new path toward earning a Master of Business Administration (MBA) for recent college graduates with less than two years of post-degree work experience, including Class of 2020 graduates completing their undergraduate degrees this month. The new Cox MBA Direct program will allow recent college graduates who are working full-time to begin MBA studies online upon completion of their undergraduate degree. It will also prepare them to secure MBA-level employment by obtaining needed work experience as they complete their MBA degree. Learn More Raynelle “Raye” Anwukah honored by Poets&Quants among Best & Brightest 2020 MBAs Tue, May 5, 2020 Congratulations, Raynelle “Raye” Anwukah, Cox Full-Time MBA Class of 2020, for being recognized among the 2020 Best & Brightest MBAs by Poets&Quants. “In her nearly two years in the SMU Cox Full-Time MBA program, Raynelle “Raye” Anwukah has shown incredible resiliency, leadership, and growth . . . Raye has also exemplified extraordinary leadership skills. She is a merit scholar, a Forté fellow and an officer in five Cox graduate clubs.” Learn More Maintaining Continuity in Challenging Times Mon, Apr 13, 2020 In his paper “An Empirical Study of the Effectiveness of Telepresence as a Business Meeting Mode,” Information Technology and Management Journal, 2016, Professor Amit Basu reported on a large-scale empirical study of the use of various virtual meeting technologies in business meetings. Learn More SMU Cox Announces GMAT/GRE Waivers and Extended Application Deadline Thu, Apr 2, 2020 SMU Cox Graduate Admissions waives GMAT, GRE, TOEFL, & Executive Assessment requirements until September 2020. Graduate Admissions will also consider applicants for Fall 2020 until August 2, 2020. Learn More Cox School Announces 2020 Alumni Honorees Thu, Mar 5, 2020 The SMU Cox School of Business will honor four alumni at its annual Distinguished Alumni and Outstanding Young Alumni Awards Luncheon on Friday, May 1. This year’s Distinguished Alumni Awards honorees will be Kelly H. Compton, BBA ’79 and William (Bill) A. Hall, BBA ’67 and MBA ‘68. The 2020 Outstanding Young Alumni honors will go to Mark A. Lau, BBA ’06 and Courtney N. Naudo, BBA ’01. Learn More Perkins, Cox Offer Sequenced Graduate Degree Programs Wed, Mar 4, 2020 Perkins School of Theology and Cox School of Business announce the creation of cooperative, sequenced degree programs between the two Southern Methodist University graduate schools. Learn More Maguire Energy Institute Honors Two Prominent Energy Leaders Wed, Feb 19, 2020 The Maguire Energy Institute at SMU Cox School of Business will present Kenneth Hersh, president and chief executive officer of George W. Bush Presidential Center, with the L. Frank Pitts Energy Leadership Award at a luncheon ceremony Friday, February 21, on the SMU campus. Learn More Larger Banks Lead to Less Economic Mobility Fri, Jan 31, 2020 Over the last several decades, consolidation in the banking industry has created larger banks, according to new research by SMU Cox Finance Professor Erik Mayer, leading to some negative effects for low-income households. Learn More Accounting in the Age of Knowledge: Making Intangibles Tangible Wed, Dec 18, 2019 In ambitious research, SMU Cox Accounting Professor Sean Wang and his co-authors develop a new way to measure intangible assets that has been lacking for decades. Learn More Digital Piracy in the Age of Knowledge: Innovation the Key Tue, Dec 10, 2019 In a new study, strategy professors Julian Kolev and Wendy Bradley analyze the link between digital piracy and innovation for technology firms in the software business. Learn More Farmers Branch-based Ontronics Takes Top Entrepreneurial Spot in Dallas Fri, Nov 22, 2019 The Dallas 100, the Caruth Institute’s annual celebration of the entrepreneurial spirit, announced the fastest-growing, privately-held companies in rank order from No. 100 to No. 1 before a crowd of nearly 1,000 people at the Omni Hotel Thursday in downtown Dallas. Learn More In Broad Daylight: Where the Smart Money Shorts Stocks Mon, Nov 4, 2019 Mystery and speculation shrouds short sellers, also known as the “smart money.” Who are they? Where do they trade and why? In new research, Finance Professor Mehrdad Samadi of SMU Cox and co-authors provide the first evidence of short sellers, or informed traders, trading venue of choice. Learn More Internet Learning: Are We Outsourcing Our Memory? Tue, Oct 1, 2019 Vast amounts of knowledge are at our fingertips owing to the Internet. As we continually immerse ourselves in the online world of information, what are the cognitive effects of it? This fundamental question is on the mind of Marketing Professor Matthew Fisher of SMU Cox in new research about Internet learning and its consequences. According to Fisher, little research about the subject has occurred to date in understanding this phenomenon. Learn More Future of Online Markets: Increasing Mobile Channel Differs From PC Channel Tue, Sep 3, 2019 The mobile channel is poised to be the future of online markets, according to ITOM Professor Tom Tan of SMU Cox. And, retail operations managers should not blindly treat the mobile channel like the conventional PC channel. In a working paper, Tan and co-author Nitish Jain make important contributions to innovative retail practices and operational decisions. Learn More Cross-border Investing: Increasingly Important for Start-Ups and Growth Wed, Jul 24, 2019 Cross-border venture capital investments play an important role in the scaling up of high growth companies, according to Strategy Professor Wendy Bradley. Foreign capital, expertise, and the networks that accompany cross-border investments are welcome by start-up ventures. However, a concern is that they transfer the majority of economic activity to the investor country. In new research, Bradley of SMU Cox and her co-authors examine cross-border venture capital (VC) investments and its implications for public policy. “There is a need for cross-border investments and partnerships for the advancement of science and economic growth,” says Bradley. Learn More Informed Investors Crucial for Shareholder Democracy Thu, Jun 27, 2019 Firms with strong corporate governance are like democracies, according to Finance Professor Nickolay Gantchev. Through their proposals and votes, shareholders can determine the broad direction of a company. In new research, Nickolay Gantchev of SMU Cox and Mariassunta Giannetti study the effectiveness of this low-cost form of shareholder activism. “Like a democracy, if you have more informed shareholders, when they vote, they can figure out which are good proposals, and prevent the bad ones from passing,” says Gantchev. Learn More Three High Profile Energy Industry Leaders Honored at SMU Cox Tue, Apr 9, 2019 The Maguire Energy Institute at SMU Cox School of Business presented Tim Leach, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Concho Resources Inc., with the L. Frank Pitts Energy Leadership Award at a sold-out luncheon ceremony on Tuesday, April 9 on the SMU campus. At the same event, two iconic oil industry entrepreneurs and longtime supporters of SMU, Bobby B. Lyle and Cary M. Maguire, were honored with the Maguire Energy Institute Pioneer Award. Learn More SMU Cox Latino Leadership Initiative Showcased at Hispanic Leadership Summit Wed, Jan 30, 2019 LLI Director Shares Perspectives on Higher Education’s role in Advancing Latinos Learn More Preparing Tomorrow’s Marketing Students Begins with Well-Prepared Educators Wed, Jan 30, 2019 The rapidly changing field of customer engagement — how marketers attract long term customer brand loyalty — was the focus of the third annual Professors Institute at SMU Cox. The school’s Brierley Institute for Customer Engagement hosted the event in January, in partnership with Marketing EDGE, a national nonprofit with a track record of connecting students, academics and professionals to the resources they need to stay ahead. Learn More How to Navigate Today’s Multi-Teaming Organization Mon, Jan 28, 2019 Learn More Latest Hart Gift Advances Technology, Innovation & Entrepreneurship at SMU Fri, Jan 25, 2019 Learn More SMU Cox Launches New Online MBA Thu, Dec 13, 2018 Learn More Ambiguous Texas Shoplifting Laws May Be Applied Inconsistently By Police Fri, Dec 7, 2018 For more than three years, ambiguous wording in the Texas Penal Code led to inconsistent treatment of black and white arrestees for low-value shoplifting, according to a new study by a professor at Southern Methodist University. Learn More Shoppers Changed Up Retail Store Choice in Hard Times Mon, Dec 3, 2018 SMU Cox Marketing Professor Chaoqun Chen analyzes how consumers shop around various retail formats and how their behavior changed during the Great Recession. Her findings uncover truths about how consumers from different income levels adjusted to a new normal in their weekly treks. Learn More Premier Marketing Experts Opine about Engaging Customers in a World of Disruption Thu, Nov 29, 2018 How do businesses use Customer Engagement as a competitive tool to combat disruption? A panel of marketing experts pondered that question at a recent symposium titled “Engaging Customers in a World of Disruption,” hosted by the Brierley Institute for Customer Engagement at SMU Cox School of Business. Learn More Insurers' Product Evolutions a Source of Systemic Risk Thu, Nov 8, 2018 Just when “simple" worries about the economy and the elections were on our minds, a new source of risk to the financial system emerges… Learn More SMU Cox Dallas 100™ Names Revolution Retail Systems No. 1 Entrepreneurial Company in Dallas Area Thu, Nov 1, 2018 Learn More Solving the Billion Dollar Challenge of High Drug Development Costs Mon, Oct 8, 2018 What if clinical trials could be conducted faster, required fewer patients, cost less, and led to improved health? "Our approach is good for patients, companies, and the public health at large, which would come from needed drugs being on the market sooner," states Vishal Ahuja, ITOM professor at SMU Cox. Learn More Financial Protectionism Deters Investment and Costs Shareholders Mon, Aug 27, 2018 At a time when capital has never been more mobile and available, financial protectionism is on the rise. The costs of these economic nationalistic policies are little known however. In new research, SMU Cox Finance Professor Miller and co-authors reveal the important consequences of government-related incursions in deals between foreign and domestic companies and the resulting decline in shareholder value for a wide range of industries. Learn More The Economics of Attention: A Valuable Commodity That's Hard to Measure Tue, May 1, 2018 The new scarce resource is attention, notes Marketing Professor Milica Mormann of SMU Cox. "We live in an attention economy, and our attention is limited." Through a multi-disciplinary approach, Mormann and co-author Cary Frydman reveal how attention is operating to influence economic choices in their novel research. "Attention is the step that leads a manager or consumer toward an action," she states. "We know we have about eight seconds to deliver a message on social media, in a TV ad, or for an investing decision or health care choice. But we do not know exactly how attention operates, in spite of the industry performing studies to gauge attention." Learn More Hedge Fund Activism Shows Firms a Better Path Mon, Apr 2, 2018 When it comes to corporate governance, hedge funds are the new sheriffs in town. That’s the take-away of “Do Activists Turn Bad Bidders into Good Acquirers?” Associate Professor of Finance Nickolay Gantchev and his co-authors reveal new insights about the mergers and acquisitions strategy of firms that shareholder activists target. Learn More CEOs "Style" of Information Processing Reflected in Growth Strategies Mon, Dec 4, 2017 Getting inside the mind of the chief executive officer is a difficult research avenue. Knowledge about how CEOs process information, their cognitive style, has been relatively sparse. Strategy Professor Daniel Zyung of SMU Cox and co-authors unpack the cognitive mechanisms of CEOs in new research — and reveal how and why it matters. "Basically, this is a study about CEOs’ information processing style," Zyung says, "with many important implications, including their firm’s growth strategies." Learn More SMU Cox Dallas 100™ Names J.W. Logistics, LLC No. 1 Entrepreneurial Company in Dallas Area Thu, Nov 16, 2017 Learn More U.S. Shale Oil is Plentiful and Competitive, New Research Suggests Mon, Oct 30, 2017 The emergence of U.S. shale oil has expanded the global supply of oil. New research notes that the long-run impact of shale oil will depend on how much can be produced and how much it will cost. Few have good answers. In recent research, finance professor and energy expert James Smith of SMU Cox with co-author Thomas Lee determine what portion of known shale resources are economically viable at various price points and how many wells are likely to be drilled. So far, only a small portion of drilling sites have factored into the shale oil boom, according to Smith, and we have only depleted a fraction of U.S. shale resources. Learn More Gatekeepers Hold Key to Lower Costs in Health Care Tue, Oct 24, 2017 The U.S. healthcare system is the most expensive system in the world. Identifying ways to lower costs and have better health outcomes is a primary goal for health care managers and providers, policymakers and consumers. In new research, ITOM Professor Vishal Ahuja of SMU Cox and co-authors show that better continuity of care lowers costs and wasted effort, reduces time to see specialists, and produces significant savings in hospital system resources. They identify how "gatekeepers" are key to a more optimal and healthier system. Learn More Saving Retirement: Government Subsidy to Investment Industry Shortchanges Savers, Taxpayers Wed, Oct 18, 2017 As policymakers around the globe continue to debate options to incentivize retirement savings, new research uncovers some game-changing facts. The two main competing options consist of traditional tax-deferred savings vehicles like 401(k)s and IRAs, in which savers contribute pretax money and pay tax on withdrawals, or Roth-type plans, whereby savers pay taxes first and withdraw funds tax-free upon retirement. Which type of scheme is better depends on which side of the table one sits. In their paper, SMU Cox Finance Professor Mattia Landoni and co-author Zeldes discover that under a Roth-type regimen, government fares better, largely because of the investment fees that government implicitly pays in traditional tax-deferred accoun Learn More Avoiding the Next Liquidity Crunch: Bond Mutual Funds May Save the Day Thu, Sep 7, 2017 Regulators of financial markets, including the Federal Reserve Bank and the Securities and Exchange Commission, worry about a liquidity crisis in the corporate bond market. The financial market crisis of 2008-2009 involved domino-like liquidity shocks and regulators wish to steer clear of them if they can help it. In new research, SMU Cox Finance Professors Venkataraman and Jotikasthira show that some bond mutual funds are filling the role of a liquidity supplier, alongside a decline in dealer participation in market-making activities. Learn More Is Crowdsourced Investment Research Here to Stay? Fri, Jun 2, 2017 Today, many crowd-sourced investment research venues and platforms co-exist on the Internet, with new competitors continuing to arrive on the scene. These new entrants are becoming a source of information for investors and capital markets that rival the incumbent sell-side analyst research model. Technological innovation is making it so, along with smart entrepreneurs identifying market opportunities. In new research, SMU Cox Accounting Professor Stanimir Markov and co-authors examine how this increased competition is shaking up the status quo. Learn More who is moving modern markets Mon, Apr 3, 2017 The findings will help inform policymakers’ rulemaking to prevent future crashes and better design market structures. Learn More Al Niemi announces plans to step down as dean of the SMU Cox School of Business Thu, Aug 25, 2016 Veteran administrator will continue to serve on Cox faculty Learn More SMU Cox undergraduate degree program ranked no. 21 Wed, Apr 20, 2016 The SMU Cox School of Business Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) degree program remains ranked at no. 21 in the nation in Bloomberg Businessweek’s 2016 Ranking of Best Undergraduate Business Schools. Learn More SMU’S NATIONAL CENTER FOR ARTS RESEARCH (NCAR) RELEASES SECOND ANNUAL ARTS VIBRANCY INDEX Wed, Apr 20, 2016 Six New Cities Added to the Top 20 Lists of Arts Vibrant Cities in the U.S. Data-driven Assessment Ranks Cities by Arts and Cultural Assets Learn More SMU COX STUDENTS GAIN NEW ENERGY INVESTMENT LEARNING RESOURCE Fri, Oct 16, 2015 The state-of-the-art Sheffield Lab will give students a unique experiential learning opportunity as they prepare to enter the energy industry. The hands-on learning space is dedicated solely to the advancement of energy investment-related education. Learn More Big Data: Using Data Analytics to Enhance Drug Safety Tue, Sep 29, 2015 The use of big data in the health care industry, the largest sector of the economy, offers many benefits for the overall economy, businesses, and the health and well-being of people. In a first-of-its-kind study, SMU Cox ITOM Professor Vishal Ahuja and co-authors show how the use of data can validate life-changing health care findings. Additionally, this new approach using big data demonstrates how regulatory agencies can advance their governance missions by monitoring public safety with more robust, real-time analytical methods. Learn More Analyst/Investor Days Recognized as Important Corporate Communications Thu, Sep 24, 2015 With literally troves of corporate information available online for analysts to sift through, how can firms differentiate their message and convey complex, meaningful information to those who need it? The increasing number of analyst days, a long-form presentation by publicly-listed companies, indicate a trend toward a greater demand for face time with management. In novel research, Accounting Professor Stan Markov of SMU Cox and co-author Marcus Kirk study analyst/investor days as a disclosure medium that large firms with complex operations use to deepen stakeholders' understanding about the firm's outlook and valuation. Learn More Deal or No Deal: Are People Hard-Wired to Agree? Mon, Aug 31, 2015 Are people hard-wired to reach agreement, even when a deal is less than optimal or below a bottom line? According to new research by Management Professor Robin Pinkley and co-authors, as if force of habit, when faced with an offer people are reaching agreements and sealing deals when not agreeing might be a more rational choice. This phenomenon is based on the tendency of people being averse to impasse and attracted to agreement. Learn More Rational Investment Decisions: Shale Gas Not Over-Drilled Mon, Aug 17, 2015 The oil and gas industry has received a bad wrap about drilling for shale gas. Since late 2008, when prices collapsed owing to demand destruction from the economic crisis and an abundance of supply, prices of natural gas have remained low. From an all-time high of $14 per mcf (thousand cubic foot) they have fallen to under $3 today. Critics have charged that too many gas wells have been drilled given the low prices, and that the gas boom is unsustainable. SMU Cox Finance Professor James Smith's new research says the facts do not support that claim. Learn More Outdated Convention Distorts Oil and Gas Firms' Bottom Lines: Valuing Barrels Better Fri, Jul 31, 2015 The conventional method used by the oil and gas industry to report on upstream operations and results distorts profitability and valuations. Industry practice is to use "barrels of oil equivalent" or BOE— a measure that combines oil and gas volumes based on thermal parity, or the energy content of the source. Research by Finance Professor James Smith, the Maguire Chair of Oil and Gas Management, shows why and how the BOE convention has overstated the cost of adding reserves, the principal asset held by these firms. This comes at a time when the industry can scarcely afford miscalculations to their detriment. Learn More Why Do Some Firms Announce Stock Buybacks But Not Follow Through? Wed, Jul 1, 2015 Companies buy back stocks for a variety of reasons. One rationale is a key motive for a new study: Managers of undervalued firms use stock repurchases as a mechanism to signal firm value. Curiously, Finance Professor Stacey Jacobsen of SMU Cox and co-author Utpal Bhattacharya find a large number of firms announce share repurchases but do not actually follow through with the buyback. The stock market tends to view repurchase announcements as good news, according to its reaction. Learn More Shareholder Voting and Activism Influences Foreign Firms' Governance Thu, Oct 2, 2014 In the U.S., shareholder voting and activism is increasingly used to influence firm policy. New research by SMU Cox Finance Chair Darius Miller and co-authors suggests that shareholder voting can be an effective governance mechanism in countries outside the U.S. "This is important," says Miller, "since in many countries outside the U.S., the need for governance is greatest." The authors set out to test shareholder activism in global markets in a first-of-its-kind, large-scale study. Prior to this paper, there was not any evidence on whether shareholder voting in other countries was effective or not. Learn More SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter