Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator About ORA Associate Vice President for Research Administration Clinical Research Contact Us Export Control Compliance Office Locations Post-Award Pre-Award Recharge/Service Centers Strategic Initiatives Who is my ORA Contact Person Forms and Rates All ORA Forms Forms by Category F&A Rates Fringe Benefit Rates Institutional Information Compliance Effort Reporting Export Control Compliance Financial Compliance University Research Foreign Influence Guidance Regulatory & Compliance Services Responses to COVID-19 Policies All ORA Policies Award Administration Clinical Research Export Control Compliance F&A Distribution Guidelines Proposal Preparation Recharge Center Policy Research Policies at UM Uniform Guidance Systems IBISResearch Clinical Research (Velos) Conflict of Interest (UDisclose) Effort Reporting (ECC) Greenphire ClinCard Human Subjects (eProst/IRB7) Research Reporting (RRS) Workday Quick Links Agency Links All About Workday Announcements Education and Training Research Road Map ORA Intranet Site ORA Mailboxes Reports and Data Share a Comment Uask FAQs About ORA Forms and Rates Compliance Policies Systems Quick Links Search Start Project Find Funding Prepare-Submit Negotiate-Receive Manage Award Close Out Roadmaps About ORA Associate Vice President for Research Administration Clinical Research Contact Us Export Control Compliance Office Locations Post-Award Pre-Award Recharge/Service Centers Strategic Initiatives Who is my ORA Contact Person Forms and Rates All ORA Forms Forms by Category F&A Rates Fringe Benefit Rates Institutional Information Compliance Effort Reporting Export Control Compliance Financial Compliance University Research Foreign Influence Guidance Regulatory & Compliance Services Responses to COVID-19 Policies All ORA Policies Award Administration Clinical Research Export Control Compliance F&A Distribution Guidelines Proposal Preparation Recharge Center Policy Research Policies at UM Uniform Guidance Systems IBISResearch Clinical Research (Velos) Conflict of Interest (UDisclose) Effort Reporting (ECC) Greenphire ClinCard Human Subjects (eProst/IRB7) Research Reporting (RRS) Workday Quick Links Agency Links All About Workday Announcements Education and Training Research Road Map ORA Intranet Site ORA Mailboxes Reports and Data Share a Comment Uask FAQs OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Start Project Find Funding Prepare-Submit Negotiate-Receive Manage Award Close Out Roadmaps About ORA Forms and Rates Compliance Policies Systems Quick Links Home Quick Links Research Road Map Close Out AAA Close Out Start Project Find Funding Prepare-Submit Negotiate-Receive Manage Award Close Out Roadmaps Expenditures Near the End of a Project Investigators should consider the following when ordering supplies and materials near the end of a project's funding period: Billing and payment can lag behind ordering. Purchased items must be delivered and used for the benefit of the project during the life of the project. Auditors will review expenditure activity at the end of the project period. A large amount of orders placed at the end of a project may give the appearance that the purchases will be used for future research. Stockpiling in this manner is not allowable. Purchases of equipment are subject to the terms and conditions of the sponsored activity. In addition, purchases of equipment requested within six months of the end of a sponsored project are not allowed, unless the Principal Investigator submits a written justification to ORA who will either approve or forward this to the sponsor for approval. See Capital Equipment Policy. Closeout As with other stages in the sponsored projects lifecycle, there are requirements specific to award closeout to ensure that projects are accurately and officially closed. Principal Investigators are responsible for all final reporting requirements other than the final financial report. See the Closeout Policy. There are variations to cost allowability for expenses immediately preceding and after the project end date. See Overdrafts and Disallowances Policy. Final Technical Reports The Principal Investigator is responsible for preparing and submitting the final technical report to the sponsor. Other sponsor closeout documents may include patent documents and scientific inventions. If the final technical report is late, the sponsor may threaten to shut off funds to the University for all accounts and stop issuing new awards. This is not a good outcome for the University or for the principal investigator. Final Financial Report A final financial report is required for most sponsored projects. The Office of Research Administration prepares the financial report and, with concurrence from the Principal Investigator, submits the report to the sponsor. Most sponsors require the final financial report within ninety (90) days of the termination date of the project. It is the policy of the University of Miami to properly account for all project-related expenditures and to transfer residual balances resulting only after all costs on a fixed-price/fixed-fee contract have been recognized. Residuals will be transferred to a designated account within the Principal Investigator’s (PI) department. See the Residuals Balance Policy. For more information about managing your award, visit the Post Award page. If you receive notice of early termination, contact the Office of Research Administration as soon as possible. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Research Administration 1320 S. Dixie Hwy, Suite 650 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3871 305-284-3871 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices