Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Bearcat Bands Bearcat Bands right arrow down arrow Join right arrow down arrow What We Offer Spirit Requirements for Winds Spirit Requirements for Percussion Spirit Requirements for Color Guard Spirit Requirements for Feature Twirlers Concert & Jazz Requirements Give Hire Leadership right arrow down arrow Directors Program Manager Staff Drum Majors Feature Twirlers Section Leaders Managers Band Council Tau Beta Sigma History right arrow down arrow A Narrative History of the Bearcat Bands Points of Pride Chronology of Directors Chronology of Guest Artists Chronology of Repertoire Awards Affiliates & Partners Home » Campus Life » Bearcat Bands Bearcat Bands Who We Are The Bearcat Bands are a comprehensive campus band program providing educational opportunities, artistic expression, and leadership development programs to students through music. Join Band at UC Program Description Ensembles of the Bearcat Bands include the 270-member spirit band program (Marching Band and multiple Basketball Bands), multiple Concert Bands, Jazz Ensembles, various Brass, Woodwind, and Percussion Ensembles, beginning instrumental lessons, and various educational clinics. Our Marching Band integrates a contemporary Color Guard and Twirlers. We achieve tradition through innovation and are passionate about our band, campus, and city. Our membership is open to every enrolled student at the University of Cincinnati, including all satellite campuses, as well as students attending Greater Cincinnati Collegiate Connection schools. Participation in the program is by placement audition. We have opportunities for everyone: those with considerable experience, those with none, and those in between. Mission The Bearcat Bands provide access to musical excellence and create an educated, informed citizenry deeply connected to their humanity. Vision For the University of Cincinnati to be the most musical campus in the United States. Core Values We value pedagogy because we welcome all students with a desire to be taught according to educational best practices in an innovative environment. We value integrity because we welcome all students that are morally, ethically, and legally upright. We value precision because our mutual success is considerably determined by how well each individual prepares and presents. TUCBIDG: The UC Band Is Damn Good Learn More What We Offer Our Leadership Team History of the Band Program Awards and Opportunities Start Your Journey To Membership Today Complete this form to introduce yourself and to let us know you are interested. Give to the Bearcat Bands Click the button to learn more about the ways you can support the students of the Bearcat Bands. Learn More About Giving to the Bearcat Bands Contact Us Address Rockwern Band Center 147 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45219 Directions to the Rockwern Band Center: We are built into the Calhoun Garage. The office entrance is on the north side of the building on the corner of Corry Boulevard and Dennis Street directly across Corry from the Baseball Stadium's third base. The band room entrance is further down Corry Boulevard through the double doors before the parking garage entrance. All entrances are wheelchair accessible. Give us a call at 513-556-2263 if we can help you find our space. Telephone and Email 513-556-2263 (BAND) BearcatBands@ucmail.uc.edu Online Photo Galleries: ucbearcatbands.photos Facebook: facebook.com/BearcatBands Twitter: twitter.com/tucbidg Instagram: instagram.com/tucbidg YouTube: youtube.com/user/BearcatBands Rockwern Band Center 147 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45219 Phone: 513-556-BAND (2263) Fax: 513-556-1245 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Rockwern Band Center 147 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45219 Phone: 513-556-BAND (2263) Fax: 513-556-1245 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top