Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Annual Giving Donate Now Giving Options Affinity Groups Matching Gifts FAQs Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact PreviousNext Take Action Senior Class Gift Faculty and Staff Phonathon Online Giving Form Phonathon Student Callers Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Annual Giving Your annual gift always matters! The Department of Annual Giving raises funds for academic excellence at the University of Memphis and reaches out to alumni and friends, parents, students, and faculty and staff to encourage their lasting connection and involvement with campus. You may choose to designate your annual gift to any of more than 1,200 funds supporting students, faculty or research in any of the University's colleges, schools, departments or programs. Thousands of donors contribute millions of dollars each year, with their generosity touching virtually every area on campus. These gifts are essential for fulfilling our teaching, research and public service mission. Watch Jon's inspiring student story... <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Your Annual Gift to the University of Memphis can be directed to support student scholarships to help students like Jon. Please make your secure online gift to the University today. Why Give? There are many reasons to support the University of Memphis. The common denominator: They all provide our margin of excellence so that we can better serve our students and faculty and do more for our state, region, nation and the world. Be Recognized The University of Memphis has established several recognition societies to thank donors for their generosity. Unless anonymity is requested, donors' names are often listed in donor appreciation publications. Our Giving Societies are: • Blue and Grey Society • President's Society • Columns Society • Centennial Circle • Mynders Society • Brister Society • Manning Society Provide Critical Revenue You may think University of Memphis needs minimal support from private donors. After all, as a state university, we receive funding from the Tennessee legislature, and we also get revenue from other sources. But our annual state appropriations, which made up a large part of our revenue for almost a decade, have steadily decreased. Meantime, our portion of revenue that comes from student tuition and fees has increased until last year. The message is clear: Private giving must increase to help offset state budget cuts and lessen the need for higher student tuition and fees if we're to sustain our tradition of excellence and access. Support Our Priorities We value and welcome gifts of all types and sizes. Donors who want to make gifts that require minimal guidance can make a gift to the Memphis Fund or a specific University area. Most often, these are gifts that we can put to use immediately to help students and faculty. Please make your gift today. Donors who want to make gifts that require more consultation – such as creating an endowed scholarship or making a planned estate gift – please contact the Director of Development. Contact the Annual Giving staff Email: umannualgiving@memphis.edu Phone: 901.678.5664 (during business hours 8:00am-4:30pm CST) Mail: Department of Annual Giving, 120 Alumni Center, Memphis, TN 38152 Web: Annual Giving Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/7/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.