SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Master of Science in Management Master of Science in Management Overview Curriculum Management In Action Project Support for Your Success Admissions Overview Curriculum Management In Action Project Support for Your Success Admissions Get Where You're Going — Faster Push ahead of the pack with a master’s program that puts you in the driver’s seat of your career. Ranked No. 6 in the U.S. by The Economist, the MS in Management at SMU Cox gives you a strong grasp of the fundamentals: finance, statistics, marketing, accounting, operations and strategic management. Tap into the Cox School's deep relationships with business leaders at Dallas's global 500s. These executives not only help shape the program you graduate from — they're on campus giving talks and connecting. Count on a return on your investment at Cox: More than 90 percent of our recent MSM grads received their job offers within three months of graduation. Gain the Edge that Employers Seek Students who have completed the Masters of Science in Management curriculum will be armed with a strong business foundation that will help to transform their resume into a more marketable and diversified set of experiences. MSM graduates will increase their personal earning potential and gain access to job opportunities and career tracks that are reserved for students who hold advanced degrees. Contact Us MEET 1:1 WITH ADMISSIONS Request More Information Start Your Application I’m most proud of the opportunity to learn how to handle a challenging curriculum while balancing my time to network with other professionals and classmates. Elie Nabushosi 2018 MSM Find Your Student Club See All Clubs Consulting & Corporate Strategy Club This dynamic organization guides SMU students to success in the ever changing business landscape. The club offers members case interview practice, a chance to network with local boutique and specialty consulting firms to create consulting project opportunities, and face time with hiring managers. Learn More Entrepreneurship Club Fuel your passion for entrepreneurship and connect with supportive mentors and peer entrepreneurs across the SMU campus. From the maker space in the Lyle School of Engineering to national business plan competitions, this club will open new doors to opportunity — both on campus and beyond. Learn More Women in Business One of SMU Cox's largest student organizations, Women in Business helps launch you into a meaningful career as a business leader. You'll find opportunities for mentorship and networking with high-powered women from industries across Dallas, as well as a calendar full of events, from lunch-and-learns with guest speakers to seminars and get-togethers. The club's relationship with the Forté Foundation means you automatically benefit from membership in the national organization. Learn More By the Numbers: The Cox MSM Class of 2022 Class Size 61 Women 41% Under-Represented Minorities 18% Average GPA 3.31 International Students 10% Number of Countries Represented 14 After Cox: Success Stories Chris Hipps, MS Management 2015 Vice president of development at Direct Development A high school football star and college lacrosse player at Duke, Chris Hipps was headed to SMU Cox to compete in football with the Mustangs. But there was another story: Although he was a history major at Duke, Chris had discovered a passion for real estate during his summer internship, and he had chosen SMU Cox for its MSM program. Just a year later, Chris landed the role of vice president at Dallas real estate development company Direct Development. Chelsey Caldwell, MS Management 2018 People Advisory Services Staff Consultant at EY "The MSM program engaged me, and changed me. My coursework enabled me to travel to Dubai, and the career resources helped me secure my dream job. I cannot wait to start my next chapter in consulting." Cameron Smith, MS Management 2016 Treasurers Specialist at JCPenney "I was attracted the MSM program because of the versatility it provides candidates in the workspace. Not only did I receive a world class education, but I gained a network that will last a lifetime." SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter