Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Apply Degree Outlines Audition Information Scholarships and Assistantships Tuition & Financial Aid International Students Admissions FAQ Admissions Events Arrange a Visit Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Admissions Voice Audition Requirements Voice Audition Requirements Please select your degree: Voice - Undergraduate Voice – Undergraduate BM Music Performance – Classical Voice & BM Music Education – Choral: Voice Two solos, one English or one American art song plus one foreign language art song or aria, memorized Sight-reading Pitch recognition All other concentrations of the B.M. in Music, Music Minor, and Applied Lessons One solo selection, no language requirement; selections should be in a classical style and memorized. Sight-reading. Pitch recognition. Vocalists who are applying for a Non-major Scholarship must complete a School of Music application to schedule an audition. Vocalists who are seeking applied lessons only (no scholarship) should request an audition directly with the Voice Area Coordinator. All students will be heard by a committee of the voice faculty. Under special circumstances the head of the Voice division may hear and audition incoming students without an audition committee with approval of voice faculty members. Each auditionee should bring sheet music as a pianist will be provided. Auditionees may bring their own pianists. Recorded accompaniments are allowed but not preferred. Voice - Graduate Voice - Graduate All students will be heard by a committee of the voice faculty. Under special circumstances, the head of the Voice division may hear and audition incoming students without an audition committee with the approval of voice faculty members. A pre-screen audition is required for all graduate voice applicants. Deadline: December 1. This video should be comprised of two items - one opera aria in the original language, plus one contrasting selection of your choice. Live auditions will be granted to applicants who pass this screening. Live audition requirements Perform 4 selections including English, French, German, and Italian. The selections should represent a variety of styles and time periods, but also reveal your strengths and personality as a performer. All selections are to be performed from memory. Repertoire from the pre-screening video may be repeated at the live audition. Applicants should submit recital programs from previous degree(s) and/or a representative repertoire list of undergraduate literature performed by the applicant. Portfolio: at the time of application, graduate voice applicants should submit a resume, headshot, and the prescreen audition videos. Optional items include a list of repertoire performed and recital programs. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/27/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.