Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Arts in Film, BA Explore the Theory and Practice of Filmmaking Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Sciences Department(s) Nicholson Schl of Comm & Media 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Succeed in the Entertainment Industry as a Filmmaker The B.A. in Film offers courses in film theory, history and criticism. The aim of the program is to give students a broad and in-depth knowledge of these areas. The emphasis is on the aesthetics, styles and forms of film. The first two years of the program provide students with a general background and introduction. In the second two years, the program concentrates on the analysis of specific film practices such as editing, color, sound, staging, cinematography, narrative form and theoretical and historical perspectives. In the advanced courses, student learning will be verbal and visual, written and practical. Students are expected to have access to a digital video camera and an editing suite. Courses are sequenced and coordinated over the period of the degree enabling students to build on their learning in a progressive and coherent manner. An Honors Dissertation is an option in the final year. Students of Film have the advantage of stimulus and interaction with faculty and students in other disciplines and the opportunity to take elective courses in these areas. The emphasis on film form and the integration of theoretical/historical and practical studies in the UCF program makes it unique and innovative. Other Film and Mass Media Programs and Certificates: Film, BFA Journalism, BA Media Production and Management, BA Hispanic/Latino Media Certificate Highlights The Film, BA program is under UCF’s Nicholson School of Communication and Media which provides a creative, collaborative and ethical environment for the production of high-quality games, interactive media, film and mass communication. Florida has one of the highest employment levels for artists in the country, along with Nevada and California. The national median earnings for craft and fine artists is $49,120. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Film Theory and Criticism I Explore major film theories to the World War II period. Research Methods for Filmmakers Learn research methods and applied issues of responsibility for filmmakers. Capstone I - The Professional Practice Prepare for the transition to a professional practice, clarifying the paths available to visual artists after graduation. Film Skills You'll Learn Develop expertise in the ideation, creation, production and promotion of film. Gain hands-on experience in written and visual storytelling. Work on interdisciplinary teams, learning how to collaborate with others and make sound decisions. Get first-hand experience using various editing and recording technology. Connect with local and national leaders in film and entertainment through networking opportunities, internships, etc. Career Opportunities Film/Video Editor Broadcast Presenter Production Designer/Planner Digital Content Producer Film Producer Assignment Editor Film Publicist Nicholson School of Communication and Media News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Research in 60 Seconds Video: Examining Effective Crisis Communication Pegasus Professor Timothy Sellnow, who teaches in the Nicholson School of Communication and Media, researches the importance and impact of simply using the right words during… Student Life New UCF Podcast Provides Government Transparency and Real-world Journalism Experience Spanning six episodes, the Winter Park Sunshine podcast aims to keep Central Floridians informed and engaged. Arts & Culture Using the Arts to Take a Deep Dive into the Sea Pegasus Professor Stella Sung’s composition Oceana: Sounds of the Sea will invite patrons at UCF Celebrates the Arts into a story they will never forget. Colleges & Campus UCF Names 2022 Pegasus Professors This year’s recipients include expert researchers in the fields of physics and crisis communications. Degree Search College of Sciences programs Bachelors Film (BA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida