Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Student Multidisciplinary Applied Research Teams (SMART) program overview Posted on September 28, 2017 By Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X [MUSIC PLAYING] SAMUEL BOSCO: Teamwork. YAMATHA SAINT GERMAIN: Invaluable. AMRUTA BYATNAL: Transformative. DELMAR FEARS: Rewarding. ELIZABETH SWEITZER: Enterprising. QIUHAO (RYAN) SHEN: Impact. EDWARD MABAYA: The Student Multi-disciplinary Applied Research Teams, also known as SMART, is a unique service learning initiative offered in the Emerging Markets Program that is housed the Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management. SMART brings together small teams of Cornell University students, along with faculty team leaders, from very diverse disciplines. And it pairs them with small enterprises, organizations, and community groups that are often located in developing countries and emerging economies. Through SMART, this small group of students get to work on very well-defined assignments that challenge them to apply classroom knowledge and skills in a real-world setting. Since its inception in 2002, SMART has already sent out over 80 teams to 24 countries in Africa, Asia, and the Americas. Paired with the right people on the ground, this kind of experience can actually bring meaningful impact in the lives of many, many people. AMRUTA BYATNAL: As Cornell students, we could contribute in terms of our skills, and that would potentially help the business. But also, what we gained was a lot of perspective in terms of how businesses work in the developing world. And that really helped me strengthen some of the theoretical frameworks that I'd learned here in the classroom at Cornell. ELIZABETH SWEITZER: The SMART experience was a very integral moment for me, because I'm learning and pivoting my professional portfolio into agricultural systems. And I found this experience to be really important to learn more about soil health, agricultural systems, and international agriculture in particular. Working with the different farmers, learning from their experiences, and trusting their local knowledge was a very humbling experience. QIUHAO (RYAN) SHEN: The one thing I took away from SMART is courage, because for me, that was my first semester here at Cornell from China-- completely different cultural environment. I can feel the responsibility to helping people outside the world of not only Cornell, not only China-- I mean, humankind. SAMUEL BOSCO: I would recommend SMART, because I think it's really an amazing opportunity to take what we learn here at Cornell to other parts of the world in which there are real situations and real challenges in which the expertise we learn here can actually become useful. YAMATHA SAINT GERMAIN: In the future, I want to work with agro-business, in terms of their development and sustainability. Being part of the program helped me focus on what my thesis topic would be, and also opened my eyes up to the type of organizations that I would want to work with in the future. EDWARD MABAYA: Students come here to Cornell University to learn, to be [INAUDIBLE] with theory and practice, learning the tools of how the world works. It's very different from getting to apply them. Very rarely do students get the opportunity to do, at the same time, learn the concepts and get the apply them in a real-world setting where those skills are actually needed. So this is a unique service and value that SMART brings to the students. DELMAR FEARS: I learned how to work with a lot of different people who have a lot of different skill sets. I worked with people who had a policy background. I worked with people who had a business background. I worked with people who were graphic designers, people who brought a lot of different things to the table. But we learned to work together and create something really awesome. So I think I learned the power of diversity in teams. CHENYANG (GLORIA) CAO: To me, it is an academic adventure. I think this is an adventure, but it's not only about adventure. It's more like applying what you have learned on the campus in a class to a real place. Real partnership is not only to help someone. It's actually learning from them and growing with them together. HONGDI ZHAO: I thought the SMART program is very valuable to me, because it's the entry point for me to let me know that I'm passionate about research. And also, when I know that the report that we wrote and we give it to the foundation for the [INAUDIBLE] is actually going to impact this region, this make me feel very proud of our work. That's really, really inspirational, and it's very, very valuable for me. DELMAR FEARS: It's an amazing experience. You get a lot out of it. You get to meet a lot of cool people. You get out of your comfort zone. CHENYANG (GLORIA) CAO: This is a unique opportunity for you to learn about emerging countries, emerging markets. And also, this is a chance for you to learn from your schoolmates, learn from people from different cultures. ELIZABETH SWEITZER: It's an incredible opportunity to gain work experience, academic experience, and develop collaborative skills with fellow Cornellians. [MUSIC PLAYING] Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Cornell students who have participated in the Student Multidisciplinary Applied Research Teams (SMART) Program share their reflections and experiences, and director Ed Mabaya provides an overview of the program and its objectives. Student speakers: Amruta Aravind Byatnal (CIPA); Elizabeth Grace Sweitzer (CIPA); Hongdi Zhao (CIPA); Samuel Frank Bosco (Horticulture); Yamatha Saint Germain (International Development); Delmar Renee Sims Fears (Development Sociology); Qiuhao Shen (CIPA); and Chenyang Cao (AEM) Related Links More about the SMART Program More About undergraduate research student work public engagement economic development international education What to watch next 1:45 MyPlaylist Undergrads tackle global health, diabetes, plant genetics at 2014 research forum 1:15:00 MyPlaylist Cornell Institute for Public Affairs Class of 2017 Commencement Ceremony 3:53 MyPlaylist Cornell University's impact in Buffalo, NY surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×