Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Programs Woods College of Advancing Studies Graduate Programs Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Woods College of Advancing Studies As one of the eight schools that make up Boston College, the James A. Woods, S.J., College of Advancing Studies (Woods College) fosters students’ rigorous intellectual development coupled with religious, ethical, and personal formation in order to prepare them for citizenship, service, and leadership in a global society. Within the context of the Boston College environment, Woods College promotes the care and attention to the human person that is the hallmark of Jesuit Catholic education. In addition, our faculty and students engage in significant applied scholarship that enriches the culture and addresses important societal needs. Woods College offers the atmosphere of a small college within the environment of a large university. Students receive personal attention while enjoying access to the many resources of Boston College. Courses are ordinarily scheduled after work hours during the week. Online courses are available for specific programs. Graduate Programs The James A. Woods, S.J., College of Advancing Studies offers graduate degree programs that focus on the application of knowledge and skills to professional practice. The graduate programs combine academic and workplace experience to enable students to enhance their professional competencies thereby facilitating career development and advancement. With an applied focus, each graduate program in Woods College provides effective and efficient learning opportunities for students to develop complex knowledge and skills with the goal of preparing students to address current and future professional and societal challenges. Woods College graduate program directors, faculty, and advisors help direct prior learning and work experience toward degree completion and career advancement through advanced coursework and applied projects. Woods College offers the following Master-level degree programs: Master of Science in Applied Analytics Master of Science in Applied Economics Master of Science in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance Master of Healthcare Administration Master of Science in Leadership and Administration Master of Science in Sports Administration Dual Master of Science in Applied Economics and Cybersecurity Policy Dual Master of Science in Applied Economics and Applied Analytics Woods College offers graduate-level certificates in the following areas. Applied Economics Graduate Certificates Graduate Certificate in Data Analytics Leadership and Administration Graduate Certificates Graduate Certificate in Corporate Communications and Marketing Graduate Certificate in Executive Leadership and Organizational Development Graduate Certificate in Human Resources Management Graduate Certificate in Project Management Graduate Certificate in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Cybersecurity Graduate Certificates Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy Graduate Certificate in Computer Security Graduate Certificate in National Security and Global Affairs Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity Analytics Sports Management Graduate Certificates Graduate Certificate in Sports Analytics Graduate Certificate in Student-Athlete Development Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Faculty Woods College of Advancing Studies Website Print Open All Close All Master of Science in Applied Analytics (On Campus and Online) Master of Science in Applied Analytics (On Campus and Online) Program Description The Master of Science in Applied Analytics offers practical curriculum in advanced analytics with emphasis on Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence approaches. The focus of the program is to equip students to carry out analytics on a variety of data sets in terms of size and complexity, identify patterns and causal relationships, derive results and turn them into actionable insights, and, ultimately, communicate the insights to variety of audiences in order to influence business or policy decisions. The curriculum instils analytic rigor, with appreciation for interaction with non-technical audiences and the need for communication and influencing skills. In addition, as a part of Boston College’s focus on formation and service to others, the ethical side of analytics is also considered, whether directly through the Model Governance course or indirectly through interactions and instruction in other courses. Graduates of M.S. in Applied Analytics program will be able to perform cutting-edge analytic work and be able to take data projects through the complete lifecycle from inception to delivery of insights. They will be able to communicate their findings to non-technical audiences and understand the implications of their recommendation on actual business and/or policy actions and outcomes. In short, graduates of the M.S. in Applied Analytics will do analytics not for sake of analytics, but to drive real impact. The Master of Science in Applied Analytics is a ten-course degree program. The program can be completed in a 12-month period, but is designed to be flexible in meeting student needs, allowing students to attend full- or part-time. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis for admission in the fall, spring and summer semesters. All undergraduate majors are encouraged to apply. Program graduates will be able to: Design analytic approaches to solve complex problems Understand and deploy advanced analytic techniques in search of actionable insights Use machine learning and artificial intelligence tools and approaches to leverage data for business and policy decision-making Draw insights from analytics and communicate them clearly to non-technical audiences Drive real impact based on results and insights from analytics Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college/university (minimum GPA 3.0) Official academic transcripts from colleges/universities where courses were completed GRE (reporting code 7534) or GMAT (reporting code 44X-HX-07) are optional Personal Statement Letters of Recommendation (Two) Resume Application Fee Prerequisite courses: Statistics and Calculus I* Note: *CLEP exam score of 56 or higher is acceptable in lieu of a passing grade from an accredited undergrad program. International Students—Additional Admission Requirements In addition to the general requirements listed above, international students have the following requirements: TOEFL (minimum 90–100 range) (reporting code 3276) or IELTS (minimum 6.5–7.5 range) from within the past two years, unless they have completed their undergraduate degree at a regionally-accredited U.S. institution, or a foreign institution in which English is the medium of instruction. Detailed course-by-course transcript evaluation indicating conferral of an undergraduate degree that is equivalent to a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution (see transcript requirements for international students). Degree Requirements Ten courses are required to complete the Master of Science in Applied Analytics. Foundational Requirements (All Required, 6 Credits*) ADAN7510 Mathematical Methods for Machine Learning I ADAN/ADEC7310 Data Analysis *Students who have taken Calculus II and Linear Algebra in their undergraduate studies can obtain course equivalence for ADAN7510. Students who have completed advanced Statistics courses such as Econometrics in their undergraduate studies can obtain course equivalence for ADAN/ADEC7310. Course equivalence does not result in reduction of required credits, but allows students to enroll in electives instead of fundamental courses. Core Requirements (All Required, 12 Credits) ADAN7920 AI/ML Software Tools and Platforms ADAN/ADEC7340 AI Algorithms I/Big Data Econometrics ADAN7350 AI Algorithms II ADAN7500 Algorithmic Ethics and Governance—from Traditional to AI/ML Project Requirements (All Required, 3 Credits) ADAN8880 Directed Practicum in Analytics Electives Requirements (Selected from the Following, Minimum of 9 Credits*) ADAN/ADEC7320 Regression Models/Econometrics ADAN7520 Machine Learning Product Management ADAN/ADEC7460 Predictive Analytics/Forecasting ADAN/ADEC7410 Operations Research ADAN7520 Mathematical Methods for Machine Learning II ADAN/ADEC7470 Advanced Econometrics *Students who have undergraduate preparation that allows for a course equivalence for fundamental courses can take 6 credit hours of electives and possibly take electives from other programs at WCAS with permission of the Program Director). Scheduling and Tuition Program courses are scheduled ordinarily meeting one time per week starting in the late afternoons on weeknights and during the day on Saturdays. Courses meet face-to-face or online in a variety of formats. Students can complete the program in either modality or combine classes according to their schedule. Information about tuition rates for the 2022–2023 academic year is available at the Tuition and Fees page. Students are assessed a $25 registration fee each semester they enroll in courses. Master of Science in Applied Economics (On Campus and Online) Master of Science in Applied Economics (On Campus and Online) Program Description The Master of Science in Applied Economics offers a practical and comprehensive curriculum to students interested in acquiring skills related to the analysis and interpretation of data across a variety of fields. Through training in Economic theory, graduates will be equipped to understand the context of data they are analyzing, and through training in cutting-edge analytic techniques, they will be able to analyze the data, interpret and present results to decision makers, and make recommendations bolstered by the results of the data analysis. The focus of the program is on preparing graduates to use rigorous analytic approaches to provide actionable insights for their organization. The program provides individuals with extensive training in the tools and methods necessary for understanding complex policy issues, industry trends, and analytic strategies within fields and industries including health care, finance, marketing, and environmental policy. These skills are developed within a curricular framework that emphasizes reflective, people-centered, ethical decision making reflected in a Jesuit, Ignatian tradition. The program is intended for individuals seeking to begin or advance their careers in industry, policy and government, or non-profit sector. The Master of Science in Applied Economics is a ten-course degree program. The program can be completed in a 12-month period, but is designed to be flexible in meeting student needs, allowing students to attend full- or part-time. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis for admission in the fall, spring and summer semesters. All undergraduate majors are encouraged to apply. Program graduates develop career skills that include: Use of economic models to analyze the choices made by consumers, investors, firms, and governments Utilizing macro and microeconomic models in order to analyze business, policy, and social issues and decisions Interpreting and analyze macroeconomic data to formulate economic policy and to evaluate the impact of macroeconomic events and forces on their organization Practical knowledge of data analysis including econometric and non-econometric approaches Applying economic models and econometric techniques in the context of economic analysis in order to address practical business or policy issues Use of statistical/econometric software packages Ability to evaluate the ethical ramifications of economic policy proposals Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college/university (minimum GPA 3.0) Official academic transcripts from colleges/universities where courses were completed GRE (reporting code 7534) or GMAT (reporting code 44X-HX-07) are optional Personal Statement Letters of Recommendation (Two) Resume Application Fee Prerequisite courses: Principles of Microeconomics,* Principles of Macroeconomics,* Statistics,* Calculus I,* and Calculus II** Notes: *CLEP exam score of 56 or higher is acceptable in lieu of a passing grade from an accredited undergrad program. **Calculus II may be taken concurrently during your first semester of study. This requirement can also be fulfilled by taking ADEC3510 Mathematics for Economists (these prerequisite courses do not count toward the degree). International Students—Additional Admission Requirements In addition to the general requirements listed above, international students have the following requirements: TOEFL (minimum 90–100 range) (reporting code 3276) or IELTS (minimum 6.5–7.5 range) from within the past two years, unless they have completed their undergraduate degree at a regionally-accredited U.S. institution, or a foreign institution in which English is the medium of instruction. Detailed course-by-course transcript evaluation indicating conferral of an undergraduate degree that is equivalent to a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution (see transcript requirements for international students). Degree Requirements Ten courses are required to complete the Master of Science in Applied Economics. Core Requirements (All Required, 15 Credits) ADEC7201 Applied Microeconomic Theory ADEC7200 Applied Macroeconomic Theory ADEC7320 Econometrics ADEC7310 Data Analysis ADEC7500 Ethics, Economics and Public Policy Electives Requirements (Selected from the Following, 15 Credits) ADEC7101 Directed Readings and Research ADEC7340 Advanced Urban and Regional Economics ADEC7350 Economics of Banking and Insurance ADEC7360 Financial Economics ADEC7370 Applied Stress Testing for Economists ADEC7380 Empirical Health Economics ADEC7390 Empirical Money and Banking ADEC7410 Operations Research in Applied Economics ADEC7420 Development Economics ADEC7430 Big Data Econometrics ADEC7450 Private Sector Development and Economic Growth ADEC7460 Predictive Analytics/Forecasting ADEC7500 Ethics, Economics, and Public Policy ADEC7510 Law and Economics ADEC7520 Transfer Pricing ADEC7530 Measuring Business Cycles, Trends, and Growth Cycles ADEC7810 Empirical Behavioral Economics ADEC7820 Economics of Innovation and Entrepreneurship ADEC7840 Management of Projects in Applied Economics ADEC7910 Software Tools for Data Analysis ADEC7920 Market Research and Analysis ADEC7930 Fundamentals of Private Equity ADEC7940 Environmental and Natural Resource Economics ADEC8880 Directed Practicum Scheduling and Tuition Program courses are scheduled ordinarily meeting one time per week starting in the late afternoons on weeknights and during the day on Saturdays. Courses meet face-to-face or online in a variety of formats. Students can complete the program in either modality or combine classes according to their schedule. Students who complete the required courses will be awarded the Graduate Certificate in Data Analytics at the time of conferral of the master’s degree. Information about tuition rates for the 2022–2023 academic year is available at the Tuition and Fees page. Students are assessed a $25 registration fee each semester they enroll in courses. Master of Science in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance (On Campus and Online) Master of Science in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance (On Campus and Online) Program Description The Master of Science in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance provides students with the skills necessary to manage the critical and emerging cybersecurity issues faced by private industry and government. Taught by industry leaders and practitioners, students will learn applied and hands-on methods to identify, assess, and manage cyber risk, and to develop and implement a proactive, comprehensive cybersecurity strategy to effectively defend, mitigate, and recover from a cyber-attack. The program prepares practitioners to design and lead business cases for investment to senior executives, boards of directors, and government officials, and to bridge the communication gap between Information Technology (IT) security professionals and key business stakeholders. Students will also learn to cultivate strategies based on ethical principles informed by company policies and government regulations to protect against and respond to cyber threats. The program emphasizes leadership, critical thinking, analytic problem solving, and strong communication skills, preparing practitioners to meet and respond to the varying issues presented by a rapidly changing cyber ecosystem. The Master of Science in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance is a ten-course degree program that can be completed in a 16-month period, but is designed to be flexible in meeting students’ needs. The program is intended for business and government professionals, managers, and practitioners, IT professionals, and individuals seeking skills in cybersecurity strategy, leadership, management, and policy to begin or advance careers in private industry or government. As a working professional, you may wish to attend full- or part-time. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis for admission in the fall or spring semesters. Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college/university (minimum GPA 3.0) Official academic transcripts from colleges/universities where courses were completed Personal Statement Letters of Recommendation (Two) Resume Application Fee Although we prefer 3–5 years of professional experience involving information technology, cybersecurity related issues, business management, communications, privacy, risk management and compliance, and/or law enforcement and national security concerns, applicants with less than 3 years of professional experience will be considered for admission based on their academic credentials and relevant coursework and are encouraged to apply.* Note: *Applicants who do not meet this requirement also may be considered for admission by the program director with the following condition: the completion of an approved course(s) within the Cybersecurity Program, with a grade of B or higher. International Students Applicants requiring a student visa to enroll in this program are currently not eligible to apply for this program. Program Requirements Ten courses are required to complete the Master of Science in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance. Core Requirements (All Required, 18 Credits) ADCY6000 Cyber Ecosystem and Cybersecurity ADCY6050 Cybersecurity Policy: Privacy and Legal Requirements ADCY6300 Network and Infrastructure Security (Prereq: ADCY 6000) ADCY6350 Incident Response and Management ADCY6500 Organizational Effectiveness: Governance, Risk Management, and Compliancy ADCY6900 Ethical Issues in Cybersecurity Specialization Requirements Students choose a specialization below or 12 credits of any non-core courses to complete the degree program. Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy Specialization Requirements (Select from the Following, 12 Credits) ADCY6925 Cybersecurity: Risk Management and Resiliency ADCY6400 Managing Cyber Risk: Mobile Devices and Social Networking ADCY6475 Security in the Cloud ADCY6600 Cybersecurity: The Role of the CISO ADCY6450 Cyber Investigations and Digital Forensics ADCY6630 Cyber Crime ADCY6640 National Security: Law, Policy, and Investigations Computer Security Specialization Requirements (Select from the Following, 12 Credits) ADCY6810 Cybersecurity: Designing Offensive/Defensive Capabilities (Prereq: ADCY6000) ADCY6450 Cyber Investigations and Digital Forensics ADCY6475 Security in the Cloud ADCY6925 Cybersecurity: Risk Management and Resiliency ADCY6820 Cybersecurity Engineering ADCY6830 Applied Cryptography ADCY6840 Machine Learning and Data Analytics National Security and Global Affairs Specialization Requirements (Select from the Following, 12 Credits) ADCY6630 Cyber Crime ADCY6650 Role of Intelligence: Enabling Proactive Security ADCY6200 International Cybersecurity ADCY6450 Cyber Investigations and Digital Forensics ADCY6925 Cybersecurity: Risk Management and Resiliency ADCY6640 National Security: Law, Policy, and Investigations ADCY6630 Counterintelligence: Methods and Process ADCY6620 National Security: Corporate Law and Policy Elective Requirements if you are not completing a specialization (Select from the Following, 12 Credits) ADCY6630 Cyber Crime ADCY6200 International Cybersecurity ADCY6400 Managing Cyber Risk: Mobile Devices and Social Networking ADCY6425 Cyber Strategy: Innovation, Technology, and Formative Development ADCY6450 Cyber Investigations and Digital Forensics ADCY6475 Security in the Cloud ADCY6600 Cybersecurity: The Role of the CISO ADCY6620 National Security: Corporate Law and Policy ADCY6630 Counterintelligence: Methods and Process ADCY6640 National Security: Law, Policy, and Investigations ADCY6650 Role of Intelligence: Enabling Proactive Security ADCY6700 Privacy Law and Data Protection ADCY6810 Cybersecurity: Designing Offensive/Defensive Capabilities (Prereq: ADCY6000) ADCY6820 Cybersecurity Engineering ADCY6830 Applied Cryptography ADCY6840 Machine Learning and Data Analytics ADCY6850 Applied Research Project: Study Abroad at Cambridge University, UK ADCY6925 Cybersecurity: Risk Management and Resiliency ADCY6955 Applied Research Project for Non-Profit Organizations Scheduling and Tuition Program courses are available on campus during the evening and online. Students may take any combination of course delivery that works best for them. Information about tuition rates for the 2022–2023 academic year is available at the Tuition and Fees page. Students are assessed a $25 registration fee each semester they enroll in courses. Master in Healthcare Administration (Online Only) Master of Healthcare Administration (Online Only) Program Description The Master of Healthcare Administration program provides a comprehensive perspective of the health ecosystem and prepares students who seek to have an impact as a future leader. With a focus on service and leadership in a global society, the program fosters academic growth, supports career development, and readies graduates to drive organizational change across the rapidly transforming health ecosystem. The Master of Healthcare Administration curriculum is based on twelve integrated courses that incorporate contemporary challenges and emerging trends in healthcare technology and innovation. The MHA program is for part-time and full-time students who are at various career stages. Most students choose to take one course every seven weeks (two courses per semester) and complete the program in two years. Some students elect to take more than one course every seven weeks in order to progress more quickly through the curriculum. The accelerated courses, which are offered in seven-week sessions, help students gain knowledge across the health ecosystem industries. Students come from across the nation, and from a broad range of settings, including health systems management, insurance providers, as well as biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and medical device industries. The program also attracts professionals from the software and technology sectors, and others who aspire to pivot into healthcare related industries, along with individuals who aspire to develop and/or advance their career as healthcare managers. With three starting points each year (August, January, and May), applications for admissions are accepted on a rolling basis. Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college/university (minimum GPA 3.0) Official academic transcripts from colleges/universities where courses were completed Personal Statement Letters of Recommendation (Two) Resume Application Fee Note: Applicants whose undergraduate GPA is below 3.0 will be considered for admission. Such applications will be considered holistically, including letters of recommendation, personal statement, and professional experience. Recent college graduates with little to no professional experience must have a 3.0 GPA to be competitive for full acceptance. International Students Applicants requiring a student visa to enroll in this program are currently not eligible to apply for this program. Program Requirements Twelve courses are required to complete the Master of Health Administration. There are no electives. Core Requirements (All Required, 46 Credits) ADHA7000 Introduction to Healthcare Systems and Organizations (4 credits) ADHA7005 Management Theory and Organizational Behavior (4 credits) ADHA7010 Health Policy (4 credits) ADHA7015 Leadership in Healthcare (4 credits) ADHA7020 Workforce Development (4 credits) ADHA7025 Current Issues in Health Economics (4 credits) ADHA7033 Health Ethics and Law (4 credits) ADHA7035 Healthcare Innovation-Based Strategy: Managing Change (2 credits) ADHA7040 Healthcare Quality Management (4 credits) ADHA7045 Health Analytics: Assessing and Critiquing Evidence and Decision-Making (4 credits) ADHA7050 Healthcare Information Technology (4 credits) ADHA7055 Strategic Planning and Marketing (4 credits) Scheduling and Tuition Program courses are offered online asynchronously with an optional weekly discussion hour. Information about tuition rates for the 2022–2023 academic year is available at the Tuition and Fees page. Students are assessed a $25 registration fee each semester they enroll in courses. Master of Science Leadership and Administration (On Campus and Online) Master of Science in Leadership and Administration (On Campus and Online) Program Description This program is designed to help students acquire the high-level leadership and management skills and competencies necessary for effective leadership. The program trains students to be agile and inclusive changemakers who adapt their methods and organizations to internal and external challenges and trends. With a foundation in leading and managing change, the courses focus on creativity, innovation, teamwork, and service-oriented approaches that prioritize equity and build others up. Students learn strategies to lead—and thrive—in diverse and complex environments. Students graduate from this program grounded and confident in applied leadership skills. With several specializations to choose from, this degree is designed to equip you with the skills and knowledge to lead and manage in a variety of professional fields. The M.S. in Leadership and Administration Program is comprised of six core courses. Students then customize their degree by choosing from one of five exciting, relevant and in-demand specializations: Corporate Communications and Marketing; Executive Leadership and Organizational Development; Human Resources Management; Project Management; or Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college/university (minimum GPA 3.0) Official academic transcripts from colleges/universities where courses were completed Personal Statement Letters of Recommendation (Two) Resume Application Fee Optional—GRE (reporting code 7534) or GMAT (reporting code 44X-HX-47)— recommended for students with lower undergraduate GPA International Students—Additional Admission Requirements In addition to the general requirements listed above, international students have the following requirements: Interview (in person or online) TOEFL (minimum 90–100 range) (reporting code 3276) or IELTS (minimum 6.5–7.5 range) from within the past two years, unless they have completed their undergraduate degree at a regionally-accredited U.S. institution, or a foreign institution in which English is the medium of instruction. Detailed course-by-course transcript evaluation indicating conferral of an undergraduate degree that is equivalent to a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution (see transcript requirements for international students). Degree Requirements Core Requirements (All Required, 18 Credits) ADGR7708 Project Management ADGR7715 Inclusive Leadership ADGR7726 Leading and Managing Change ADGR7777 Evolution of Successful Marketing Strategies in the Digital Era ADGR7785 Leadership and Decision Making: Ignatian-based Applied Ethics ADGR9902 Applied Leadership Project Specialization Requirements Students choose from one of the specializations below to complete their degree program. Corporate Communications and Marketing Specialization Requirements (All Required, 12 Credits) ADGR8006 Communication in a Global Work Environment ADGR8028 Public Relations/Crisis Communication ADGR8041 Social Influence ADGR8120 Marketing Analytics Executive Leadership and Organizational Development Specialization Requirements (All Required, 12 Credits) ADGR8010 Leader as Change Agent ADGR8015 Business Strategy ADGR8030 Talent Management ADGR8046 Organization Theory and Design Human Resources Management Specialization Requirements (All Required, 12 Credits) ADGR8030 Talent Management ADGR8053 Employment and Labor Law ADGR8055 Human Resource Development ADGR8090 Workforce Planning Project Management Specialization Requirements (All Required, 12 Credits) ADGR8110 Agile Methodologies ADGR8130 Risk Management, Quality Management ADGR8201 Agile Product Development ADGR8203 Stakeholder Management Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Specialization Requirements (All Required, 12 Credits) ADGR8301 Fundamentals/Foundations of DEI ADGR8302 Bias in the Workplace ADGR8303 Building Inclusive Organizational Cultures ADGR8304 Implementing Successful DEI Strategies Scheduling and Tuition Program courses are ordinarily scheduled starting in the late afternoons on week nights. Courses meet face-to-face and most courses are offered online. Information about tuition rates for the 2022–2023 academic year is available at the Tuition and Fees page. Students are assessed a $25 registration fee each semester they enroll in courses. Master of Science in Sports Administration (On Campus and Online) Master of Science in Sports Administration (On Campus and Online) Program Description The Master of Science in Sports Administration (MSSA) at Boston College addresses the challenges and opportunities of an industry in rapid growth. Designed to propose new thinking and broaden leadership competencies for those in sports management as well as administrators and coaches, this degree focuses on balancing the needs of the many stakeholders within an athletic system. The Sports Administration master’s degree program focuses on development and cultivation of the individual, team, and organization through the establishment of an intentional culture of trust and commitment which adheres to the broader core values of the institution. Students will learn how to guide team members into alignment and learn how to embrace and overcome setbacks through a positive focus on teamwork and collaboration. Using the Jesuit principles as the foundation for leadership and decision-making, graduates will learn how to authentically lead and bring out the best in others by espousing core values as guiding principles. Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college/university (minimum GPA 3.0) Official academic transcripts from colleges/universities where courses were completed Personal Statement Letters of Recommendation (Two) (one must be from a professor or an academic advisor) Resume Application Fee Optional—GRE (reporting code 7534) or GMAT (reporting code 44X-HX-47)— recommended for students with lower undergraduate GPA International Students—Additional Admission Requirements In addition to the general requirements listed above, international students have the following requirements: Interview (in person or online) TOEFL (minimum 90–100 range) (reporting code 3276) or IELTS (minimum 6.5–7.5 range) from within the past two years, unless they have completed their undergraduate degree at a regionally-accredited U.S. institution, or a foreign institution in which English is the medium of instruction. Detailed course-by-course transcript evaluation indicating conferral of an undergraduate degree that is equivalent to a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution (see transcript requirements for international students). Course Offerings Core Requirements (All Required, 18 Credits) ADSA7501 Introduction to Sports Management ADSA7502 Sports Marketing and Communication ADSA7503 Sports Finance ADSA7504 Sports Law and Compliance ADSA7585 Sports Leadership and Ignatian-based Ethics ADSA9001 Sports Administration Internship or ADSA 9902 Applied Sports Administration Project Electives Requirements (Selected from the Following, 12 Credits) ADSA7506 Athlete Entrepreneurship: Exploring Opportunities Created by NIL ADSA8002 Issues and Challenges Affecting the Student-Athlete ADSA8004 Diversity and Inclusion in Sports ADSA8005 Health and Wellness in Athletics and Sports Admin ADSA8007 Revenue Generation in Sports ADSA8008 Sport Psychology ADSA8010 Coaching for Performance and Student Athlete Development ADSA8012 Sports Media and Public Affairs ADSA8015 Sports Analytics ADSA8018 The Athletic Director ADSA8020 Operations and Event Management ADSA8025 Sport Security and Event Management Scheduling and Tuition Program courses are ordinarily scheduled starting at 6:00/6:30 p.m. on weeknights. Courses meet face-to-face, hybrid, and all courses are offered online. Information about tuition rates for the 2022–2023 academic year is available at the Tuition and Fees page. Students are assessed a $25 registration fee each semester they enroll in courses. Dual Master of Science in Applied Economics and Cybersecurity Policy and Governance (On Campus and Online) Dual Master of Science in Applied Economics and Cybersecurity Policy and Governance (On Campus and Online) Program Description To prepare students to work in the emerging field of Cybersecurity Policy, and to understand the data analytic component of the Applied Economics field, the Woods College offers a dual degree program in Applied Economics and Cybersecurity Policy and Governance. Application Requirements Applicants should apply to each program separately and must be independently admitted into both programs. Applicants must satisfy all requirements for admission for both programs, including necessary background courses. Students must also provide required standardized tests for the MSAE program. Additionally, the MSCY program does not accept international applicants at this time. Course Offerings MSAE Core Requirements (All Required, 12 Credits) ADEC7200 Applied Macroeconomic Theory ADEC7201 Applied Microeconomic Theory ADEC7310 Data Analysis ADEC7320 Econometrics MSCY Core Requirements (All Required, 18 Credits) ADCY6000 Cyber Ecosystem and Cybersecurity ADCY6050 Cybersecurity Policy: Privacy and Legal Requirements ADCY6300 Network and Infrastructure Security ADCY6350 Incident Response and Management ADCY6500 Organizational Effectiveness: Governance, Risk Management, and Compliancy Ethics Requirements (Choose One, 3 Credits) ADEC7500 Ethics, Economics, and Public Policy ADCY6900 Ethical Issues in Cybersecurity and the Ignatian Paradigm Applied Research Project Requirements (3 Credits) Applied Research Project would combine topics in Cybersecurity and Economics. Electives Requirements (Select Two Courses from MSAE and Two Courses from MSCY, 12 Credits) Confirm selections with MSAE and MSCY Graduate Program Directors. Dual Master of Science in Applied Economics and Applied Analytics (On Campus and Online) Dual Master of Science in Applied Economics and Applied Analytics (On Campus and Online) Program Description To prepare students to work in the field of Analytics and to understand the data analytic component of the Applied Economics field, the Woods College offers a dual degree program in Applied Economics and Applied Economics. Application Requirements Applicants should apply to each program separately and must be independently admitted into both programs. Applicants must satisfy all requirements for admission for both programs, including necessary background courses. Students must also provide required standardized tests for the MSAE and MSAA programs. Course Offerings Core Requirements (All Required, 15 Credits) ADEC7310 Data Analysis ADEC7320 Econometrics ADAN/ADEC7340 AI Algorithms I/Big Data Econometrics ADEC7460 Predictive Analytics/Forecasting ADEC7910 Software Tools for Data Analysis MSAE Core Requirements (All Required, 6 Credits) ADEC7200 Applied Macroeconomic Theory ADEC7201 Applied Microeconomic Theory MSAA Core Requirements (All Required, 6 Credits) ADAN7920 AI/ML Software Tools and Platforms ADAN7350 AI Algorithms II Ethics Requirements (Choose One, 3 Credits) ADEC7500 Ethics, Economics, and Public Policy ADAN7500 Algorithmic Ethics and Governance—from Traditional to AI/ML Applied Research Project Requirements (3 Credits) Applied Research Project would combine topics in Analytics and Economics. Electives Requirements (Select Two Courses from MSAE and Two Courses from MSAA, 12 Credits) Confirm elective selections with Graduate Program Director. Graduate Certificates Graduate Certificates The Graduate Programs at Woods College of Advancing Studies offers several graduate certificates. Each certificate requires completion of several courses that build students’ knowledge and skills that are aligned with industry needs. Prospective students may apply for a certificate program without becoming a master’s program student. For students who are or will be enrolled in one of the master’s degrees, there are several options for graduate certificates. A certificate may be taken as part of your graduate degree. The information that follows is to help you determine what courses are covered in each certificate and to determine how this will interface with your graduate degree. For more information about the graduate certificates, please contact the respective Graduate Program Directors or Graduate Student Advisors. Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college/university (minimum GPA 3.0) Official academic transcripts from colleges/universities where courses were completed Personal Statement Letter of Recommendation (One) Resume Application Fee Note: Applicants whose undergraduate GPA are below 3.0 will be considered for admission. Such applications will be considered holistically, including letter of reference, personal statement, and industry experience. For particular applicants, they may take a course within the certificate program as “non-degree student,” and if they pass the course with a B or better, their application to the certificate program may be reconsidered. International Students Applicants requiring a student visa to enroll in the graduate certificate programs are currently not eligible to apply for the graduate certificate unless they are already enrolled in a M.S. degree program. For international students who do not need a student visa, they may be considered for all the graduate certificates except for the Cybersecurity Graduate Certificates. Graduate Certificate Completion Requirements Students must receive at least a grade of C for each course credited toward the certificate. Students must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 to receive a certificate of completion. Certificate requirements should be completed within two years of initial enrollment for non-degree students and prior to degree completion for students already enrolled in a degree program; courses are permanently retained on the student record. Data Analytics Graduate Certificate (On Campus and Online) Offered by the M.S. in Applied Economics Program All four courses are offered fully online in 7-week terms and can be completed in 8 months. The courses are for-credit and can be transferred into the Boston College Master of Science in Applied Economics degree program. Students enrolling in this graduate certificate must have taken the following prerequisite course: college-level statistics. Graduate Certificate in Data Analytics Requirements (All Required, 12 Credits) ADEC7310 Data Analysis ADEC7320 Econometrics ADEC7430 Big Data Econometrics ADEC7460 Predictive Analytics/Forecasting Leadership and Administration Graduate Certificates (On Campus and Online) Offered by the M.S. in Leadership and Administration Program The courses are for-credit and can be transferred into the Boston College Master of Science in Leadership and Administration degree program. Graduate Certificate in Corporate Communications and Marketing Requirements (All Required, 12 Credits) ADGR8006 Communication in a Global Work Environment ADGR8028 Public Relations and Crisis Communication ADGR8041 Social Influence ADGR8120 Marketing Analytics Graduate Certificate in Executive Leadership and Organizational Development Requirements (All Required, 12 Credits) ADGR8010 Leader as Change Agent ADGR8015 Business Strategy ADGR8030 Talent Management ADGR8046 Organization Theory and Design Graduate Certificate in Human Resources Requirements (All Required, 12 Credits) ADGR8030 Talent Management ADGR8053 Employment and Labor Law ADGR8055 Human Resource Development ADGR8090 Workforce Planning Graduate Certificate in Project Management Requirements (All Required, 12 Credits) ADGR8110 Agile Methodologies ADGR8130 Risk Management, Quality Management ADGR8201 Agile Product Development ADGR8203 Stakeholder Management Graduate Certificate in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Requirements (All Required, 12 Credits) ADGR8301 Fundamentals/Foundations of DEI ADGR8302 Bias in the Workplace ADGR8303 Building Inclusive Organizational Cultures ADGR8304 Implementing Successful DEI Strategies Cybersecurity Graduate Certificates (On Campus and Select Courses Online) Offered by the M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance Program The courses are for-credit and can be transferred into the Boston College Master of Science in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance degree program. Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity Analytics Core Requirements (All Required, 12 Credits) ADEC7310 Data Analysis ADEC7340 Big Data Econometrics ADCY6050 Cybersecurity Policy: Legal Requirements and Privacy ADCY6350 Incident Response and Management Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy Core Requirements (All Required, 6 Credits) ADCY6050 Cybersecurity Policy: Privacy and Legal Requirements ADCY6350 Incident Response and Management Elective Requirements (Selected from the Following, 6 Credits) ADCY6925 Cybersecurity: Risk Management and Resiliency ADCY6400 Managing Cyber Risk: Mobile Devices and Social Networking ADCY6475 Security in the Cloud ADCY6600 Establishing the Business Case and Resource Allocation ADCY6450 Cyber Investigations and Digital Forensics ADCY6640 National Security: Law, Policy, and Investigations Graduate Certificate in National Security and Global Affairs Core Requirements (All Required, 6 Credits) ADCY6650 Role of Intelligence: Enabling Proactive Security ADCY6200 International Cybersecurity Elective Requirements (Selected from the Following, 6 Credits) ADCY6450 Cyber Investigations and Digital Forensics ADCY6050 Cybersecurity Policy: Privacy and Legal Requirements ADCY6640 National Security: Law, Policy, and Investigations ADCY6630 Counterintelligence: Methods and Process ADCY6620 National Security: Corporate Law and Policy Graduate Certificate in Computer Security Core Requirements (All Required, 6 Credits) ADCY6000 Cyber Ecosystem and Cybersecurity ADCY6300 Network and Infrastructure Security (Prereq: ADCY6000) Elective Requirements (Selected from the Following, 6 Credits) ADCY6450 Cyber Investigations and Digital Forensics ADCY6810 Cybersecurity: Designing Offensive/Defensive Capabilities (Prereq: ADCY6000) ADCY6475 Security in the Cloud ADCY6925 Cybersecurity: Risk Management and Resiliency ADCY6820 Cybersecurity Engineering ADCY6830 Applied Cryptography ADCY6840 Machine Learning and Data Analytics Sports Management Graduate Certificates (Online and Select Courses on Campus) Offered by the M.S. in Sports Administration Program The courses are for-credit and can be transferred into the Boston College Master of Science in Sports Administration degree program. Graduate Certificate in Sports Analytics Core Requirements (All Required, 9 Credits) ADEC7310 Data Analysis ADEC7320 Econometrics ADSA8015 Sports Analytics Elective Requirements (One Required, 3 Credits) ADSA7501 Introduction to Sports Management ADSA7502 Sports Marketing and Communication ADSA7503 Sports Finance Graduate Certificate in Student-Athlete Development Core Requirements (All Required, 9 Credits) ADSA8004 Diversity and Inclusion in Sports ADSA8002 Issues and Challenges Affecting the Student-Athlete ADSA8008 Sport Psychology Elective Requirements (One Required, 3 Credits) ADSA7506 Athlete Entrepreneurship: Opportunities Created by Name, Image, and Likeness ADSA8005 Health and Wellness in Athletics and Sports Management ADSA7504 Sports Law and Compliance Non-Degree Students Non-Degree Students Non-degree students are individuals interested in taking graduate courses for academic credit but not in applying for a degree. A brief non-degree application form must be completed and submitted online. Non-degree students may enroll in fall, spring, or summer semesters. Most graduate courses are only available to non-degree students with approval from the respective Graduate Program Director. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College