Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Classics Home About Office Hours Contact Information Faculty Bookshelf The Couch Library Stay Connected [email protected] Intranet People Academics Diversity & Inclusion News Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Recent Graduates Site Navigation Home About Office Hours Contact Information Faculty Bookshelf The Couch Library Stay Connected [email protected] Intranet People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Visiting Scholars & Fellows Graduate Students Staff Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Academics Undergraduate Program Study Abroad Research & Travel Funding Academic Prizes Departmental Undergraduate Group Brown Classical Journal History Submission Guidelines Graduate Program PhD Programs Classics Sanskrit Track Ancient History Reading List MA in Classics Graduate Student Symposia Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement Courses Classics Greek Latin Modern Greek Sanskrit Diversity & Inclusion Diversity Statements News The Occasional Classicist Stay Connected Events Annual Lectures & Events Latin Carol Celebration Past Classics Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Past Volumes Recent Graduates Class of 2020 Class of 2021 About the Classics Department The Department of Classics is one of Brown’s original academic departments, established when Brown was founded in 1764. The department offers advanced work in Ancient Greek, Latin, Sanskrit, and Modern Greek languages, literatures, history, and philosophy. In addition to the degrees of B.A. and Ph.D. in Classics, the department also offers graduate study leading to a Ph.D. in Classics & Sanskrit, Sanskrit, or (jointly with the Department of History) Ancient History. While we are committed to the traditional study of ancient Greek and Roman cultures, languages, and literature, our department also considers Classical Studies to be a collaborative discipline that encompasses a number of subjects. Students are encouraged to take courses in Art History, Archaeology, Comparative Literature, Egyptology & Assyriology, Philosophy, and several other affiliated areas. We believe these studies with overlapping interests will foster cross-disciplinary collaboration and innovation. The research interests of our faculty testify to the numerous and varied areas that comprise the study of Classics. Each year, the Classics Department hosts a series of lectures, seminars, and colloquia, offered both by our own faculty and by invited speakers and participants. In addition, the department regularly welcomes a number of international scholars who have won fellowships or short-term awards to work with Brown faculty on a formal or informal basis. Our students are very much involved in the department’s activities. The Classics Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) plans excursions, discussions, and social events for both students and faculty. Classics graduate students contribute to the department’s lively program of intellectual exchange in numerous ways, including serving as teaching fellows and teaching assistants, organizing a regular colloquium series, and planning and hosting an annual lecture. Visit our Facebook page and our Instagram account to catch a glimpse of what’s going on right now in the Classics Department at Brown. You can also subscribe to our announcements and newsletter! About Office Hours Contact Information Faculty Bookshelf The Couch Library Stay Connected [email protected] Intranet Department of Classics Department of Classics Brown University Box 1856 48 College Street Providence, RI 02912-1856 Phone: 401-863-1267 Fax: 401-863-7484 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top