Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit Specialized Masters Only at Miami: earn your master’s degree in less than a year with our specialized programs that give you an edge. Home Graduate Specialized Masters Make the Choice for Your Career Leverage your passion to get ahead. Gain new skills in your area of interest to supercharge your career potential. You’ll be more valuable to organizations and more competitive in the marketplace. Choose from a suite of programs focused on specific career paths. Most of these full-time programs can be completed in less than a year. Miami Herbert Business School undergraduates who go straight into these programs can spend one extra year in Miami for a master’s degree and a competitive advantage. Degree Options Accountancy (STEM-Designated) Our STEM-designated Master of Science in Accountancy program focuses on financial and managerial accounting, auditing, and systems to build the expertise you need to accelerate your career. The program offers two tracks: Assurance, for students entering public accounting, and Corporate, for students planning careers as controllers, CFOs, or financial analysts. Master of Science in Accountancy Business Analytics (STEM-designated) The Master of Science in Business Analytics program is an intensive experience that will arm you with the skills necessary to understand, manage, and use big data in a business context. Learn how to turn abstract data into meaningful insights to predict consumer behavior and forecast revenue and expenses for virtually any business model and any industry. Master of Science in Business Analytics Finance (STEM-Designated) With more than 60 international banks and 100 alternative investment companies, Miami is the second-largest financial hub in the country. In our Master of Science in Finance program, you can gain the knowledge and confidence to make critical decisions for any organization and join the financial leaders of the future. Master of Science in Finance Health Administration Earn your Master of Health Administration degree at Miami Herbert Business School to position yourself as a leader in the rapidly changing health care industry and make a positive impact. Hone your skills in business fundamentals, gain knowledge in industry-specific areas, and apply what you learn through an off-site internship experience. Master of Health Administration International Business As the most international city in the U.S., Miami is a dynamic business hub with a rich multicultural professional community. Through our Master in International Business program, you will develop a global business mindset and gain first-hand exposure to global markets, preparing you to implement sustainable, integrated strategies within multinational corporations in any industry. Master in International Business Leadership Develop the interpersonal and management skills you need to influence others and lead effectively in today's complex workplace. Designed for working professionals currently in managerial roles, the Master of Science in Leadership allows you to immediately apply the concepts you learn to strengthen your leadership style and spearhead organizational change. Master of Science in Leadership Sustainable Business (STEM-designated) Be a force for good from inside a company with the expertise you develop in the Master of Science in Sustainable Business program. Our unique interdisciplinary approach unites business, science, theory, and practice to prepare you to lead in this fast-growing field. Make a positive impact on the environment and society while increasing the long-term value of your business. Master of Science in Sustainable Business Taxation (STEM-designated) Develop expertise in federal taxation, including tax research, tax compliance, and tax planning, through the Master of Science in Taxation program. Prepare for careers requiring specialized tax knowledge in public accounting, private industry, or government. Master of Science in Taxation The Miami Difference The city of Miami is a thriving gateway between the United States, Latin America, Europe, and the Caribbean. #1 Miami has been ranked the #1 most international city in the U.S. by the U.S. Census Bureau. 1,400 Miami serves as the headquarters of Latin American operations for more than 1,400 multinational corporations. 100 Miami is home to a diverse group of people from over 100 countries. The Miami Experience Miami Herbert Business School’s interdisciplinary approach to graduate education in the business and cultural vibrancy of Miami immerses you within the exchange of ideas of a diverse student and faculty community and strengthens a global mindset for today’s evolving marketplace. Explore the city, student groups, experiential learning opportunities, and networking events for a look at the many resources and dimensions to your graduate education. Explore the Graduate Experience Financial Aid and Scholarships A degree from Miami Herbert Business School is an investment that will pay dividends for years to come. We’re committed to helping you afford this investment. Students typically fund their studies through a combination of our merit-based scholarships, external scholarships and grants, federal and private loans, and personal savings. See Financing Options Double 'Cane Scholars Program If you are completing your undergraduate studies at the University of Miami in the upcoming fall or spring semester and are interested in a future in business, the Double ‘Cane Scholars Program is designed for you. Learn More Start Your Miami Journey Apply Request Information Visit Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback