Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Salina About From the Dean Faculty & Staff Salina Facilities Our Community Contact Information Make a Gift Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Salina Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Salina Academics Academics Premedical Programs MD Program Admission & Aid Curriculum Lukert Society Student and Faculty Awards Standardized Patient Program Student Affairs Student Affairs Policies and Procedures Counseling and Support Services Health Care for Students About School of Medicine Salina About About From the Dean Faculty & Staff Salina Facilities Our Community Contact Information Make a Gift About From the Dean The University of Kansas School of Medicine-Salina (KUSOM-Salina) campus was started in 2011 to help address the critical need for more physicians in Kansas, particularly across rural areas. It remains one of the smallest four-year medical education sites in the country. Salina is one of the smallest communities in North America to host a four-year medical degree granting campus. KUSOM-Salina moved to the expanded, modern, high-tech facilities in the new Health Education Center in June 2018. Now, both the KU Schools of Medicine and Nursing train students in this facility. This modern educational setting was possible due to the tremendous support of the Salina Regional Health Center, the Salina Health Education Foundation, Salina Greater Community Foundation, KU Endowment and many individual contributors who support our mission. The support of local physicians and clinics, and the leadership of the KU Medical Center in Kansas City has also been critical to the success of this campus. The curriculum on the Salina campus is identical to our Kansas City and Wichita counterparts. Many of the foundational science lectures during the first two years of medical school are delivered by interactive televideo presentations or by podcasts from the main campus in Kansas City. Anatomy labs, simulation exercises, problem-based learning sessions and multiple small group clinical case discussions are conducted on campus in Salina and led by Salina faculty. We are fortunate to have a group of local physicians from various specialties who invest considerable time and energy in furthering our students' education. In our curriculum, foundational science instruction is enriched by ample clinical experiences. During the third and fourth years of the program - the clinical years - medical students work with a talented group of experienced community physicians. Students witness the quality of care being delivered in rural Kansas and the quality of life afforded by living in these communities. Since it began, KUSOM-Salina has admitted 64 students and graduated five classes (39 graduates) with more than 30 graduates starting a primary care residency. The first two graduating classes have completed their primary care residencies and established practice. To date, sixty-nine percent of those are in primary care, 63 percent returned to practice in Kansas, and 50 percent of them are in rural Kansas. Enrollment at KUSOM-Salina is not limited to students from rural communities or only those intending on pursuing primary care specialties. Former graduates are currently training in pathology, surgery, obstetrics, gynecology and internal medicine specialties. Our KUSOM-Salina faculty wants motivated, outgoing students who want a quality medical education in a non-metropolitan environment. The academic performance of our students is equivalent to that of students on the Kansas City or Wichita campuses. Students on the Salina campus will receive extraordinary attention because of the small class size. They will also be exposed to community providers and clinical clerkship directors from their first year through graduation. Their clinical experiences are typically one-on-one or shared with a family medicine resident from Salina's Smoky Hill Family Medicine Residency program. We are very proud of all our students, past and present, and of all the accomplishments of the school to date. We appreciate the support of the community, providers, and others who share our mission and we will continue to strive for excellence in medical education. Robert Moser, MD Dean, KU School of Medicine-Salina KU School of Medicine-Salina KU School of Medicine-Salina Health Education Center 138 N. Santa Fe Salina, KS 67401 Phone: 785-822-0400 KU School of Medicine-Salina Facebook page Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.