Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Sexual Harassment Policies Get Help Get Help Medical care Confidential help Academic and campus help Help for faculty and staff How faculty and staff can help students Report Report Report to police Report to SMU Report anonymously Report retaliation Protective orders Learn More Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Get involved Get involved Education and prevention Awareness tips Request a presentation Resources ☰ Sexual Harassment Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy prohibits sexual harassment Sexual harassment is prohibited by SMU’s Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy, and the federal law Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. SMU’s Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy is online in the University Policy Manual, smu.edu/policy, and on the Office of Institutional Access and Equity website, smu.edu/iae. The Policy is reviewed and approved each biennium by the SMU Board of Trustees. Sexual harassment includes sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking. Sexual harassment will not be tolerated in the SMU community. Learn more about sexual harassment definitions and examples, including sexual assault and consent. Students found responsible for sexual harassment face disciplinary sanctions up to and including expulsion from the University. How to report sexual harassment to SMU and file a complaint under the Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy As defined by the U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities that receive federal financial assistance, including SMU. Title IX requires universities and colleges to investigate reports of sexual harassment and to provide internal grievance procedures. These procedures offer students reporting sexual assault and other acts of sexual violence an avenue for holding violators accountable for their actions, in addition to the criminal process. Title IX also requires the University to appoint a Title IX Coordinator. SMU’s Title IX Coordinator resides in the Office of Institutional Access and Equity, which develops and manages University policies, procedures and programs of equal opportunity, diversity and affirmative action. The Office serves SMU students, employees, applicants and visitors. SMU’s prohibition against discrimination, including on the basis of sex, includes any employment practice, education program or educational activity. SMU’s Title IX Coordinator and Deputy Coordinators are available to assist students who have questions or concerns regarding sexual harassment or who wish to file an internal complaint under the University’s Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy. The Coordinator and Deputies also can provide students with information about SMU and community resources. Please feel free to contact any of the following SMU employees for assistance. Deputies serve campus-wide; their departments and schools are listed for informational purposes only. SMU Title IX Coordinator Samantha Thomas, Office of Institutional Access and Equity, 214-768-3601 or email thomassa@smu.edu SMU Deputy Title IX Coordinators Denise Gauthier , Office of Institutional Access and Equity, 214-768-3601 or email dgauthier@smu.edu Jasper Chieng, Office of Institutional Access and Equity, 214-768-3601 or email jchieng@smu.edu Bonnie Hainline, Intramurals/Sport Clubs, Student Affairs, 214-768-3367 or email bhainline@smu.edu Alan Itkin, Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies, 214-768-4202 or email aitkin@smu.edu Susan Vollmerhausen, Athletics, 214-768-4963 or email vollmerhause@smu.edu Steve Yeager, Dedman School of Law, 214-768-4178 or email syeager@smu.edu Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Resources In case of emergency or for criminal reporting, please call SMU Police, 214-768-3333, or pick up a blue-light phone on campus. Confidential Resources SMU Counseling Services 214-768-2277 SMU Chaplain’s Office 214-768-4502 Additional SMU resources SMU Title IX Coordinator (for internal grievance information and reporting) 214-768-3601 Office of Student Advocacy & Support 214-768-4512 Anonymous reporting 214-768-2TIP (2847) Community resources Dallas Area Rape Crisis Center (DARCC) 972-641-7273 Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) Program 214-345-6203 Learn more about resources. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share