Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] Students & Researchers Employers About Us» Carleton Lab's Mission Statement Directory of Laboratories Employment Past Leadership People: Lab Management People: Lab Assistants People: Researchers How to Find Us Facilities» Centrifuge Laboratory Concrete Materials Laboratory Donald M. Burmister Soil Mechanics Laboratory Eugene Mindlin Laboratory for Structural Deterioration Research Heffner Laboratory for Hydrologic Research Library Machine Shop Sensing, Monitoring, and Robotics Technology (SMaRT) Laboratory Shake Table Laboratory Suspension Bridge Cable Monitoring Sustainable Engineering & Materials Laboratory (SEML) Safety & Access» How to Apply for Access Safety Training Shared Equipment» Universal Testing Machines Materials Characterization Microscopy & Imaging Environmental Testing & Aging Structural Dynamics & Health Monitoring Sample Preparation Faculty Equipment Teaching» Lab Classes Student Clubs Teaching Equiment Testing» Capabilities Field-Testing Request a Quote News Columbia Engineering Department of Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Columbia Nano Initiative Robert A. W. Carleton Strength of Materials Laboratory Home > Facilities Centrifuge Laboratory Centrifuge Laboratory Concrete Materials Laboratory Donald M. Burmister Soil Mechanics Laboratory Eugene Mindlin Laboratory for Structural Deterioration Research Heffner Laboratory for Hydrologic Research Library Machine Shop Sensing, Monitoring, and Robotics Technology (SMaRT) Laboratory Shake Table Laboratory Suspension Bridge Cable Monitoring Sustainable Engineering & Materials Laboratory (SEML) Research activities by applying centrifuge modeling techniques at Columbia University can be traced back to early 1930s when Philip B. Bucky, a professor of the School of Mines, proposed the centrifuge modeling concept, and published his works on the “Use of Models for the Study of Mining Problems” in 1931 and additional papers in 1934 and 1935. It was recognized as the first challenge in the world to use centrifuge modeling techniques for solving geotechnical engineering problems. Since then, this technology has been developed by other universities and research institutes in the United States, Japan, Russia, and Europe. Today, more than one hundred geo-centrifuges are in operation worldwide. Decades after Prof. Bucky’s first trial, the centrifuge came back to Columbia University. In 2004, Carleton Laboratory installed a 200 g centrifuge, which was donated by the Kajima Corporation, the largest contractor in Japan. With this new piece of equipment, Carleton Laboratory once again became a top-tier centrifuge research laboratory, especially in terms of model size and capacity. Principles of Centrifuge Modeling By comparing the behavior of a structure with that of a small scale model, made of the same materials as its prototype, a principle of similitude may be established by the laws of mechanics, as was done in the paper by Philip B. Bucky, “Use of Models for the Study of Mining Problems” (Technical Publication 425, American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers). The principle states that if in the model the force of gravity on each part can be increased in the same proportion as the linear scale is decreased, then the unit stresses at similar points in the model and prototype will be the same, and the displacement or deflection of any point in the model will represent to scale the displacement of the corresponding point in the prototype. The effect of an increase in gravity may be obtained by substituting a centrifugal for the gravitational field, i.e., placing the model in a suitable designed centrifugal machine, or centrifuge. (1) P. B. Bucky, A. G. Solakian and L. S. Baldin (1935) "Centrifugal Method of Testing Models." Civil Engineering, 5(5), 287-290. Click here for more details about the centrifuge facility. For further information contact Hoe Ling at +1.212.854.1203. Ongoing Research Projects Slope stability problems under rain fall and earthquake loading conditions Long term consolidation and settlement problems of soft clay ground Simulation of scouring of bridge piers Stability of mountain tunnel under excavation Faculty & Staff Prof. Hoe Ling Liming Li, Ph.D. 500 W. 120th Steet #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Columbia Engineering Columbia University