Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Emergency Management » Emergency Plans Set Navigation title in component Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Emergency Plans The Emergency Management staff have prepared plans for emergency situations. Below, you will find the Emergency Operations Plan, building emergency plans, the emergency closing and cancellation policy and weather and natural disaster plans. UC Emergency Operations Plan right arrow down arrow The University of Cincinnati Emergency Operations Plan provides the basis for how the university approaches problems regarding threats or any type of disaster. The plan identifies the responsibilities, functions, operational procedures and working relationship among the various departments, outside governmental entities and private support groups. The document is divided into four main sections: Basic plan - Overview of the university's approach to emergency management. Functional Annexes - Specific information and direction on operations and general topics during any type of emergency condition. Hazard-specific annexes - Specific disaster situations that could affect the university. Resource annexes - List and description of resource organizations and equipment that are available during a disaster situation. This document also included the universities procedures for pandemics and civil disturbances. To read the full document, please use the following link: Emergency Operations Plan. Building Emergency Plans right arrow down arrow Uptown West Campus 2925 Campus Green Drive 60 West Charlton Baldwin Blegen Library Braunstein Calhoun Garage Calhoun Hall Campus Recreation Center Residence Hall Campus Recreation Center-Pending Carl H. Lindner College of Business CCM Complex Clifton Court Pavilion College of Arts and Design College of Law Commons Edge North and South Crosley Tower Dabney Hall Daniels Hall Dieterle Vocal Arts Center Edwards 1 and 2 Edwards 3 and 4 Engineering Research Center Building French West Geology-Physics Building Langsam Library Lindner Center MainStreet Express-Pending Marian Spencer Hall Market on Main-Pending McMicken Hall Memorial Hall Morgens Hall Old Chemistry Rhodes Hall Rieveschl Hall Schneider Hall Scioto Hall Siddall Hall Steger Student Life Center Stratford Complex Swift Hall Tangeman University Center Teachers-Dyer Turner Hall University Pavilion Van Wormer Zimmer Hall Uptown East/Medical Campus Cardiovascular Research Center East Utility Plant French East Health Science Building Hoxworth Center (Floors 4 & 5) - Pending Kettering Lab Complex Kingsgate Conference Center - Pending Kowalewski Hall Logan Hall Medical Sciences Building, CARE/Crawley and Receiving Procter Hall Surgical Research Center University Hall Vontz Center Off-Campus Housing Bellevue Gardens University Park Apartments Branch Campuses Blue Ash Clermont UC East Reading Campus Off-Campus Facilities 1819 Innovation Hub Center Hill Facility Central Receiving Facility Central Utility Facility Fishwick Facility Victory Parkway Leased Properties 101 E. Corry University Square Emergency Closing & Cancellation Policy right arrow down arrow The University of Cincinnati is always officially open. During periods of severe inclement weather, public emergency or other crisis, the Director of Public Safety or a designated cabinet officer of the university may issue an announcement of campus status as appropriate to the situation on the university electronic mail system and through local media outlets. These campus announcements may: Specify that the university classes, with the exception of the College of Medicine, are canceled until or after a specific time or for an entire day. Specify that all events and programs, including both university and non-university events held in university facilities, are canceled. Specify that certain university offices and facilities are closed, except for essential offices that never close under any circumstances, which are identified in rule 3361:30-16-01 of the Administrative Code. For more detailed information, please view the Emergency Campus Closure document. Weather & Natural Disasters right arrow down arrow UC uses a severe weather warning system that allows Public Safety to make voice announcements inside buildings when severe weather is imminent. This system is used in conjunction with Hamilton County's siren warning system. The sirens and campus system are activated for severe weather warnings only (when severe weather has developed in the area). Winter Weather Winter Weather Closure Policy In the event of a severe winter storm that could affect student and/or employee access to the university, the Director of Public Safety will decide whether a closure, class cancellation or delay will be declared due to the weather conditions. Individual campuses, such as the Medical campus, Blue Ash campus and Clermont campus, may have specific concerns or issues that need to be addresses separately from Uptown campus. To learn more, please read the full document. Winter Weather Plan The city of Cincinnati is in a region that has been subjected to severe winter weather in the past. The winter weather plan establishes the proper emergency response action following a severe winter storm. To learn more, please read the full document. Tornado Severe weather can strike at any time. Being prepared and having advance notice that a tornado is approaching your area can give you the critical time needed to move to a place with better protection. Below you will find the university's tornado procedures, severe weather locations for university campus buildings and a tornado preparedness documents. Tornado Procedures Tornado Preparedness (PDF) Weather - Tornado Locations Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top