Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search News 2022 Graduation Speaker: Linda Thomas-Greenfield News When Policy is Personal Page A View from the Class: Toumai Kafri MIA '22 News Ending Hunger, Fostering Peace News SIPA Expands STEM Programs You are here Home Alumni You are here Home You are here Home Alumni SIPA alumni are part of a powerful global network of more than 24,000 alumni in over 160 countries. The Office of Alumni Affairs works in partnership with the SIPA Alumni Association to develop events and opportunities that connect SIPA alumni to each other and to the School to strengthen this unique global community. Learn more about the ways you can connect with SIPA and the alumni community. GET INVOLVED Contact us to let us know how you would like to get involved. We look forward to hearing from you! SIPA Alumni Association The SIPA Alumni Association is made up of engaged alumni volunteers who work in partnership with SIPA on initiatives including the annual Alumni Day, Class Reunions, the Admissions Ambassadors program and career activities for students and alumni. The Alumni Association also advises SIPA on issues concerning alumni. Learn more and contact members of the Alumni Association Board Admissions Ambassadors Alumni play a vital role in SIPA’s recruitment efforts by sharing their SIPA experience with prospective and admitted students as Admissions Ambassadors. Join us to share the value of your SIPA degree and professional experience with the next class of SIPA students. Volunteer opportunities vary during the recruitment cycle and include scheduled events in specific cities. Learn more about becoming an Admissions Ambassador Career Volunteers SIPA’s graduates are making an impact across the globe as leaders in government, private sector and non-governmental organizations. There are many ways SIPA alumni can get involved in supporting the professional development of SIPA students including speaking on a career panel, posting an internship or job, arranging for an employer information session, sponsoring a capstone project or attending an alumni-student networking reception. Learn more about these opportunities Regional SIPA Communities Join our effort to build regional SIPA communities around the world. Regional Alumni Ambassadors are a network of dedicated volunteers who serve as points of contact for SIPA and CAA alumni activities around the world. Meet and contact SIPA’s Regional Alumni Ambassadors SIPA Alumni Awards 2022 The SIPA Alumni Association will present this year’s awards on Alumni Day, Saturday, April 30, 2022. Learn more SIPA DEI Alumni-Student Mentoring Initiative As part of SIPA’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) efforts, the School has launched the SIPA Alumni-Student Mentoring Initiative as a pilot program during the 2021-22 academic year. Learn more Make a Gift Make an Online Gift Explore Other Ways to Give SIPA Office of Alumni Affairs School of International and Public Affairs 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 [email protected] 212-854-8598 Connect with SIPA Update your Profile Class Notes: Share Your Story Alumni Resources SIPA's Career Advancement Center (CAC) Columbia Alumni Association (CAA) CAA Regional Clubs Columbia University e-mail SIPA LinkedIn Alumni/Student Network SIPA_Magazine-2021_Cover_square.png Alumni Stories May 11, 2022 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas Lorie K. Logan MPA ’99 Named President and CEO Of Dallas Fed She will begin her new role on August 22. May 9, 2022 SIPA Alumni Day Returns with Inaugural Awards, Panel on Climate Sumant Sinha MIA ’92 and Nicole Van Der Tuin MPA ’12 are honored for their achievements, contributions to their communities, and service to SIPA. May 6, 2022 Karine Jean-Pierre MPA ’03 Will Become White House Press Secretary The SIPA graduate will be the first Black person and first out LGBTQ person in the role. February 1, 2022 Black History Month: Celebrating SIPA Alumni and Their Impact on the World For 75 years, SIPA graduates have made an impact in international affairs, public policy, and related fields. In recognition of Black History Month, we wish to express our pride in the achievements... All Alumni Profiles All Alumni News Share This Spotlight Alumni Spotlight SIPA’s most valuable resource were the students and faculty. It’s such a rich network. This is a distinct advantage of being a Columbia alumna. Jessica Prata MPA 12 Assistant Vice President for Environmental Stewardship Columbia University Full Profile Ella Watson-Stryker Video of Ella Watson-Stryker Alumni Spotlight You can work really hard and sometimes it’s not enough, but we have to keep trying because if we’re not trying, then no one else will. Ella Watson-Stryker MIA 09 Humanitarian Representative Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) Full Profile Eric Garcetti Video of Eric Garcetti Alumni Spotlight I can bring that International Affairs knowledge that I learned at SIPA and really apply it in a global setting to my city. Eric Garcetti MIA 95 Mayor City of Los Angeles Full Profile Alum MIA - Joan Spero Video of Alum MIA - Joan Spero Alumni Spotlight SIPA gave me the tools to operate in many different professional backgrounds. Joan Spero MIA 68 Senior Research Scholar Alumni Ella Watson-Stryker Alumni Eric Garcetti Alumni Alum MIA - Joan Spero Alumni Alumni Spotlight Studying at SIPA and living in NY, helped me understand the complex relationship between politics, economics, and finance. Jitka Grundmanova Danini MIA 13 ICG Executive Office Lead Citi Full Profile Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216