× Please sign in You need to log in to use the bookmarking feature. Sign In Harvard Business School Sign in to Baker Library Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Search Find Services Ask Browse Databases Collections & Archives Guides Exhibits Find Books, Articles & More More Places HOLLIS Catalog Harvard Library Working Knowledge Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program See all... Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Staff Visiting Researchers Ask Us Ask a Question Fast Answers Policies Staff Directory How Do I... Request HBS Cases Plan A Visit Manage My Data Get Teaching Support Baker Library Databases Ask Us Special Collections Fast Answers All Services Hours Plan Your Visit Exhibits Hollis Working Knowledge HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Search Search Search Home Find Collections & Archives Collections & Archives Baker Library is unique among business school libraries worldwide for its extraordinarily comprehensive, large, and diverse collections. The Library's physical collections include approximately 600,000 printed volumes, 186,000 annual reports, over 1 million microform items, 48,000 linear feet of archives and manuscripts, and over 32,000 photographs. Baker subscribes to nearly 4,000 serial and periodical titles and over 100 electronic resources. Within Special Collections, Baker Library holds the most extensive collection of archives and rare books in the world in the fields of business and economic history. Special Collections American Business History - Business Manuscripts Historic Industry & Trade Literature European Economic History & Philosophy - Kress Collection Corporate Reports Intellectual Capital - HBS Faculty Research Contemporary Corporate Archives HBS History Photographs & Prints Creating Emerging Markets Interviews The HBS Creating Emerging Markets project interviews impactful business leaders active in countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America. Visit the Emerging Markets Interviews page to learn more. HBS Art Collection & Program The HBS Art Collection & Program comprises over 1,000 original works and serves as a key teaching and learning resource for the HBS community. To learn more visit the HBS Art Collection &Program page or contact Special Collections. Bleichroeder Collection The Bleichroeder Collection includes more than 1,000 woodcuts, engravings, etchings, and lithographs ranging in date from the 16th to the 19th century. Visit the Coin & Conscience exhibit to learn more. HBS Entrepreneurs Collection In 2001, Harvard Business School initiated a two-year oral history project to capture the stories of some of the most significant entrepreneurs of the time. Visit the HBS Entrepreneurs Collection site to learn more. Colonial North America at Harvard Library Colonial North America at Harvard Library provides access to remarkable and wide-ranging materials digitized as part of an ongoing, multi-year project to make all known archival and manuscript materials in the Harvard Library that relate to 17th- and 18th-century North America available online. Back to top Today's HoursAll Hours Connect with Baker Map & Contacts Know Before You Go Library Spaces Staff Directory About the Library B4B Product Catalog Books@Baker Annual Reports Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College.