Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Department of Mathematics Undergraduate Research Opportunities Research with Math Faculty If you are interested in the opportunity to do research with faculty member, contact individual faculty to inquire on a possible research project. Independent Study (MATH 1970) The Brown math department offers an "independent study" or "honors conference" course. This course allows you to study material that may not be offered in a standard course, at your own pace. A professor of your choice will advise you and grade your work. It is best to approach the professor you'd like to advise your independent study the semester before you want to take the course. You should discuss your goals for the course, what material or textbooks you'd like to use, and what the professor's expectations. [email protected] A summer research program for undergraduate students at ICERM in Providence. Research outside of Brown Many universities across the US offer REUs (Research Experiences for Undergraduates) during the summer. The American Mathematical Society maintains a list of REUs that is updated regularly. CareerLAB BrownConnect SPRINT Awards are a family of programs that support experiential learning by providing students with access to funding and opportunities both on campus and around the world. Internships Many companies and national labs offer internship opportunities for undergraduate students. SIAM maintains a vast list of internship and job opportunities. Also in Department of Mathematics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Research Seminars Courses Events Positions Available Diversity & Inclusion Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mathematics Brown University Box 1917 151 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2708 Fax: 401-863-9013 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat