Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM Apply Request More Info Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Music in Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music Advance your musical career with a Master of Music (MM) in Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. This 30-credit graduate program integrates rigorous academics and musical performance to prepare you for professional work as a collaborative pianist. The Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM is fully accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music. Highlights of the curriculum include collaborative and chamber music coaching with renowned faculty members; numerous opportunities for performances on and off campus, including performances with large ensembles such as choirs, new music groups, orchestras and wind ensembles; opportunities to explore performance practice using the college’s historical keyboard collection; and two weekly piano lessons focused on both collaborative and solo repertoire. Students have the option to complete the program on a full- or part-time basis, depending on their personal needs. All courses takes place on Temple’s Main Campus. In addition to required courses, all entering students are required to take Diagnostic Examinations in aural skills, counterpoint, harmony and music history prior to the first term. The culminating event in the program is a final oral or written project that addresses several topics in music composition, history, performance and technique. Students who successfully complete the program have the skills and experience necessary to launch their professional career as collaborative pianists and pursue doctoral studies. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover keyboard studies faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer keyboard studies degree programs. Classes & Curriculum Required courses include Baroque Keyboard Performance Practice, Classical Keyboard Performance Practice, Instrumental Ensemble, Piano for Accompanying and Chamber Music Majors, Recital Accompanying, and Studio Accompanying. Learn more about the program’s requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Collaborative Piano and Opera Coaching MM Harpsichord Performance MM Historical Keyboard Performance DMA Music MA Music MS Music PhD Music Composition MM Music Education MM Music Education PhD Music History MM Piano Pedagogy MM Piano Performance MM Piano Performance DMA Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. ConTemplum hosts numerous concerts, forums and seminars to foster a community of musicians who are dedicated to exploring contemporary musical ideas and performing new compositions. Music Teachers National Association offers a vast educational network of conferences, continuing education opportunities and small business resources to support the enrichment and professionalism of music teachers. OWLchestra Community Orchestra is a community string orchestra composed of students and community members who want to play music together in a low-stress environment. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Charles Abramovic, professor in the Keyboard Department, is the faculty program contact for the Master of Music in Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music. Phone: 215-204-7388 Email: charles.abramovic@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-CPCM-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info