Skip to main content Jump to main navigation Search content University of Pennsylvania | Penn University Life Search query Search Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search VPUL Home Activities Fraternity and Sorority Life Naval ROTC Office of Student Affairs Platt Student Performing Arts House VPUL Events Calendar Cultural Centers Greenfield Intercultural Center La Casa Latina LGBTC Center Makuu The Black Cultural Center Pan-Asian American Community House Penn Women Center Student Supports Career Services First Generation Low Income Program Penn Violence Prevention Student Affairs Leadership Team Student Intervention Services Weingarten Learning Resource Center Student Disabilities Services Office of Learning Resources Tutoring Center About Leadership Team Give to University Life Strategic Priorities VPUL Facilities at Perelman Quadrangle VPUL Technology Services Resources Philadelphia Latinx Resources Scholarships Prospective Students Student Services Programs Latinx Heritage Month Familias Mentorship Program Cafe Con Leche Dialogue Series Latinx Student Groups About Us Contact Us Our Team Visit La Casa History LACASA Home Bienvenidos a La Casa Latina La Casa Latina promotes greater awareness of Latinx issues, culture, and identity at Penn. La Casa Latina works closely with the Penn community to offer a supportive environment where all students are welcomed and engaged in programs, events, and dialogues that address important issues affecting Latinxs/Hispanics locally, nationally, and internationally. La Casa Latina's Events Calendar We sponsor several events throughout the year that highlight issues of Latino and Hispanic issues, including promoting Latinx writers, activists, artists and political and professional leaders. These include conferences, trainings, and workshops, with topics ranging from restorative justice to healthy relationships. Major sponsored events, co-produced with student groups, include the March of Flags and Latinx Heritage Month. Explore Events Resources Programs About Us Lighting Talks Do you have questions about navigating social and academic life at Penn? Need help choosing a major? Are you curious about different career paths? Or want to get to know more about graduate students and faculty across campus? La Casa Latina will be regularly hosting “lightning talks” that address the above questions and many more. These short 15-to-20-minute conversations, led by our student workers, will tackle questions that our community is interested in. Have an idea for a lightning talk or want to participate? Fill out the Lighting Talks google form Email Krista Cortes with questions Lightning Talk featuring Kimberly Cardenas, PhD Candidate, Department of Political Science and Adriana Gonzalez-Camarena, Undergraduate Student Lightning Talk featuring Dr. Krista Cortes, Director of La Casa Latina and Lesly Villanueva, Undergraduate Student La Casa News Penn Student Magazine La Vida Read More » October 28, 2021 Krista Cortes centers Blackness and celebrates the multiplicity inherent in ‘Latinidades.’ Read More » October 27, 2021 Krista L. Cortes: New Director for The Center for Hispanic Excellence: La Casa Latina Read More » February 10, 2021 Make a Gift! La Casa Latina’s programming is made possible by University funding and donations from people like you. Make a Gift Subscribe to our Newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram Envelope Mobile-alt Primary Footer Athletics Diversity Health & Wellness Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Resources University Life Calendar Student Jobs Help Contact Us Maps Parking University of Pennsylvania Address Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-6081 Legal Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset