Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home News Columbia Health Releases its 2020-21 Annual Report Columbia Health Releases its 2020-21 Annual Report Progressing on our core mission to advance the well-being of the University community and the personal and academic success of students. By Columbia Health April 25, 2022 Interactive Annual Report View in full screen Download an accessible version Columbia Health has kept laser-focused on its core mission to support the health and well-being of the Columbia community and is energized to realize its vision of integrated, accessible, quality services and community programs to cultivate best possible and enduring outcomes while living, working, and learning at Columbia University. Pandemic Response Leadership Columbia Health played a pivotal role in developing and implementing the University’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The organization worked closely with key campus partners to refine and advise on policy, create education materials, and provide timely information to community members. Columbia Health also began operating the COVID-19 Testing Center and Contact Tracing Program on the Morningside campus. Innovative Service Delivery All Units of Columbia Health remained available for students whether in-person or virtually, delivering core services with no downtime. The team adjusted hours of operation, introduced new technologies, provided programs and services in novel ways, and secured new partnerships to ensure access to support, wherever students may be. Partnerships and Collaboration Columbia Health partnered with University leadership and campus partners on all aspects of the pandemic response. The organization also continued to collaborate with faculty and student-facing staff to administer public health requirements, discuss evolving student needs, and address various barriers that come from online-only learning. Columbia Health also tapped the power of peer intelligence and influence through student consultation and ambassador training. Student-Centered, Inclusive Care Amid the pandemic, Columbia Health continued to drive innovation and conversation around advancing well-being on campus. The organization provided support spaces and programs designed to meet timely distresses and implemented technologies, training, and insurance benefits to advance gender-inclusivity in care. The organization engaged stakeholders on a well-being framework to begin cultivating a campus environment that promotes well-being. Columbia Health also looked inward, launching working groups to advance health equity and racial justice within the organization, its services, and how it interacts with the broader community. Data-Driven Care to Advance College Health Columbia Health also continued to engage in rigorous and integrative research to inform its efforts in providing responsive care. Staff collected ongoing direct service feedback, conducted a needs assessment, and managed multiple IRB research protocols while delivering core services to students. An Independent Columbia Health On January 25, 2021, President Lee C. Bollinger announced that Columbia Health would be a standalone department at the University, reporting directly to the Office of the President. This elevation solidifies the institutional recognition that a focus on health promotes personal and academic success for every member of the Columbia community Read the full report: View in full screen. News May 23, 2022 Commencement Honors for Columbia Health SVP, Dr. Melanie Bernitz April 25, 2022 Columbia Health Releases its 2020-21 Annual Report April 25, 2022 Dr. Michael McNeil, Chief of Administration for Columbia Health, included in Inside HigherEd article March 21, 2022 Our opposition to ongoing efforts to harm the lives and well-being of trans and queer people March 16, 2022 Making decisions about your well-being amid changing COVID-19 public health guidance Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close