Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information for: Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Diversity & Inclusion History & Mission Facts & Figures Events News & Announcements Contact Related Links Advising Maps & Directions FAQs Admission Overview How to Apply Why Choose Woods? Tuition & Aid Visit Alumni Tuition Discount Related Links Articulation Agreements Course Schedule & Registration Process Events Facts & Figures Undergraduate Overview Bachelor's Degree Applied Liberal Arts (ALA) Business Communication Corporate Systems Criminal and Social Justice Economics English Concentration (ALA) History Concentration (ALA) Information Systems Interdisciplinary Studies Concentration (ALA) Natural Sciences Philosophy Concentration (ALA) Political Science Concentration (ALA) Psychology Sociology Concentration (ALA) Sustainability Certificate Related Links Advising BC Summer Session Course Schedule & Registration Process Nondegree Students Visiting Students Resources for Current Students Woods Academic Calendar Graduate Overview Master's Programs M.S. in Applied Analytics M.S. in Applied Economics Articulation Agreements MSAE Advisory Board M.S. in Applied Economics & Cybersecurity Policy & Governance Master of Healthcare Administration M.S. in Leadership & Administration M.S. in Sports Administration Certificates Corporate Communications and Marketing Online Certificate in Data Analytics Executive Leadership and Organizational Development Human Resources Management Project Management Cybersecurity Graduate Certificates Cybersecurity Analytics Sports Analytics Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Related Links Academic Policies BC Summer Session Executive Education Nondegree Students Registration Process Student Life Woods Academic Calendar Community Overview Jesuit Values Advising Woods College Graduation Process Living in Boston BC Resources Related Links Campus Life Career Center Events Manresa Experience Veterans Experience Course Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Related Links Academic Calendar Woods Faculty Resources Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Woods College site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Impact the Future of Healthcare Home Graduate Master's Programs Master of Healthcare Administration Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA) Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA) The Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA) degree at Boston College prepares ethical leaders to drive organizational change within the rapidly transforming health ecosystem. The online program addresses contemporary challenges and emerging trends in healthcare innovation through a societal perspective aligned with Boston College's values of social justice. Apply Inquire At a Glance Required courses 12 required courses, 7-week format Students typically complete the degree in 1–2 years. Program flexibility Full- or part-time, online, and asynchronous Cost $1,318 per credit with a total of 46 credits required (Academic Year 2022–2023 tuition rate) MHA Student Voices Meet some of our students and learn why they value their experiences in the Master of Healthcare Administration program at the Woods College. Our Students 102 Number of enrolled students 28–65 Students' age range 22 States represented MHA Curriculum 12 Courses 46 Credits 7-week format Program of Study * All courses are required (no electives) Introduction to Healthcare Systems and Organizations Provides students with an overview of healthcare services in the United States, including their historical development within a unique social, economic and political environment. Current institutional structures and delivery systems are described, as are the evolving health needs of Americans. Emphasis is placed upon the basic concepts and issues associated with the management and regulation of healthcare providers and the delivery of services. (4 credits) Healthcare Quality Management This course explores the theoretical foundations and application of quality improvement methods, tools, and strategies needed to increase organizational effectiveness. The course focuses on measurement and accountability in healthcare delivery systems through the examination and analysis of data, structures, processes, and outcomes. Process improvement theories and models are explored with the goal of preparing students to lead and practice in organizations that advance high reliability principles, patient safety, inter-professional teamwork, and continuous learning. (4 credits) Health Policy Federal and state-level healthcare policies affect a wide range of issues, including access to care, quality, cost, and modes of delivery. Effective healthcare managers must interpret and anticipate a changing policy landscape, and strategically apply that interpretation as part of the process of organizational planning and execution. In this course, the social and economic implications of contemporary healthcare policies are explored. Emphasis is placed on how public policy (e.g., Patient Protection & Affordable Care Act of 2010) influences human resources/capacity, values, needs, reimbursements and regulation of individuals, insurers, and medical and healthcare organizations. (4 credits) Management Theory and Organizational Behavior This course includes the application of management and organizational behavior theory to explore factors affecting behavior, performance, and job satisfaction of people working in organizations. The course focuses on theories and observations of team behaviors and techniques, with special emphasis on the individual as a team member, and on change management as a challenge and opportunity for healthcare organizations. Students will learn and apply best practices for managing individuals and teams within healthcare organizations. (4 credits) Leadership in Healthcare The course introduces leadership models, theories, and skills needed to successfully manage and lead healthcare organizations through transformational versus transactional leadership styles. Students use a variety of self-assessment tools (e.g., Myers-Briggs, SWOT analysis of self, leadership-style inventory) to develop self-awareness and to better understand the role of emotional intelligence in effective leadership. Students gain knowledge and skills for building and growing the interpersonal relationships and political skills required to develop and lead teams, and to successfully advance from organizational management roles to leadership roles. (4 credits) Healthcare Human Resources Management Healthcare managers face human resources issues such as benefits, grievances, and labor relations management in health organizations with organized labor. This course covers personnel practices such as job analysis and description, recruitment, selection, and compensation in various health delivery system settings. The course focuses on skill development in dealing with personnel at all levels of education, licensure and skill sets. (4 credits) Health Analytics In today’s highly competitive healthcare environment, data-driven decision making is key to assuring quality, increasing access, minimizing cost, and supporting innovation. In an industry focused on evidence-based decisions, leaders must be able to understand current research and critically evaluate research presented in the media and in peer-reviewed publications. The course emphasizes the use of various data sources from across the health ecosystem, the development of research questions, hypotheses, study design, analytic approaches, and data visualization techniques. Students will learn how to assess the validity and reliability of information, and interpret data to optimize the decision-making process, and assure that decisions are evidence-based. (4 credits) Healthcare Financial Management Economics is a large driver of what happens in the health sector. The course provides an understanding of the economic drivers that effect patients, providers, and payers across the health-related industries. As a leader in these industries, it is important to understand and anticipate the economic challenges of spending growth, expensive new technologies, and how payment reform can promote lower cost high quality care. The course includes an overview of economic principles, including supply and demand and perfect markets, and explores the economic challenges of healthcare economics and how health and health services are different from other goods. Considerable attention is given to topics of current public concern, including market failure, government interventions, health insurance, rapidly increasing cost, value, and expensive new technologies. (4 credits) Strategic Planning and Marketing Decisions involving strategy and marketing must be based on a manager’s overall understanding of the organization’s mission, goals, and objectives. This applied research project provides methods to evaluate organizational performance and productivity, analyze internal and external resources, and perform needs assessment. The course presents various models and methods for planning, branding, and positioning of healthcare services. It also emphasizes the importance of creating a strategic planning process. As the culmination and synthesis of the program experience, the applied research project requires each individual student to develop a business plan for the expansion of or development of a new healthcare facility. The business plan must address the major themes of each prior course, including relevant policies, quality initiatives, financial planning, human resource planning, technology planning, and planning for regulatory compliance. (4 credits) Health Ethics and Law In this course, legal issues related to the organization and delivery of healthcare are examined, along with the ethical and moral considerations associated with the management of healthcare facilities and the provision of health services. Topics include government regulation of healthcare facilities and occupations, civil rights regulations regarding diversity, fraud and abuse, institutional and personal liability for negligence and malpractice, patient consent requirements, termination of care, the confidentiality of medical information, medical staff credentialing, peer review of care, utilization review, and managed care regulations. Treatment of ethical and moral issues emphasizes the understanding of diverse viewpoints and methods for resolving conflicting moral obligations. Students apply course concepts through the development of a compliance plan to prevent fraud, waste, and abuse in billing. (4 credits) Healthcare Innovation-Based Strategy: Managing Change This course examines how healthcare organizations can innovate and adapt to the ever-evolving needs and demands of a dynamic, competitive, and regulatory healthcare environment. To do so, the course explores types of innovations and how individuals/organizations develop them, factors that affect the adoption and implementation of these innovations, and approaches to evaluating whether these innovations had their intended effect. (2 credits) Healthcare Information Technology This course explores the critical role of e-health and information systems in the planning, operation, and management of healthcare organizations. Students will learn how to assess and evaluate health information systems and business requirements in a variety of settings such as health systems, hospitals, and medical practices. Students will develop skills in healthcare technology implementation design that address industry-specific requirements such as translating HIPAA and other regulations into specific technology decisions while implementing medical systems (EMR, lab, clinical services, medical database providers, etc.). Students will also learn how to manage multi-institutional relationships as they are expressed in technology implementations, including the many vendor configurations, but also cross-provider organization relationships. Specific topics include data and systems integrations, communications protocols, security standards, procurement, and authentication and authorization. (4 credits) Learning Outcomes Demonstrate ethics, sound professional practices, social accountability, and community stewardship. Assess individual (e.g., personal) strengths and weaknesses (including impact on others) and engage in continual professional development, self-reflection, and commitment to lifelong learning. Articulate how leaders energize stakeholders with a compelling vision that fosters and sustains shared commitment to organizational goals. Consider the business, demographic, cultural, political, and regulatory implications of decisions and develop strategies that continually improve the long-term success and viability of the organization. Articulate and evaluate best workforce development practices, including the ability to hold people accountable to standards of performance. Understand and evaluate the formal and informal decision-making structures and power relationships in an organization; the ability to identify key decision-makers and the individuals who can influence them. Understand and value the potential in and understand the use of administrative and clinical information technology and decision-support tools in process and performance improvement. Understand the principles of transformational management, and to assess the organizational dynamics of healthcare organizations relative to their commitment to a transformational culture. Assess multiple dimensions of financial and economic implications across the sectors of the health ecosystem. Demonstrate critical thinking and logical approaches to problem solving. Interpret and analyze laws and regulations that impact health practitioners, organizations, and the public. Assess the effect of health policy on providers, payers, and populations. MHA Program Director Joni R. Beshansky As director of the Master of Health Administration program, Joni draws on her background as an accomplished research scientist and clinical operations leader to manage the online competency-based program. View Profile MHA Faculty Our faculty bring decades of professional experience to the classroom and provide individualized support and guidance to their students as they navigate the next steps in the program and in their careers. View More View Less Where do our students and graduates work? The competency-based MHA Program prepares graduates to address needs across broad health-related industries such as the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors, hospitals and health systems, insurance providers, government, and digital health companies. Where they work Massachusetts General Hospital Johnson & Johnson Kaiser Permanente Boston Children’s Hospital Bayer Healthcare Medtronic What they do Hospital Practice Manager Financial Controller Strategic Accounts Director Sales Training Manager CEO/Founder, Consulting Firm Healthcare System CEO/President Business Development Manager Pharmacy Director Skills in Demand 32% Job Growth Projected for Medical & Health Services Managers, 2019-2029 97,400 New Jobs Projected in Life, Physical, and Social Sciences, 2018-2028 2.4 million New Jobs Projected in Healthcare, 2019-2029 Apply Print Please note: Only students living within the 50 United States are eligible to apply for the MHA program. Click on each box below for details. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. View Articulation Agreements Deadlines Regular Decision Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Online Application Prerequisite The Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA) program accepts applicants based on a holistic review of the application materials. The minimum undergraduate GPA for acceptance is 3.0. For those interested in beginning the program immediately after finishing an undergraduate degree, the minimum GPA is also 3.0. Conditional acceptance may be considered for applicants with a GPA below 3.0 at the discretion of the admissions committee. Conditionally admitted students are often required to achieve a B or better in the first two courses. The Master of Healthcare Administration does not require the GRE or GMAT for admissions. If you believe your scores would enhance your application, please feel free to submit them. Our GRE reporting code is 7534 and our GMAT reporting code is 44X-HX-07. Start Your Application Résumé To be uploaded to your online application form In addition to your academic history and relevant work experience, please include any licenses currently held, social justice-related experience, language skills other than English, and research experience or publications. Personal Statement To be uploaded to your online application form In 1,000-1,500 words, describe your academic and professional goals; any experience relevant to this program; and your future plans, expectations, and aspirations. Letters of Recommendation All applicants must include two professional letters of recommendation. These letters should come from supervisors, people familiar with your work, or if you are a recent graduate, professors from relevant courses. Letters from family, friends, political figures, and the like are discouraged. Letters must be sent directly from the recommender either through an online application portal or directly to Woods College. We will not accept letters that are not in a sealed envelope mailed directly from the recommender or emailed directly from the recommender. Transcripts Unofficial transcripts may be uploaded to your online application form for purposes of application review. However, official transcript(s) must also be submitted upon acceptance/matriculation. Both undergraduate and graduate transcripts are required if applicable. Transcripts should be mailed to: Boston College Woods College of Advancing Studies Admissions Office St. Mary's Hall South 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 If your academic institution provides electronic transcripts please indicate wcasadm@bc.edu as the recipient. Applicants whose native language is not English are required to demonstrate English language proficiency. Visit our International Student page for required scores. Interview The admissions committee often requires a phone interview. Undergraduate GPA Undergraduate GPA The minimum undergraduate GPA for acceptance is 3.0. For those interested in beginning the program immediately after finishing an undergraduate degree, the minimum GPA is also 3.0. Conditional acceptance may be considered for applicants with a GPA below 3.0 at the discretion of the admissions committee. Conditionally admitted students are often required to achieve a B or better in the first two courses. Questions If you have technical difficulties with or technical questions about the online application, please email mhaprogram@bc.edu. Frequently Asked Questions When can I start my program? There are three convenient start dates offered per year (Fall, Spring, and Summer). How long do courses last? Each course is seven weeks in length. Students can easily take two courses per semester with a one week break in between semesters. How long will it take to complete the program? The program typically takes one to two years to complete. Most students take two 7-week courses per semester, finishing the program in two years. However, students can take longer to complete the program. Is there an application fee? No, there is no application fee. What is the tuition? The tuition for the Academic Year 2022–2023 is $1,318 per credit. The program is 46 credits. You can find additional information on the Tuition and Aid page. Tuition & Aid Are there any additional fees? A comprehensive fee of $25 per semester in the fall and spring, and $45 per semester in the summer helps to support the cost of providing the online courses, online library access, academic support, career services, and more, all of which can be accessed virtually. Students pay the comprehensive fee when they take one or more classes during a semester. On-campus services are available upon request. Do I have to pay a deposit to secure my place in the program? No, there is no deposit required to secure your place in the program. You are asked to complete an online confirmation of enrollment form to indicate your acceptance of the Boston College MHA admission offer. Once you submit the confirmation of enrollment form, we can begin the process of onboarding and registration. Are financial aid and payment plans available? Yes, financial aid and payment plans are available. A recommended first step is to fill out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at https://fafsa.ed.gov. Please use Boston College’s FAFSA school code: 002128. More about Boston College’s payment plan for graduate programs can be found at http://www.bc.edu/offices/stserv/financial/altfin/qppp.html. Will I qualify for financial aid no matter when I start the program? The minimum number of credits to qualify for Federal Financial Aid at Boston College is six credits per semester. To meet this requirement, students can elect to take two, four-credit courses during any given semester, or a four-credit course and a two-credit course. A student’s advisor will help with course planning. Do I need a bachelor’s degree? A bachelor’s degree is required to enroll in the program. Is there a minimum GPA requirement? The Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA) program accepts applicants based on a holistic review of the application materials. The minimum undergraduate GPA for acceptance is 3.0. For those interested in beginning the program immediately after finishing an undergraduate degree, the minimum GPA is also 3.0. Conditional acceptance may be considered for applicants with a GPA below 3.0 at the discretion of the admissions committee. Conditionally admitted students are often required to achieve a B or better in the first two courses. The Master of Healthcare Administration does not require the GRE or GMAT for admissions. If you believe your scores would enhance your application, please feel free to submit them. Our GRE reporting code is 7534 and our GMAT reporting code is 44X-HX-07. Do I need previous experience in healthcare? The MHA program does not require that applicants have experience in the healthcare sector. The program is designed for those who seek to work across all industries of the health ecosystem. Is the program accredited? Accreditation for Boston College’s online CBE MHA program is approved by the New England Commission of Higher Education, Inc. (NECHE). I live out of state. Can I enroll in this program? Boston College operates in compliance with individual U.S. state regulations regarding distance education. Boston College’s MHA program currently enrolls online students living in all 50 United States. http://onlinemha.bc.edu/state-authorizations/ How is the curriculum tied to current events and advancements in the rapidly-transforming health industry? Boston College's values of justice and intellectual inquiry are incorporated into the curriculum of the Healthcare Administration graduate program. It's design reflects Boston College’s commitment to helping prepare students to become engaged and moral citizens of the world. Students engage in rigorous and sustained conversations about emerging issues and develop the analytical and critical-thinking skills that allow them to impact health outcomes. The design of the Healthcare Administration graduate program and its pedagogy directly benefit from Boston College’s agility and intentionality. Preparing students to respond to emerging challenges in healthcare, the program continuously adapts the course content by incorporating current health-related crisis situations and considers contemporary challenges that the health industry faces in the fast-changing future across the health ecosystem. Financial Aid We know that a BC education is a worthwhile but significant investment. We're committed to helping you affordably achieve your educational goals while treating each student and their family equitably. Financial aid and payment plans may be available for domestic students taking a minimum of six credits across a semester. Graduate Student Aid Learn More About Our MHA Program INQUIRE Select State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia US Virgin Islands Washington Washington DC West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Non-US Resident Clicking the “Request Information” button above constitutes your expressed written consent to be called and/or texted by Boston College and its affiliates at the number(s) you provided, regarding furthering your education. You understand that these calls may be generated using an automated technology. Thank you for your interest in a program from Boston College. A representative will contact you soon! Error, the form submission encountered an error. Please try again or contact the site administrator about this issue. Quick Links Advising Take a Course as a Nondegree Student Why Woods? Diversity & Inclusion Events Back To Top Back To Top Woods College of Advancing Studies St. Mary's Hall South, Ground Floor Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts 02467 617-552-3900 woodscollege@bc.edu About Admission Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Community Apply Contact Give Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College