Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift President The President’s Forum on Inclusive Excellence “It is important, as an institution of higher learning, to celebrate our diversity and help others see the importance of creating an environment of inclusive excellence.” — President James P. Clements Forum Goals Focus on student intellectual and social development. Establish an environment that challenges each student to achieve academically at high levels and each member of campus to contribute to learning and knowledge development. Call attention to the cultural differences learners bring to the educational experience. Encourage a welcoming community that engages all of its diversity in student and organizational learning. Video Recap The President’s Forum on Inclusive Excellence, in Partnership with the Humanities Advancement Board of the College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities present: Keynote: A Conversation with the Honorable Sonia Sotomayor, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States When: Thursday, September 14, 2017 at 11:00 a.m. Where: Brooks Center for the Performing Arts, Clemson University, Clemson S.C. About the Keynote Speaker Sonia Sotomayor, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, was born in Bronx, New York, on June 25, 1954. She earned a B.A. in 1976 from Princeton University, graduating summa cum laude and receiving the university's highest academic honor. In 1979, she earned a J.D. from Yale Law School where she served as an editor of the Yale Law Journal. She thereafter served as Assistant District Attorney in the New York County District Attorney's Office from 1979–1984. She then litigated international commercial matters in New York City at Pavia & Harcourt, where she was an associate and then partner from 1984–1992. In 1991, President George H.W. Bush nominated her to the U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, and she served in that role from 1992–1998. She then served as a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit from 1998–2009. President Barack Obama nominated her as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court on May 26, 2009, and she assumed this role August 8, 2009. Photo Credit: The Collection of the Supreme Court of the United States Home Biography Meet the First Lady President's Advisory Board President’s Forum for Inclusive Excellence President’s Leadership Institute Presidential Speaking Request Contacts Follow @ClemsonPrez President's News & Announcements Related Links About Academics Athletics ClemsonForward Clemson Forever Outreach Research University Org Chart Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram