Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal Student Housing Policies Academic Year 2022-2023 Student Conduct Process Incident Report Form 2021-2022 Sample Student Housing License Agreement As members of the Housing and Residential Engagement community, as well as the academic community at California State University, Fullerton, individuals are expected to maintain a standard of conduct appropriate to their status as University students, per the Title 5 California Code of Regulations, Section 41301 Standards for Student Conduct. The policies in this document supplement Title 5 and students living in Student Housing are required to abide by both sets of policies. Residents are expected and required to follow all Housing & Residential Engagement policies as soon as they check in during the move-in process and take possession of their assigned living space on campus. Living in a community requires an effort on the part of all residents to cooperate in respecting individual and group rights. Residents must abide by the rules and regulations which are designed to promote the spirit of cooperation that must exist to assure the safety and comfort of all community members. Violations of Housing and Residential Engagement policies may result in immediate cancellation of the Student Housing License Agreement, referral to the University Police and referral to the Dean of Students Office and/or Office of Student Conduct. While policies are accurate at the time of publication, normal university policy-making procedures allow for changes to be made at any time. Student behavior that is inconsistent with the direction of Housing and Residential Engagement will be appropriately documented and addressed. ACCESSORY TO MISCONDUCT Encouraging, permitting, or assisting another to participate in any act that could subject them to discipline is prohibited. ALCOHOL Unsafe alcohol use and the resulting consequences have a significant negative impact on campus life and impair an individual’s clarity of thought, verbal and perceptual acuity, and mental alertness. Members and guests of the community are expected to take responsibility for their drinking behavior and for the consequences of alcohol consumption. Individuals are strongly encouraged to call for medical assistance for themselves or others who may be dangerously intoxicated. Eligible Age All residents and their guests must be 21 years of age to possess, consume, transport, or store alcohol. No person may manufacture, sell, furnish, or give any alcoholic beverage to a person under the age of 21. Inability to Care The inability to exercise care for one’s own safety or the safety of others due in whole or part to alcohol consumption is considered a violation of the alcohol policy. Containers No one, regardless of age, may have an open container of alcohol (e.g., can, bottle, cup) in a public area at any time. A public place is anywhere other than a bedroom or apartment. Any alcohol containers, including those that are empty, are prohibited in any room in which a person under the age of 21 resides. Kegs (including those which are empty or untapped) or any item used to facilitate the rapid consumption or distribution of alcohol is not permitted, regardless of the resident’s age. Over 21 Those over the age of 21 may consume alcohol in the privacy of their rooms or apartment, provided that no unassigned minors are present in that room. This means that a 21-year-old resident who resides with minors may drink alcohol in their apartment provided that there are no guests who are also minors. Presence of Alcohol Anyone under the age of 21 who is present in any room to which they are not assigned, regardless of duration, where the consumption of alcoholic beverages is occurring and/or open containers of alcohol are present will be in violation of the alcohol policy. The Residence Halls are considered “dry”, meaning that no person, regardless of age, may possess alcohol in these areas. Public Intoxication Public intoxication by any resident or guest regardless of age is strictly forbidden. ALTERATIONS Residents shall make no alterations or structural additions to student housing facilities. This includes, but is not limited to, chin-up bars being installed in any doorway including closets, mounted televisions, and shelves. APPLIANCES In compliance with fire safety standards, electrical cooking appliances with external heating elements or that produce large amounts of steam are not permitted (i.e. toasters, coffee pots, rice cookers, grills, Instant Pots etc.). Space heaters and sun lamps are not permitted. The only microwaves approved in student rooms are those included in the “MicroFridge” (refrigerator/freezer/microwave) units rented by the approved campus vendor. “Microfridge” units must be plugged directly into the wall receptacle. Use of multi-plug adapters such as cube adapters, unfused plug strips, extension cords, or any other device not complying with the California Electrical Code are prohibited. Other prohibited appliances include portable air conditioning units and humidifiers. BICYCLES Riding bicycles on campus pedestrian walkways is prohibited. Students may lock and store their bicycles in designated outdoor racks and areas. Bicycles may not be stored inside residence halls or apartments without prior written approval from Housing and Residential Engagement. To request an indoor accommodation, please see a Community Coordinator. BUSINESS OPERATION Residents are not permitted to operate a private business within any area of Student Housing property, or to use campus resources (mailing address, Ethernet connection, etc.) for that purpose. CLEANLINESS Part of living in a community environment means each person doing their part to keep the area clean. All residents are expected to maintain a standard level of sanitation and hygiene in their living areas. Some examples of violations of this policy include, but are not limited to: excessive trash, rotting food, items obstructing egress, etc. Failure to meet standards of sanitation may lead to damage charges and going through the conduct process. Other aspects of cleanliness, like lack of personal hygiene, are causes for concern and may result in follow up from Housing and Residential Engagement staff. COOPERATION WITH UNIVERSITY STAFF Residents and their guests must cooperate with and act respectfully toward University personnel who are acting in the performance of their duties. Residents and their guests must show identification when requested. This includes, but is not limited to, interactions with all Housing and Residential Engagement staff (full time and student staff), Gastronome staff, and University Police. Examples of violations of this policy include providing false information, withholding information, interfering with staff while they are performing their duties, noncompliance with verbal or written directives or sanctions, and abusive language or behavior toward staff. DECORATING AND POSTING Posters and decorations may be attached only to interior walls and only with materials that will not cause any permanent damage. Charges will be assessed for damages resulting from improper attachment. Painting of rooms is not allowed. Posting items in or on windows and ceilings is prohibited. Holiday decorations inside rooms are permitted only if they are safe and do not present a fire hazard. Cut/live trees and foliage are prohibited in apartments, student rooms, and public areas. Holiday decorations must be removed immediately following the end of the Holiday or prior to the start of University break, whichever comes first. DISRUPTION Any act that interferes with, disrupts, or obstructs Housing and Residential Engagement operations, activities, residents, or guests is prohibited. This includes, but is not limited to, any action that poses a concern to the health and safety of another person or the property of Housing and Residential Engagement. DOORS AND SCREENS Doors and screens may not be removed from their frames. If removed, the occupants will be charged for their reinstallation, replacement, and/or repair. Room entry doors and restroom doors are fire-rated doors. No more than 5% of the door may be covered with combustible material. All room entry doors and restroom doors must close and latch so the door does not stay in a partially-open or unlocked position. Propping and/or wedging of the door, or disabling the latching mechanism, is prohibited. DOUBLE OCCUPANCY Double Occupancy occurs when a resident takes over a space that has become available in a room because a roommate has not been assigned or their roommate has moved out. When this occurs, Housing and Residential Engagement reserves the right to fill all vacancies at any time. Residents who engage in conduct designed or intended to dissuade or intimidate other students from moving into a room or who otherwise attempt to manipulate the housing assignment process may be subject to conduct action. If someone is assigned a roommate at any time during the fall or spring semester, or when they leave for the winter break, it is important they are prepared to receive that person by ensuring the following: one bed should be cleared and unobstructed one desk should be emptied and cleared one set of drawers should be emptied and available one closet or wardrobe should be emptied and made available (half closet in double apartments) all assigned university furniture is present in the room DRONES The use and storage of drones is not permitted in Student Housing, the Gastronome, Community Market, and the Late Night Café DRUGS Federal law, state law, and University policy prohibit the solicitation, procurement, sale, or manufacture of narcotics or controlled substances except as expressly permitted by law. Any student known or suspected to be in possession, using or distributing drugs, including marijuana, is subject to the student conduct process and criminal action under state and/or federal law. Issued medicinal marijuana cards are not valid on campus. California law allows individuals 21 and over to possess a limited amount of marijuana for medical and recreational purposes. While the use of medicinal and recreational marijuana is not a criminal offense in the state of California, possession and use are prohibited on campus, including the residence halls and apartments. Additionally, marijuana paraphernalia is not permitted in the residence halls or apartments. Possession of a Medicinal Marijuana Card does not authorize students or guests, to possess or use medical or recreational marijuana on campus property. The use, possession, sale, manufacture, distribution, or attempt to do so, of illegal drugs, hallucinogens, or controlled substances, or the evidence of such, including smoke, paraphernalia, or illegal substances is prohibited in all Student Housing facilities. All persons in a room where there is evidence of drug use may be held responsible for the use. Being under the influence of illegal drugs, hallucinogens, or controlled substances is also prohibited. Violations of this section may result in immediate cancellation of the Student Housing License Agreement, referral to the University Police and referral to the Office of Student Conduct. FIRE SAFETY Any tampering with fire detection systems, fire alarms, or fire-fighting equipment is prohibited. This includes alarms, fire extinguishers, fire hoses, heat and smoke detectors, sprinkler systems, fire escapes, smoke/fire doors, exit signs, and audible/visual devices. All students are required to follow fire evacuation procedures. This includes evacuating whenever an alarm is sounded regardless of whether the alarm is related to a scheduled drill or not. Tampering with fire safety equipment or sounding false fire alarms is punishable by up to 6 months in jail and/or a $500.00 fine. Smoke detectors must remain in place and operable at all times. FURNITURE REMOVAL Furniture in residence halls, apartments, study rooms, active rooms, and passive rooms are meant to be used by residents of the hall and therefore, are not to be removed. If moved, there may be a fee to have furniture moved back to the appropriate area by Housing staff. Any such fee shall be prorated by room, apartment, or floor in cases where individual responsibility cannot be ascertained. GAMBLING No student shall gamble for money or other valuables in the residence halls or apartments except as part of an authorized activity sanctioned by Housing and Residential Engagement. GUESTS Individuals who hold a Student Housing License Agreement are considered visitors of any building or floor where they are not officially assigned. Non-residents/Guests are not permitted to access any Student Housing facility unless a resident escorts them. Guests are defined as any individual who does not possess a Student Housing License Agreement with Housing and Residential Engagement. Residents are: Expected to inform their guests of all CSUF Housing and Residential Engagement and University policies. Responsible for accompanying their guests at all times while in the Student Housing area. Held judicially and financially accountable for their guests. Residents may have a guest up to three nights within a two-week period with the consent of their roommate/apartment mates. Residents in violation of this policy may be subject to disciplinary action. The number of guests present must not violate fire occupancy restrictions. All roommates must be consulted and agree to overnight guests. Any guest can be denied permission to stay by a roommate. However, it is recommended that roommates consider allowing reasonable accommodation to guests in promotion of a harmonious living environment. Residents who deny their roommates permission to host a guest should have specific reasons why the guest has been denied permission to visit. All specific guest regulations are to be determined and mutually agreed upon by the roommates within each room and/or apartment. If consensus cannot be met independently, the Resident Advisor can assist by creating a written agreement with all roommates Roommate/guest concerns should be directed to the Resident Advisor (RA), Community Coordinator (CC), or Associate Director for Residential Engagement as they can assist with conflicts. Unescorted individuals found in Housing and Residential Engagement will be escorted off Student Housing property and/or cited by University Police for trespassing. HAMMOCKS Hammocking is permitted on outdoor trees only if it does not cause substantial and permanent harm to the tree or any area of Student Housing property. University and Housing personnel have the right to require any resident and their guest to remove their hammock from Student Housing property. Hammocking is not permitted inside any Student Housing facilities, patios, and/or balconies. HARASSMENT: INCLUDING INTIMIDATION AND BULLYING Per Executive Order 1097, Housing and Residential Engagement will not tolerate any form of discrimination, harassment, intimidation, retaliation or bullying. Harassment is defined as unwelcome conduct engaged in because of a Protected Status that is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive that its effect, whether or not intended, could be considered as limiting a person’s ability to participate in or benefit from the services, activities, or opportunities offered by the University.Intimidation is behavior that is disturbing or threatening to an individual or group, inciting fear of harm to person or property. Bullying/Cyber Bullying is defined as the process of intimidating or mistreating somebody perceived to be weaker or in a vulnerable situation. Behaviors can be characterized as, but are not limited to the following: stalking, name calling, unwanted physical contact, and unwelcome verbal, electronic, or written communication. Those involved in harassment, intimidation, or bullying will face student conduct actions and may be referred to the Office of Student Conduct. HARM TO SELF AND/OR OTHERS Committing acts of physical or mental abuse or engaging in actions that intimidate, harass, threaten, coerce, or otherwise endanger the health or safety of self or another person (including threats or attempts of suicide) is prohibited. This includes, but is not limited to physical harm or threat of physical harm to any person and/or to self. HOVERBOARDS The use and storage of hoverboards is not permitted in Student Housing, the Gastronome, Community Market, and the Late Night Café. KEYS Students are not permitted to copy or loan to any other person any key or access card that has been issued by a University official, including their TitanCard. MINORS The term minor refers to anyone under the age of 18. Students over the age of eighteen living with or otherwise socializing with a minor need to be aware that the University, state, and federal courts view and treat activities such as alcohol (using, providing, selling), sexual acts, violent acts, and overnight guests differently when a minor is involved. Minors are generally unable to “consent to” or “contract with” individuals on their own behalf. This includes but is not limited to sexual relations and financial contracts. OPEN FLAMES Burning candles is prohibited in all Housing and Residential Engagement facilities. Open flames are only allowed in apartment kitchens. Items that require an open flame to operate (e.g., Bunsen burners; candles, including decorative; oil burners; alcohol burners; lighters; matches) are not allowed in any Housing and Residential Engagement facility (excluding the Gastronome). Burning of incense and herbs is also prohibited. PATIOS AND BALCONIES Only furniture designed for outdoor use is permitted on patios and balconies. Hammocks, barbecues, University furniture, clotheslines, trash/recycling bags and refuse containers, sporting equipment, or unsightly items are not permitted on patios and balconies. Items, including but not limited to clothing, rugs, and blankets, are not allowed to be hung on balcony railings. Residents are not to use windows, patios, or balconies as a means of entrance or exit. PETS Animals or evidence of animals including food, cages, or other supplies are prohibited in the residence halls/apartments at all times, even on a temporary basis. Only fish in tanks no larger than 5 gallons are allowed. Service and/or emotional support animals are permitted. Contact the Associate Director for Residential Engagement if you have a need for a service and/or emotional support animal. POSTING Individuals may not post their own fliers or printed materials. Posting guidelines within Housing and Residential Engagement can be found by visiting the Event Services webpage at http://www.fullerton.edu/housing/event_services. PROJECTILES Throwing, dropping, or projecting items from a window, roof, or balcony including but not limited to bottles, cans, garbage, or water is prohibited. QUIET HOURS AND NOISE Housing and Residential Engagement is committed to fostering a community that is conducive to studying and sleeping, thereby supporting the mission of the University. Please remember to be considerate by keeping noise to a minimum, even when specific quiet hours are not being observed. Quiet Hours: Sunday through Thursday: 10 p.m. to 8 a.m. Friday and Saturday: 12 a.m. to 10 a.m. Quiet Hours extend to the public areas (i.e. basketball and volleyball courts) and outdoor areas as well as balconies/patios, study rooms, lounges, and student rooms. Each semester, beginning at 5 p.m. on the last Friday of classes, through 5 p.m. on the Saturday of finals week, a 24-Hour Quiet Hour policy is in effect. It is during these hours that students should avoid any loud talking or disturbance. Keep TV and stereos at low volume (headsets are suggested for other than low volume use). Courtesy Hours refers to any time during which Quiet Hours are not in effect. The right to study and/or sleep supersedes the right to be noisy. Courtesy Hours allow residents the authority to ask other community members to comply with their request to study and/or sleep. Students who repeatedly violate Quiet Hours may be asked to remove any equipment which is causing the disturbance from Housing and Residential Engagement or they may have their Student Housing License Agreement cancelled. ROOFS Presence on roofs, fire escapes, and ledges is strictly prohibited. At no time are students to access the roofs of any Student Housing facility for any purpose or reason. It is not permitted to stand on or walk along building ledges or scale the sides of building/walls of any Student Housing facility at any time for any purpose. SAFETY AND SECURITY Public passageways are for ingress or egress and should not be blocked or used for any other purpose. Sleeping in public areas (lounges, hallways, etc.), propping doors, entering a secured area behind someone without permission, allowing access to someone who is not your guest, and forcing open locked doors are violations of Housing and Residential Engagement policy. Residents and guests must, upon request, provide appropriate University identification to University Police or University personnel. SKATEBOARDS AND SKATES Except for instructional purposes and/or during University sanctioned events, skateboards may not be ridden anywhere on campus, including parking structures. For more information, please see Presidential Directive 16. Skateboards and skates (roller or inline) are prohibited on campus. Students in violation of the skateboard policy will be asked to remove their skateboard from the Student Housing area. SLACKLINING In order to keep our community safe and protect university property, slacklining is not permitted on Student Housing property. SMOKING Cal State Fullerton is committed to a healthy and productive environment. In light of well-established health risks associated with exposure to secondhand smoke, the University became a smoke-free campus on August 1, 2013. In accordance with CSU systemwide policy, CSUF is 100% Smoke Free and Tobacco Free. CSUF prohibits smoking and vaping in all interior and exterior campus areas and locations as specified below: Buildings (including residences), structures (including parking structures), and outdoor areas owned, leased, or rented by the University or one of its auxiliaries whether located on or off the Fullerton campus. Vehicles owned, leased, or rented by the University or one of the University’s auxiliaries. Vehicles on University-owned, leased, or rented land or in University-owned, leased, or rented parking structures. California law allows individuals 21 and over to possess tobacco products. While the use of smoking and vaping is not a criminal offense in the state of California, possession or use is prohibited on campus, including the residence halls and apartments. The sale or distribution of any tobacco product, including smokeless tobacco products, is also prohibited. Additionally, sponsorship of a University activity or event by a tobacco product manufacturer is prohibited unless explicitly authorized in writing by the University president or designee. SOLICITATION Advertising, sales, and/or solicitation by residents, guests, or off-campus persons are prohibited, unless otherwise approved by Housing and Residential Engagement. SPORTING ACTIVITIES Playing ball or engaging in other sports activities (excluding those provided by Housing and Residential Engagement in the active rooms within each residence hall) is not permitted inside any Student Housing facilities. SUBLETTING Subletting is prohibited. Students found subletting are in violation of University policy and will be subject to cancellation of their Student Housing License Agreement as well as be held financially responsible for all fees collected during illegal sublet term. THEFT Theft of property or services from the University community, or misappropriation of University resources is prohibited. This includes allowing another person to use one’s TitanCard to access food services intended for the licensee. TRASH REMOVAL AND LITTERING Disposing of personal trash in common areas is prohibited. Residents are expected to use the dumpsters outside of the buildings to dispose of trash. Dumpsters are located behind Juniper, Acacia, Fig, Elm, Sycamore and Valencia. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY Unauthorized entry into, or presence in, any space or room that is restricted is not allowed. This includes, but is not limited to: roof areas, custodial closets, conference rooms without a reservation, and spaces designated as staff only. In addition, parking and/or driving a vehicle on any restricted area within Housing and Residential Engagement is prohibited. This includes, but is not limited to, operating any unauthorized vehicle on the Piazza and/or Tuffy Lane. VANDALISM Students are expected to maintain their assigned room, its furnishings, and public areas in the same condition in which they were found. Repairing or replacing an item due to vandalism or recklessness creates an unnecessary inconvenience and cost for everyone. As such, vandalism, misuse, or abuse of State or personal property is forbidden. Students found in violation of this policy will be held financially responsible for the replacement and/or repair of damaged property. Violations of this section may result in immediate cancellation of the Student Housing License Agreement, referral to the University Police and referral to the Office of Student Conduct. WATER PLAY Water play/fighting, including but not limited to: water balloons, squirt guns, hoses, slip n’ slides, portable pools, and drinking games involving liquids, is not permitted at any time. WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES Weapons are prohibited in Housing and Residential Engagement. This includes, but is not limited to: firearms, ammunition, explosives, fireworks, gasoline or any other flammable liquids, air guns, spring guns, paintball guns or other instruments in which the propelling force is a spring, compressed air, or CO2, knives (except for those expressly used in food preparation), decorative or martial arts weapons, bows and arrows, weapons for use in hunting, Tasers, and stun guns. The use of mace/pepper spray is only allowed in self-defense situations. All prohibited weapons and explosives may be confiscated by the University Police. Violations of this section may result in immediate cancellation of the Student Housing License Agreement, referral to the University Police and referral to the Office of Student Conduct. While policies are accurate at the time of publication, normal university policy-making procedures allow for changes to be made at any time. While every policy cannot be listed, student behavior that is inconsistent with the direction of Housing and Residential Engagement will be appropriately documented and addressed Student Housing COVID-19 Policies Residents are expected and required to follow all Housing and Residential Engagementand University COVID-19 related policies as soon as they check-in during the move-in process and take possession of their assigned living space within student housing. The following policies supersede any inconsistent Housing andResidential Engagement policy for as long as these policies are in place. FACE COVERINGS All residents must wear a face covering indoors when not in their assigned living space, regardless of vaccination status. The face covering must cover the nose and mouth. Spaces where face coverings are required within Housing andResidential Engagement include, but are not limited to, laundry rooms, meeting rooms, common spaces, common restrooms (unless showering, washing the face, or brushing teeth), the Gastronome (unless eating or drinking), and the Housing andResidential Engagement Office. Face coverings must also be worn when interacting with any staff member acting in their official capacity even if the interaction occurs within the resident’s assigned living space. In addition, all guests are expected to comply with requests to wear a face covering made by any resident who is assigned to live in the space in which the guest(s) are visiting.The guest(s) must comply with this request regardless of whether the guest(s) are associated with that resident or not. For definitions of what constitutes an appropriate face covering, please refer to the definitions found within President’s Directive No. 22 under Article III.The face covering policy will be in effect until at least September 30, 2021. FAILURE TO COMPLY Residents are expected to comply with all University policies, procedures, guidelines, and presidential directives, including without limitation those explicitly issued concerning the COVID-19 pandemic. This includes any COVID-19 testing requirements implemented by the University as outlined in President’s Directive No. 22. Failure to comply with any COVID-19 directive or policy may result in student conduct proceedings within Housing and Residential Engagement including but not limited to eviction from student housing. ISOLATION/QUARANTINE All residents are expected to comply with any directive from a University or county public health official requiring them to isolate and/or quarantine due to exposure or testing positive for COVID-19. Housing and Residential Engagement will work with residents who receive these directives to ensure they are able to comply. Due to the significant impact on the community’s health and safety if these directives are not followed, residents who fail to comply with University and/or county public health official directives will be evicted from Student Housing. PRESIDENT’S DIRECTIVE NO. 22 All residents are expected to comply with President’s Directive No. 22 which governs all campus operations, expectations, and accountability measures related to COVID-19. The full text of the directive can be found here . These policies are subject to change at any time based on need and guidance from local, state, and federal health agencies. Any changes will be communicated to residents via email in a timely manner. Student behavior that is inconsistent with these policies will be appropriately documented and addressed. This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 5/26/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.