Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date July 15, 2021 2021-07-15 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email For second consecutive year, First Readings will examine Brown’s historical ties to the slave trade Incoming undergraduates in the Class of 2025 will read a digitized version of the pioneering Slavery and Justice Report, the selected text for the First Readings program for the second year. This 1764 Bill of Lading for the slave ship Sally is from the Brown Family Business Records collection at the John Carter Brown Library. It is one of many historical documents accessible online through the First Readings digital edition of the Slavery and Justice Report. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — This summer, incoming first-year undergraduates at Brown will critically examine the University’s historical connections to slavery as they read the “Report of the Brown University Steering Committee on Slavery and Justice,” the University’s selection for the 2021 First Readings program. The report is the program’s selected text for a second consecutive year as part of a pilot to incorporate it more formally into first-year orientations. It was first selected in March 2020, months before the tragic deaths of George Floyd and others brought renewed attention to the continuing legacy of anti-Black violence in the U.S. The 2006 text, frequently referred to as the Slavery and Justice Report, examined Brown’s historical ties to the trans-Atlantic slave trade and proposed actions for the University to hold itself accountable for the ways in which it benefited from its involvement with slavery. The report — composed by a committee of faculty, staff and students — has broadly influenced higher education’s engagement with institutional connections to slavery since it was first published. First-year students will read it as communities nationwide continue to reckon with the impact of anti-Black racism on the country’s past and present, said Dean of the College Rashid Zia in a July 15 message announcing the selection to the Brown community. “As we welcome our new students to campus this fall, I can think of no more appropriate reading to help our community define a shared understanding of place and purpose on College Hill,” Zia said. “Studying the past together provides us with an invaluable opportunity to better understand the present. Reflecting on the meaning of accountability, justice and repair can help us transform our collective future. We look forward to the reflection and discussions that will ensue from this reading.” Students will have access to a digital First Readings edition of the report that presents historical documents cited in the report and provides supplemental materials, including readings, videos and transcripts of historical documents. The digital edition also enables students to highlight passages and add notes that are retained between logins. First Readings is Brown’s annual summer reading initiative, in which a common reading experience introduces incoming undergraduate students to the University and to the rigors of academic life on College Hill. It culminates in small group discussion seminars guided by members of the Brown faculty during Orientation. The students, faculty and staff on this year’s First Readings selection committee chose the Slavery and Justice Report from among a pool of texts — representing a range of periods, mediums and cultures — nominated by members of the Brown community. This year’s selection committee included Zia and Anja Lee from the College; undergraduates Tanushri Sundar and Peter Zubiago; faculty members Matthew Guterl (American studies and Africana studies) and Gary Wessel (biology); and Sarah Evelyn, director of academic engagement for the humanities and social sciences at the University Library. Tags Slavery and Justice The College Related news: News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search For second consecutive year, First Readings will examine Brown’s historical ties to the slave trade Open details for For second consecutive year, First Readings will examine Brown’s historical ties to the slave trade Bookmark this Page