Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Forward Menu Main Nav BC Forward COVID Testing Back Back Close Updates Overview Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. Faculty & Staff Students & Parents Visitors COVID Testing Results COVID Testing Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life Home Updates July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life Updates Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. July 23, 2021 Dear Students, We hope this email finds you well and rested during the summer season after a successful academic year on campus. BC continues to plan for the August 30 start of classes. While there are still logistical details to be worked out over the coming weeks based on updated guidelines related to COVID-19, we write to provide the residential move-in timeline for August. Move-in procedures will include an initial COVID-19 test at BC, which will be required for all students, faculty, and staff who plan to be on-campus during the first semester. In an effort to space out move-in arrivals, ALL students will need to sign-up for a move-in appointment time for their residence hall. Students arriving outside of their appointment time may not be able to check-in/move-in until the next available time (which may be the next day). During the move-in period, students will only be permitted to have one guest (who must be masked) enter the building with them to help with the move-in process. This requirement is intended to limit the number of people in the residence hall stairwells, elevators, and hallways. An email will be sent with further information on appointments and move-in logistics early next month. As stated in the email sent by Dr. Doug Comeau, all students are asked to upload their vaccine card information to the UHS portal by August 1, and must be fully vaccinated by August 23 (or prior to move-in for those living on campus if earlier than the 23rd). Please note that any student who is not fully vaccinated and has not uploaded their proof of vaccination by these deadlines will not be allowed to move into the residence halls, and is in jeopardy of having their housing placement canceled for the fall semester. All residential international students will receive a separate email with specific details regarding vaccinations and moving into on-campus housing early next week. This email will come from either the Office of International Students and Scholars or the Office of Residential Life. Traditional Move-In Timeline First Year International Student Move-In: Monday, August 23 First-Year Student Move-In: Wednesday, August 25 and Thursday, August 26 Upperclass and Transfer Student Move-In: Friday, August 27 and Saturday, August 28 Late Arrivals Move-In: Sunday, August 29 Early Arrivals Early arrivals will be limited and will require advanced approval. Please note that most requests for early arrival will not be approved so as to accommodate necessary testing and health protocols. The early arrival application will open Friday, July 23 and close on Tuesday, August 10 via the Agora Portal → My ResLife → Forms → Fall Early Arrival Application. Group Early Arrivals: Only a limited number of approved groups will be permitted to move in early. If you are part of an approved group and have questions about your move-in date, contact the faculty or staff member in charge of your program. Individual Early Arrivals: Students with off-campus leases may apply for an arrival for as early as August 21 with proof of lease (student name, off-campus address, and end date must be listed on the signed lease). Students with other extenuating circumstances may apply for an early arrival beginning August 24 with detailed reasoning. ALL INDIVIDUAL students arriving early must participate in Welcome Wagon to help move-in the Class of 2025 on August 25-26, and will be assigned 1-2 shifts from 8am-7pm. More details will be provided for approved early arrivals. There will be an early arrival fee of $75/night prior to the residence halls opening. Students who arrive as part of an approved early arrival group will receive a fee waiver for up to two nights; individual students participating in Welcome Wagon will receive a fee waiver for up to three nights. More information will be communicated as details are finalized. In the meantime, if you have any questions or concerns, email transitions@bc.edu. You may also check the BC Forward website and the Office of Residential Life website for additional updates. We look forward to welcoming you back to campus in August! Matt Razek Assistant Director, Transitional Housing & Business Operations Andy Anderson Associate Director, Housing Operations Boston College Office of Residential Life Maloney Hall, Suite 413 617-552-3060 transitions@bc.edu Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College