Skip To Main Content www.research.iastate.edu Open Search Box View our Twitter View our Facebook View our Instagram View our Youtube Channel Open Mobile Menu View our Twitter View our Facebook View our Instagram View our Youtube Channel Enabling Healthy Lives Building sustainable human and natural ecosystems Creating next generation materials and manufacturing technologies Advancing data driven discovery and secure cyber systems Developing global citizens and vibrant societies We're changing the world Iowa State University researchers are bettering society through groundbreaking research that tackles the challenges of the 21st century. From foundational research that contributes building blocks to greater exploration, to translational research that leads directly to new innovations and solutions, our researchers collaborate across disciplines to improve lives in Iowa, the nation, and the world. Create Discover Explore View Full Timeline 1896 An Ag Giant Sprouts at Iowa State George Washington Carver is recognized as one of the most iconic scientists of all time – and he began his journey at Iowa State. His research resulted in the creation of hundreds of uses for peanuts and sweet potatoes, from plastics to laundry soap to diesel fuel. 1937 The ABC's of Computing Born Here Computers today continue to be built on many of the basic tenets that originated with the world’s first electronic computer, created at Iowa State. The Atanasoff-Berry Computer (ABC) was developed by physics professor John Vincent Atanasoff, who wanted to increase the speed and accuracy of scientific calculations. 2011 Researcher Awarded Nobel Prize Iowa State and Ames Laboratory materials scientist Dan Shechtman receives the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his discovery of quasicrystals. Today they’re both created in labs and found in natural materials, and their hardness and non-stick qualities may find use in strong steels and surface coatings. 2022 Innovation on the Horizon Iowa State is changing Iowa, the nation, and the world through its research – from improving the health of people, animals, and the environment to advancing agriculture production and techniques with data to designing next-generation materials and manufacturing technologies. What will we discover next? News Startups near state lines gravitate toward side with lower property tax, according to Iowa State Study Researchers at Iowa State University found significantly different state tax rates affect where new businesses set up shop near state lines.... In franchising, playing tough early may support long-term benefits From McDonalds to Marriott, 7-Eleven to Ace Hardware, we’re surrounded by franchises. They are the dominant retail model in the U.S., and ... New model could improve matches between students and schools For the majority of students in the U.S., residential addresses determine which public elementary, middle, or high school they attend. But w... Events Partners General Electric Ehent quae nes repre verferitate aciatecum aci nobis idusdae. Ibearit officium in porerumquam, tenis re, volorep udiostem. John Deere Ehent quae nes repre verferitate aciatecum aci nobis idusdae. Ibearit officium in porerumquam, tenis re, volorep udiostem Philips Ehent quae nes repre verferitate aciatecum aci nobis idusdae. Ibearit officium in porerumquam, tenis re, volorep udiostem Boeing Ehent quae nes repre verferitate aciatecum aci nobis idusdae. Ibearit officium in porerumquam, tenis re, volorep udiostem Microsoft Ehent quae nes repre verferitate aciatecum aci nobis idusdae. Ibearit officium in porerumquam, tenis re, volorep udiostem Apple Ehent quae nes repre verferitate aciatecum aci nobis idusdae. Ibearit officium in porerumquam, tenis re, volorep udiostem Google Ehent quae nes repre verferitate aciatecum aci nobis idusdae. Ibearit officium in porerumquam, tenis re, volorep udiostem NASA Ehent quae nes repre verferitate aciatecum aci nobis idusdae. Ibearit officium in porerumquam, tenis re, volorep udiostem Facebook Ehent quae nes repre verferitate aciatecum aci nobis idusdae. Ibearit officium in porerumquam, tenis re, volorep udiostem Push Branding Ehent quae nes repre verferitate aciatecum aci nobis idusdae. Ibearit officium in porerumquam, tenis re, volorep udiostem Iowa State University 2610 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Rd. Ames, Iowa 50011 E. vpr@iastate.edu P. 515-294-6344 Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy.