Skip to main content Search search Resources Campus Map A-Z UAccess Directory / Phonebook Future Wildcat Weather News Calendar search search menu menu I am Select your audience choose an option a future student a current student a faculty or staff member a parent or visitor an alumni member a donor a business or partner Go to the page for that group Visit Apply home home close close Search search Main navigation Admissions Admissions Overview First-Year Transfer Graduate International Online Returning Non-Degree Seeking Counselors Professional Education & Certification Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges & Schools Academic Resources Health Sciences Class Registration Libraries Global Engagement Research Research, Innovation & Impact Corporate Engagement Research Centers Resources for Researchers Research Opportunities for Students Environment & Sustainability Student Life Student Life Overview Living on Campus Things To Do Getting Involved Spirit & Traditions All About Tucson Student Stories Visit About About Arizona Tuition & Aid Leadership Purpose, Mission & Values Faculty Awards & Honors Diversity & Inclusion New Economy Initiative Strategic Plan News Alumni Alumni Association Chapters & Clubs Arizona Loyal Give Support Arizona Give Today Athletics Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Top-notch services for our world-class faculty and staff. EMAIL Sign in to your UArizona email. OFFICE365 Access Microsoft Word, Excel, Outlook and more. UACCESS Access your payroll, report weekly time and more. D2L Sign in to create and manage classes. IT HELP Call or chat with the IT 24/7 support center. WORKING AT UARIZONA Image Employee and management advising, hiring strategies, employee benefits, work-site wellness, professional development and more. Benefits Payroll Employment & Jobs Life & Work Connections Professional Development Employee Advising Faculty & Staff Family Admissions Office of Institutional Equity Ombuds Program HUMAN RESOURCES Employee Resources Find resources to help with your day-to-day work and to ensure a safe work environment. Directory Faculty Resources Staff Resources Marketing & Web Resources Disability Resources Ethics & Compliance Hotline Campus Safety UArizona Campus Offerings Connect with key campus services and learn more about what is happening around campus. Parking & Transportation Campus Health Campus Dining Campus Rec Membership Arizona Athletics Tickets Libraries News & Events CALENDARS ACADEMIC CALENDAR HOLIDAY SCHEDULE PLAN YOUR YEAR OUT IN ADVANCE. A new year means new campus honored holidays and days off of the academic term, for staff and for faculty. CAMPUS NEWS Image 'Say yes' to opportunities that call to you, Lauretta tells graduates May 13, 2022 Agreeing to send a spacecraft to an asteroid to bring back a sample was no easy decision, Dante Lauretta, the leader of NASA's UArizona-led OSIRIS-REx mission, told graduates. They, too, will face daunting opportunities in their careers, he said – and they should say yes. Read more Image For third year, UArizona honored for supporting local vets May 9, 2022 Operation Hat Trick, a nonprofit dedicated to supporting wounded veterans, has again named UArizona the winner of its Excellence in Service Award. The university was recognized for&nbsp; supporting service members and veterans through the sale of military-themed merchandise. Read more Image Graduates will be honored for their determination and excellence inside and outside the classroom May 5, 2022 Seven undergraduates will earn four university-wide awards at Friday's Commencement ceremony. The awards recognize character, integrity, perseverance and academic achievement. Read more See all Campus News stories Join the conversation! Stay up to date with campus news, events, and your fellow UArizona faculty and staff. NEWS LO QUE PASA Footer - Main Employment Emergency Information Title IX / Non-Discrimination Campus Safety UAlert Copyright Campus Accessibility Contact Us Feedback The University of Arizona | Tucson, Arizona 85721 | 520‑621‑2211 Information For Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Donors Parents & Visitors Corporations & Businesses Topics About the University Academics Arts & Museums Athletics & Recreation Colleges, Schools, Departments Diversity Environment & Sustainability Global Engagement Health & Medical Libraries Outreach & Extension Research & Innovation Purpose, Mission & Values Resources A-Z Index Calendars Campus Map News Phonebook Weather Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube We respectfully acknowledge the University of Arizona is on the land and territories of Indigenous peoples. Today, Arizona is home to 22 federally recognized tribes, with Tucson being home to the O’odham and the Yaqui. Committed to diversity and inclusion, the University strives to build sustainable relationships with sovereign Native Nations and Indigenous communities through education offerings, partnerships, and community service. University Information Security and Privacy © 2022 The Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of The University of Arizona.