Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. DAAP grad Lee Wilger lands job at Relativity Textiles in... May 26, 2022 Relativity Textiles offers co-op experiences for DAAP students, and Lee Wilger is returning there as an employee. Gift names new UC College of Law building atrium May 23, 2022 A University of Cincinnati alumnus has made a gift of $500,000 to the new University of Cincinnati College of Law building. H.C. Buck Niehoff, JD ’72, HON ’11, is honoring his former law firm, Peck, Shaffer & Williams LLP, by naming the two-story atrium. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. DAAP grad Lee Wilger lands job at Relativity Textiles in... May 26, 2022 Relativity Textiles offers co-op experiences for DAAP students, and Lee Wilger is returning there as an employee. Gift names new UC College of Law building atrium May 23, 2022 A University of Cincinnati alumnus has made a gift of $500,000 to the new University of Cincinnati College of Law building. H.C. Buck Niehoff, JD ’72, HON ’11, is honoring his former law firm, Peck, Shaffer & Williams LLP, by naming the two-story atrium. UC alumna creates scholarship benefiting women in engineering... May 23, 2022 Only 15% of U.S. engineers are women, according to the latest data from the United States Census Bureau. It’s a gap the University of Cincinnati College of Engineering and Applied Science hopes to help close, and a UC alumna has established a scholarship that will aid efforts. UC Law announces new co-chairs for Women in Law alumnae group May 13, 2022 Janetta Brewer ’06 and Rebecca Zemmelman ’16 will serve as co-chairs of the Women in Law alumni group, a philanthropic group made up of College of Law alumnae that funds a spectrum of faculty and student-led programs at the College of Law. How a compound becomes a drug May 9, 2022 Over decades of ups and downs, the hard work of University of Cincinnati alumnus John Drach paid off when the FDA approved a new drug he helped develop to treat cytomegalovirus. You make a difference: UC alumnae raise the bar for diabetes care May 5, 2022 UC College of Nursing alumnae working at UC Medical Center have worked to provide support to diabetes patients. UC graduate develops in-home physical therapy company May 4, 2022 University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup Band Connect is nearing a close on its pre-seed round of funding and will start a military pilot with the Department of Defense, the Cincinnati Business Courier reported. UC makes connections to key players in the theme park industry May 4, 2022 For Andrew Holcroft Disney World had always been a place for family memories and entertainment as a youth. But he entered high school he seriously began to think about fields of study, careers and if he could do more than just visit theme parks. Maybe he could be part of a team creating or enhancing a theme park. As a a fourth-year industrial design student at the University of Cincinnati he's exploring that option. Co-op launched UC alumnus’ Intel career May 3, 2022 Intel vice president James Breisch got his start in computer engineering through UC's top-ranked co-op program. Inaugural director of Jones Center says philanthropy paved the... May 2, 2022 In July 2020, University of Cincinnati alumnus Bill Morelli, A&S ’74, JD ’78, gave $200,000 to support a center at the law school focused on race, gender, and social justice. WLWT: UC graduates largest class ever May 2, 2022 UC celebrates largest graduating class in its 200-year history in two-day commencement. New UC nursing grad joins mom in Children's OR April 29, 2022 New University of Cincinnati nursing graduate Maddie Bell and mother, Cary Bell, '19, will work together in the Cincinnati Children's operating room. Volunteer leader serves, unites fellow Bearcats-for-life April 28, 2022 Rusty Myers embodies best qualities of UC alumni family. UC Day of Giving proves it’s a remarkable time to be a Bearcat April 26, 2022 24-hour challenge raises more than $2.5 million for UC scholarships, programs, and more. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top