Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Career Education Career Education right arrow down arrow Get Experience right arrow down arrow Co-op right arrow down arrow Full-Time Co-op right arrow down arrow Cooperative Education Student Stories Co-op Majors Eligibility Support Working as a Co-op Options within Co-op Part-Time Co-op right arrow down arrow On-Campus Co-op Micro Co-op NEXT Apprenticeship right arrow down arrow For Students For Mid-Career Professionals For Work in Nonprofits Digital Skills Lab Remote Work Lab and Learning Center Go Global right arrow down arrow International Experience Program (IEP) right arrow down arrow Picture Yourself There Student Perspectives International Co-op Program Study Tours Design Your Own: Worldwide Experience Can I Afford to Go Abroad? Explore Healthcare Explore Research right arrow down arrow What Is Research? right arrow down arrow Research Process Presenting and Publishing How to Get Research Experience right arrow down arrow Student-Initiated Contact Mentored Research Programs Funding Course Credit Exploring Research Group Consultations Undergraduate Research Society Grad-Undergrad Research Connections right arrow down arrow How the Program Works Graduate Research Mentor Training Summer Learning Community Undergraduate Scholarly Showcase right arrow down arrow 2022 Presentations 2021 Presentations Research Mentor Awards Proceedings Undergraduate Research Fellowship Faculty and Staff Resources right arrow down arrow Faculty-Supervised Research Collaborate & Innovate right arrow down arrow Recent Projects What Students Say Make a Difference right arrow down arrow Service Learning Co-op National Co-op Ambassador Scholarship Courses right arrow down arrow Professional Development Pre-Health Courses Inquiry to Innovation right arrow down arrow Current Offerings UC Forward Certificates right arrow down arrow Innovation and Commercialization Design Thinking Forces of Change Service Learning Collaboratory Exploring Work Abroad International Study Tours Cybersecurity Study Tour Co-op Course Sequence Career Studio right arrow down arrow Choosing a Career right arrow down arrow Know Yourself Explore Majors and Careers right arrow down arrow What Can I Do with this Major? Informational Interviewing Get Focused Take Action Ways to Get Experience Job Search right arrow down arrow Resume and Curriculum Vitae (CV) right arrow down arrow How to Write a Resume How to Write a Curriculum Vitae (CV) Writing Bullet Points VMock Virtual Resume Assistant Cover Letters Professional Profile right arrow down arrow Professional Portraits Elevator Speech Where to Look for Jobs right arrow down arrow How to Prepare for a Career Fair Avoid Fraudulent Job Postings Prepare for Interviews right arrow down arrow Interview Practice Sample Interview Questions STAR Method Illegal Interview Questions How to Dress for an Interview Negotiate a Job Offer Graduate School Planning right arrow down arrow Research and Evaluate Graduate Programs Application Timeline Entrance Exams Application Essays Paying for Graduate School Handshake right arrow down arrow Handshake Profile Jobs in Handshake Events in Handshake Career Center in Handshake About Us right arrow down arrow Career Coaching Walk-In Career Coaching Career Coaching by Appointment Where We're Located Other UC Career Offices Vendor Inquiries Employers and Partners Events right arrow down arrow Virtual Career Fairs Professional and Technical Career Fair E2C: Engaging Emerging Creatives Undergraduate Scholarly Showcase Healthcare Workforce Diversity Symposium About right arrow down arrow Faculty and Staff Publications right arrow down arrow Post-Graduation Outcomes right arrow down arrow Self-Report Your First Destination Find Us Request a Presentation Vendor Inquiries COVID-19 Updates Home » Campus Life » Career Education » Career Studio » Ways to Get Experience Set Navigation title in component Choosing a Career Know Yourself Explore Majors and Careers What Can I Do with this Major? Informational Interviewing Get Focused Take Action Ways to Get Experience Job Search Resume and Curriculum Vitae (CV) How to Write a Resume How to Write a Curriculum Vitae (CV) Writing Bullet Points VMock Virtual Resume Assistant Cover Letters Professional Profile Professional Portraits Elevator Speech Where to Look for Jobs How to Prepare for a Career Fair Avoid Fraudulent Job Postings Prepare for Interviews Interview Practice Sample Interview Questions STAR Method Illegal Interview Questions How to Dress for an Interview Negotiate a Job Offer Graduate School Planning Research and Evaluate Graduate Programs Application Timeline Entrance Exams Application Essays Paying for Graduate School Handshake Handshake Profile Jobs in Handshake Events in Handshake Career Center in Handshake About Us Career Coaching Walk-In Career Coaching Career Coaching by Appointment Where We're Located Other UC Career Offices Vendor Inquiries Ways to Get Experience The University of Cincinnati has one of the largest experience-based learning programs in the world, with more than 37,000 students participating in some form each year. Getting experience enables you to: Discover your strengths, interests and passions Discover what kind of work you want (and don’t want) to do Make informed choices about major and career Begin to build a professional network "Co-op 2.0," or Co-op for All, builds on UC’s historic expertise in cooperative education and seeks to expand experience-based learning to all corners of the university. The vision is that all baccalaureate students will graduate with work experience that is career-oriented, transcripted, and compensated. Along with Co-op 2.0, the Bearcat Promise is that every baccalaureate student will graduate with both a diploma and a plan for their career and professional development. Ways to Get Experience as a UC Student Formal Co-op right arrow down arrow Cooperative education, or co-op, is a formal educational model in which the student alternates semesters working full-time in the field and taking classes full-time on campus. Cooperative education was developed by Hermann Schneider at the University of Cincinnati in 1906 and has been practiced continually here ever since. Students typically must complete three to five co-op semesters to graduate Students take a sequence of courses to learn how to succeed in a job search and on the job Students meet regularly with their faculty co-op advisor to actively reflect on their learning Students can substitute an alternative experience, such as coding, entrepreneurship, study abroad, research, and more, for one co-op rotation Formal co-op is: Mandatory for students in the College of Engineering and Applied Science Mandatory for students in the College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning (DAAP) Mandatory for Information Technology majors in the College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services Optional for Communication majors in the College of Arts and Sciences Optional for Medical Laboratory Science majors in the College of Allied Health Sciences Students in the Lindner College of Business follow a model more like flexible co-op (see next section) Engineering and Applied Science Co-op IT Co-op DAAP Co-op Communication Co-op Medical Laboratory Science Co-op Flexible Co-op right arrow down arrow Flexible co-ops, sometimes called internships, are work experiences that are related to a student's academic program and career goals. Ideally, the work is also compensated, though sometimes it is not. Features of flexible co-op that distinguish it from formal co-op: Can be part-time or full-time A student can complete one experience or more than one Open to students in any major outside the formal co-op majors Some majors in the College of Arts and Sciences provide multiple co-op plan pathways to graduation The Lindner College of Business calls these Lindner Professional Experiences. Visit the Lindner Professional Experiences FAQs to learn more. Students who do a flexible co-op can take a companion online course to learn professional development concepts and receive academic credit for their experience. Download our guide: How to Receive Academic Credit for an Internship Flexible Co-op at UC Lindner Career Services On-Campus Co-op right arrow down arrow In on-campus co-op, students work on campus part-time while completing an online course in professional development. How is "on-campus co-op" different from a "student worker" position? In an on-campus co-op, you: Have more responsibility (for example, ownership of a project) Do active learning and self-reflection through an online companion course Learn to identify and articulate your transferable (cross-cutting) skills In addition, an on-campus co-op aligns with the expanded definition of co-op - work that is meaningful, transcripted, requires academic preparation, and involves goal-setting and active reflection by the student. On-Campus Co-op at UC Micro Co-op or Project Work right arrow down arrow A small but growing number of people now work for multiple clients on multiple projects on a short-term contract basis. Sometimes called "gig work," project work or “micro co-ops” are often done remotely, rather than at the client's site. Preparing you for this aspect of the future of work is an emerging area for UC. Parker Dewey is the preferred platform for employers that offer project work and UC student freelancers to find each other. Micro Co-op at UC Service-Learning right arrow down arrow Service-Learning is an approach to education that pushes you outside the classroom to produce work of real value to a community organization as part of a course or through a service-learning co-op. Research shows that when students do service-learning, they learn better because the stakes are higher. When their work has real consequences for real people, students tend to absorb the lessons more thoroughly and retain them more effectively. How to find service-learning experiences: Look in the course catalog for any course with the Service Learning “S” attribute Take the Service Learning Collaboratory course Work and get paid as a Service-Learning Co-op Service-Learning at UC UC Forward right arrow down arrow UC Forward pulls students from diverse majors onto trans-disciplinary teams with faculty and outside experts to come up with solutions to real-world problems. In doing so, UC Forward develops tomorrow's workforce in unique and relevant ways. Students learn techniques of innovation while the external partner gains fresh, workable solutions to a complex problem or challenge. Unlike most courses, which typically consist of students in the same major, UC Forward courses deliberately attract students from different disciplines to work on a problem together, much like teams in the real world. UC Forward enthusiastically welcomes students from all majors, minors, and academic disciplines. Students can get this experience in several ways: Take an Inquiry to Innovation course Take the Corporate Challenge Collaborative (PD 5100) course - new in Fall 2020 Earn one of three UC Forward Certificates Look in the course catalog for courses with the "T" (Transformational) attribute; these courses all incorporate a UC Forward-style learning experience UC Forward Go Abroad right arrow down arrow Today’s employers are looking for candidates who possess global and intercultural fluency. Going abroad either to work or to study can build your resume and distinguish you from other candidates in a job search. Work Abroad International experiential learning allows students to apply classroom knowledge in a real-world setting while gaining a better understanding of a given field in a global context. International experience-based learning encompasses academic internships, cooperative education, research, and service-learning. Study Abroad Studying abroad is an excellent way to develop cultural fluency. It gives you the chance to experience and learn from diverse cultures, races, ages, genders, sexual orientations, and religions while exploring the world. Your global experiences will help you develop and demonstrate openness, inclusiveness, sensitivity, and the ability to interact respectfully with all people. Whether your trip is one week, one semester or an academic year, there are international programs that fit different budgets, academic disciplines, personal interests, and schedules. Every year, more than 1,700 UC students study abroad, and students from each college visit more than 50 countries. Work Abroad Study Abroad Research right arrow down arrow Research is a systematic study of a narrow topic that results in an intellectual or creative contribution to the discipline. it takes place in every discipline, not just STEM fields, and as a UC student, you have great opportunities to contribute to faculty research or do original research yourself. The Office of Undergraduate Research at UC develops resources and systems that connect undergraduate students to research experiences, prepares them for success, and celebrates their achievements. Ways to Explore Research at UC If you are a... Check out... Description Student at any level Explore Research Gateway to undergraduate research experience at UC Undergraduate student who are curious about research as a possible career Ready for Research Connections Students discuss introductory videos and get connected with a more experienced student to learn about working in research Undergraduate student with some research experience Undergraduate Research Society Network of student researchers across all disciplines who support one another Undergraduate student with some research experience Undergraduate Scholarly Showcase Event where hundreds of students from across the university present their scholarly work in posters and podium presentations Undergraduate student with some research experience Summer Workshops Interactive, discipline-inclusive workshops to help student researchers learn better organization, communication and codes of conduct Graduate student Grad-Undergrad Research Connections Network of graduate students across all disciplines who meet with curious undergraduates to talk about their work and experience in research Research at UC Healthcare right arrow down arrow Students who are interested in the health professions have several options for getting career-related experience and coaching. Health professions include medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, veterinary medicine, physician assistant, podiatry, optometry, public health, physical therapy and others. Pre-Professional Advising Center The Pre-Professional Advising Center (PPAC) works with pre-health undergraduate students and alumni who aspire to attend a health professional school after completing their undergraduate degree. The PPAC offers a wealth of information for pre-health students including an overview of experiential learning opportunities. Pre-Health Courses UC offers pre-health professional development courses to help you explore healthcare careers and prepare competitive applications to graduate school. Clinicals Clinicals are an established practice in healthcare education. Students shadow working professionals on the job to observe, ask questions, and gain hands-on experience. At UC, students' clinical experiences and assessments are managed by their home college. Nursing students can explore experiential learning opportunities in nursing. Students interested in Allied Health Sciences can review clinical, practicum or field experiences based on program requirements. Experiential learning opportunities in the Medical Sciences baccalaureate program include research, community service, and study abroad. Nursing Allied Health Sciences Medicine - Medical Sciences Student Teaching right arrow down arrow Student teaching, sometimes called practicum, is an established practice in undergraduate education programs, where students who are preparing to become teachers practice their emerging skills in a K-12 classroom under the guidance of a mentor teacher. At UC, student teaching experiences and assessment are managed by the student’s home college: School of Education within the College of Education, Criminal Justice and Human Services Music Education program within College-Conservatory of Music (CCM) Education Music Education Peer Tutor right arrow down arrow If you are strong in a subject, you can get paid to tutor other students in it. Tutors support more than 300 undergraduate courses in math, science, languages, business, writing and more. Peer tutors are employed by the Learning Commons. To learn more, contact the Learning Commons or search for open on-campus positions in Handshake. Teaching Assistant right arrow down arrow Being a teaching assistant (TA) lets you see what it’s like to teach in higher education. If you have done well in a course, consider asking to serve as a TA for that course in future semesters. Assistantships allow you to get hands-on teaching experience and build important skills like effective oral and written communication, leadership, and collaboration. In some cases, undergraduate teaching assistants perform tasks typically performed by graduate students, such as preparing to teach a class, live instruction, or grading and proctoring exams. Since teaching assistants are typically supervised by a full-time faculty member, being an assistant will expose you to that professor’s teaching philosophy and style. Being a TA gives you an opportunity to form a relationship with a professor in an area of interest and thereby expand your professional network. To become a TA, contact the course instructor or look for opportunities periodically posted to UC’s Jobs page. Performance right arrow down arrow Students preparing for careers in music, dance, theatre, or production rehearse and perform for live audiences. At UC, this form of experiential learning is managed by the home college, primarily the College-Conservatory of Music (CCM). To learn more, explore areas of interest within CCM and discover what experiential learning through performance could look like for you. College-Conservatory of Music Part-Time Jobs right arrow down arrow No matter where you work, you can gain valuable skills and experience that employers look for. Although a part-time job may not be directly related to your long-term career goals, you can still develop transferable skills such as communication, professionalism, leadership and more through the experience. How to Find Part-Time Jobs UC’s Part-Time Job Fair features local Cincinnati companies and organizations (including the University of Cincinnati) who are eager to hire students for part-time jobs and internships. You can look for part-time jobs in Handshake, a powerful job search tool that the University of Cincinnati provides free to all UC students and alumni. You can also check out online job aggregators, which pull together job listings from many sources into one searchable location. Searching aggregators lets you quickly scan for part-time jobs in your geographic area that match your interests. (A word of caution: When using a job aggregator, be wary of online scams and fraudulent job postings.) Popular job aggregators include: Indeed Ohio Means Jobs Kentucky Career Center Indiana Career Connect Monster Glassdoor On-Campus Co-ops and Micro Co-ops When thinking of part-time jobs, remember on-campus co-ops and micro co-ops. These jobs are often part-time and/or can be done remotely, meaning they can fit easily into a busy schedule. Student Clubs and Organizations right arrow down arrow Get involved, gain resume-building experience, and build a network of peers by joining a student organization. At UC, more than 400 student organizations support a variety of political, cultural, academic, and social interests. Search CampusLINK to find student organizations that appeal to you. Search CampusLINK Volunteering right arrow down arrow More than just helping out in the community, volunteering can be a great way to get experience, build your professional network, explore your interests, and learn what kinds of job functions or work environments you enjoy. UC Center for Community Engagement The Center for Community Engagement (CCE) connects the Bearcat community to the Cincinnati community through community service. Whether you want a semester-long engagement, a one-time volunteer shift, or anything in between, this is a great resource. Search for Opportunities on Your Own These searchable databases can turn up volunteer opportunities that might be just right for you: Cincinnati Cares Volunteer Match United Way of Greater Cincinnati Unsure what volunteering could look like for you? No problem! You can always meet with a career coach to discuss which volunteer options will best support your career goals. Explore Ways to Get Experience Start Looking for Jobs See a Career Coach Experience-Based Learning and Career Education Steger Student Life Center P.O. Box 210115 Cincinnati OH 45221-0115 513-556-2667 careereducation@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Experience-Based Learning and Career Education Steger Student Life Center P.O. Box 210115 Cincinnati OH 45221-0115 513-556-2667 careereducation@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top