Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics People Research Outreach News/Events Dr. Jessica Larsen’s Creative Inquiry students work to enhance CT imaging of brain tumors "The department is building upon its legacy of excellence through groundbreaking research, the education of a record number of students, exciting new STEM outreach activities, and collaborations with industry that bring Clemson’s ideas to the world." David A. Bruce, Ph.D. Department Chair Virtual Tour Welcome to the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering in the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences at Clemson University. View Chemical Engineering Overview Accreditation Giving Newsletters News Visitors Faculty Appointment Tenure-Track/Tenured Faculty The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at Clemson University invites applications for a tenure-track or tenured faculty appointment, which can be at any level commensurate with the candidate’s experience and achievements, with a Professorship available for accomplished candidates. Clemson is a Carnegie “Very High Research Activity” (R1) University and is located on the shores of Lake Hartwell in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains halfway between Atlanta and Charlotte, combining excellent cost-of-living with accessible work-life-family balance. We enroll over 24,000 students, including over 5,000 ethnic minorities and 1,500 international students. Outstanding individuals with established research programs in the broad biomedical and/or biotechnology areas are of particular interest. Candidates must have earned a Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering or a closely related field. Exceptional scholars who can contribute to the diversity of our academic community are strongly encouraged to apply. Qualifications Candidates must have earned a Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering or a closely related field. Exceptional scholars who can contribute to the diversity of our academic community are strongly encouraged to apply. Application Instructions To apply, please upload a cover letter, curriculum vitae, detailed research plan, statement of teaching philosophy and interests, and the names and contact information for at least three references to the position application in Interfolio. The anticipated start date is Summer/Fall 2022. Applications received by November 21st, 2021 will receive full consideration, with the review process continuing until the position is filled. Top News May 04 ‘Mama Lisa’ is a Clemson University masterpiece Read More Apr 25 ‘Model’ student Ricardo García Cárcamo takes a different path than most Read More Apr 25 Ph.D. student Missoury Lytle helps bring women together Read More Nov 29 Rachel Getman goes above and beyond for students during the pandemic Read More Copyright © Clemson University Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | 127 Earle Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 (864) 656-3056 | Email Us