Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links FVP Menu Main Nav FVP Back Back Close About Departments Overview Associate Treasurer Endowment Risk Management Budget Controller Internal Audit Procurement Services Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Procurement Services Home Departments Procurement Services Procurement Services' mission is to excel at delivering value by being a front-end strategic partner with the Boston College community; research, teaching, administration, and all practice missions by leveraging the overall purchasing power of the institution, establishing a world-class supply base and providing superior customer service by dispersing university funds in an accurate, timely, and reliable manner to achieve a sustainable focus and competitive advantages. Boston College Purchasing professionals and those personnel with procurement responsibility must have a highly developed sense of professional ethics to protect their own and Boston College’s reputation for fair dealing. To strengthen ethical awareness, and to provide guidelines to staff, Boston College Procurement Services promotes the Boston College Procurement Code of Ethics. Doing Business With BC Credit Information Tax Information Supplier Diversity Doing Business With BC ANNOUNCEMENTS 2022-Jan: Temporary Masking Period: January 14-31, 2022 Given upcoming global and domestic travel by members of the BC community, as well as the current high levels of transmissibility of the Omicron variant, the University will institute a temporary masking requirement on campus whenever physical distancing cannot be maintained. This masking period will be from Friday, January 14, corresponding with the return of students, through Monday, January 31, 2022. 2021-Oct: UPDATED POST COVID-19 Requirements for Vendors, Contractors and Suppliers Please Read the Above Important Notice in Its Entirety: It is Effective Immediately “We are strongly encouraging all of our vendors, contractors and suppliers to get vaccinated if they are going to be on our campus. Anyone not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 is required to wear a mask at all times while on Boston College’s campus, both indoors and outdoors.” This information may be of relevance to companies who are doing business, or wish to do business, with Boston College. Boston College is a diverse community and requires a great deal of resources to keep it running well. Your help in providing these resources is greatly appreciated. We hope you find this information helpful. If you require additional information, please contact the Procurement Services Office at 617-552-3055 or by e-mail at purchase@bc.edu. In order to pre-qualify to provide goods or services to Boston College, email purchase@bc.edu with a brief description of the services your company provides and any other relevant information. Your information will be forwarded to the appropriate buyer. Helpful Links for Suppliers Standard Terms and Conditions for Boston College Purchases Supplier Ethics Policy Boston College's Procurement Code of Ethics Risk Management Insurance Requirements Conflict Minerals Contract Provision Independent Contractor Policy Copyright/Logo Use Use of the name and/or logo of Boston College are restricted by the University. For information concerning their use, please see the University Communications Policies and Guidelines. Supplier Registration Forms All new Companies or Individuals providing services or goods to Boston College must register as a Supplier. U.S Supplier or Individual Registration Form – Used for all U.S. Businesses, Independent Contractors and Honorarium or Award recipients Non-U.S. Supplier or Individual Registration Form – Used for all Foreign Businesses/Entities or Individuals W-8BEN (Foreign Individuals) W-8BEN-E (Foreign Entities) - For payments subject to U.S. reporting and taxation W-8BEN-E-BC (Foreign Entities) - For payments not subject to U.S. reporting and taxation Credit Information Boston College’s financial information is available online on the Controller’s webpage. Trade References WB Mason 647 Summer Street Boston, MA 02210 508-726-0987 Account representative: Jeff DePaul jeff.depaul@wbmason.com Metropolitan Pipe and Supply Co 30 Inner Belt Rd Sommerville, MA 02143 617-492-6400 Account Rep: Lenny Mangano Accounting/Reporting: Bob Keating/CJ Kanouff Creative Office Pavilion 303 Binney St. Cambridge, MA 02141 617-492-6400 Account representative: Meghan McDonnell Meghan.mcdonnell@cop-inc.com W-9 Form To access a completed signed W-9 Form for any Grantor, Contractor, Donor or other Payor requesting a W-9 Form to make payments to Boston College download the form below. W-9 – Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification Tax Exempt Forms Boston College is exempt from Massachusetts State Sales Tax as a non-profit organization. This exempt status should only be used for purchases made for BC business. Goods and services purchased from out-of-state vendors for delivery and use in Massachusetts are exempt from sales tax if they are used in the conduct of the University's exempt enterprise, i.e. education and research. The University is not exempt from the Room Tax levied by hotels, motels and inns in Massachusetts or any other state or city charging room tax. As a general rule, Boston College is not exempt from Massachusetts Meals Tax. ST-2 Certificate of Exemption ST-5 Sales Tax Exempt Purchaser Certificate ST-5C Contractor's Sales Tax Exempt Purchase Certificate ST-4 Sales Tax Resale Certificate ST-12 Exempt Use Certificate For 501(c)(3) form, contact the Controller's Office @ 617.552.2729 for a copy of the Exempt Status Determination Letter Other states where Boston College is exempt: New York Florida Rhode Island Connecticut Maine Virginia Supplier Diversity In recent years, higher education institutions have made commitments to explore and create a strategic plan to enhance diversity, equity, and inclusion within their organizations. Procurement Services supports the mission of the University by promoting a culture that embraces diversity and inclusion for all members of the Boston College community. The social justice movement and string of recent systematic injustice events have expedited the need for Sourcing & Procurement across institutions to establish a formal Supplier Diversity Program to create a more diverse and inclusive supplier base and to provide increased access and opportunity to underrepresented diverse businesses, both locally and nationally, to provide products and service to each institution's community. Boston College will in 2021 and 2022 identify and implement a third-party capable of helping the university to establish a baseline of current, contracted spend with diverse businesses. Establishing a “current state” is critically important in bringing credibility to a potential program, and it serves as the launching point in establishing key performance indicators to measure the programs continuous improvement. Rev Date: 2/2021 More Info About Procurement Services For BC community members Contact Purchasing/Sourcing: 617-552-3055 Accounts Payable: 617-552-3366 Directions Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Financial Vice President & Treasurer 129 Lake St., Suite 540 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4191 About Departments Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College