Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Register Quick Guide Errors/Problems Holds Permits Auditing Elite Student Audit Late Add/Late Registration Complete Self Service Guides Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Register Requesting Class Permits Requesting Class Permits A permit is required to register for a course section that is closed to you because it is full or has been labeled "restricted" or "permit required" by the academic department. For almost all subjects, you must request a permit from the academic department offering the subject. However, there are some exceptions. Click on the appropriate link to determine which office you should contact for a permit. University of Memphis subjects (excluding TN eCampus) Subjects Offered by TN eCampus If the department/unit agrees to allow you to register for the course, it will issue an electronic "permit" in the University's registration system. Until it issues this permit, the system will not allow you to register for the class. Important Points to Remember About Permits The Registrar's Office cannot issue permits: only academic departments or advising units can. A permit gives you permission to register for a class: you, yourself, must actually register for the class through the online registration system. To see if a department has issued you a permit, check your "Registration Status" screen in Student Self Service. If the online registration system will not allow you to register for the class, even though the department/unit agreed to issue a permit, contact the office again and explain the problem. The office will need to determine if it issued the permit correctly or if it needs to issue an additional permit or permits. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/14/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.