Commencement 2022 May 23-26, 2022 Commencement Schedule Regalia Frequently Asked Questions Ceremony Information Where is Commencement? Commencement is held on campus in Titan Stadium and on the Intramural Field. The location of your ceremony is based on your area of study. Check the schedule and determine what day, time and location your ceremony will be. How do I participate in Commencement? All graduates of the Class of 2022 who have Candidate status may now register. What if I don’t have the link/icon to register in my student portal? Only Fall 2021 graduates with “Degree Awarded” on their transcript or Spring 2022 and Summer 2022 with “Candidate” status are able to register. If you are a Fall 2021 graduate, you may check your status on your unofficial transcript (from your Student Homepage, click “Academic Records,” then “View Transcript.”) If you are a candidate for spring or summer 2022, check your graduation status by logging in to your Student Homepage, then click on the Academic Records tile, then click on Academic Summary on the left. Your status is displayed under your expected graduation term. What do I need to participate? Basic regalia (cap, gown, and tassel) is required. CSUF is introducing custom regalia this year! Regalia, as well as many other Commencement related items, can be purchased at Titan Shops beginning in April, even for Fall 2021 grads. What should I wear under my regalia? Temperatures can be warm. We recommend you wear light comfortable clothing under your regalia. You will be standing in the grad line-up area for up to an hour. In both venues you will be walking on grass to get to your seats so high heels are not recommended. Where do I get my stoles and cords? Stoles may be purchased through Titan Shops. Cords are not sold. Colleges that use cords for honors or group distinctions will be responsible for distributing them. What can I expect at my ceremony? You will arrive one hour prior the start of your ceremony to a designated Grad Line-up location to receive directions. (Guests are not permitted in the Grad Line-up areas.) The Grad Line-up area for Titan stadium is Parking Lot A South. The Grad Line-up area for the Intramural Field is Titan Track. Your ceremony will begin with a processional of graduates. The program will include speeches from your Dean and/or President Virjee or Provost Thomas, classmates and faculty from your college. Your name will be announced and you will walk across the stage to receive a certificate of participation. At the very end, your degree will be ceremonially conferred by the moving of your tassel. Your ceremony will be approximately two and a half hours. What is a Grad Pass? Your Grad Pass is essentially your ticket for Commencement and will be issued to you in May. Your Grad Pass will have a unique QR code that contains your graduate data, including how to pronounce your name. You will need to have your Grad Pass printed or the digital version on your phone in order to participate in your ceremony. Just before you cross the stage you will scan the QR code on your Grad Pass in order for your name to be read. Your Grad Pass has an image of Tuffy in regalia (cap and gown) on it. Guest tickets have an image of the University seal on them. Make sure you don’t mistake a guest ticket for your Grad Pass as guest tickets do not contain your grad data. Are there any COVID restrictions? No. Face coverings will be provided but are not required. County and State Health Department COVID restrictions and regulations are subject to change at any time. How will my guests participate? Ceremony Site entrances open one hour prior to the start of your ceremony. Guests must present their tickets to be scanned before they will be admitted. They will then be directed to a seating area by ushers. Seating is first-come, first-served. Those requiring accommodations may be seated in the reserved ADA section with one companion. Where can my guests and I park? Parking on campus during Commencement is complimentary. No parking passes are needed. The University encourages you to carpool to campus on the day of Commencement as parking is limited. Titan Stadium Ceremonies: General parking will be in lot A. Disabled guests will be directed to lot G until full. Intramural Field Ceremonies: General parking will be in the Eastside North Parking Structure. Disabled guests will be directed to the State College Parking Structure until full. View Commencement map What if I or my guests need ADA accommodations? Disability Access Requests can be submitted until Friday, May 6th via the Commencement Accessibility page What should I bring? All you need is your regalia and GradPass with the image of Tuffy in regalia on it (digital or printed). What should my guests bring? Your guests will each need their own guest ticket with the image of the University seal on them (digital or printed). The following items are not permitted on campus for Commencement: Noisemakers of any kind Balloons Silly String Confetti Glitter Flash photography How can I request international invitation letter? To request an international invitation letter, please visit: https://extension.fullerton.edu/international/letters-forms.aspx Go to Letter Requesting System and click on "Inviting Family to Visit the US” in the note section. Where can I grab a bite to eat or drink at Commencement? Food and beverage will be available for purchase at the Titan Student Union and the Pollak Library. Titan Student Union Restaurants and Hours: Starbucks: Monday - Wednesday: 8am - 7pm Thursday: 8am - 2pm Pieology: Monday - Wednesday: 10am - 7pm Thursday: 10am - 2pm Togo's: Monday - Wednesday: 10am - 7pm Thursday: 10am - 2pm Juice It Up!: Monday - Wednesday: 10am - 7pm Thursday: 10am - 2pm Pollak Library Starbucks Hours: Monday - Wednesday: 8am - 7pm Thursday: 8am - 2pm Titan Stadium Concessions: Monday: 4pm - 7pm Tuesday: 8am - 11am, and 4pm - 7pm Wednesday: 8am - 11am, and 4pm - 7pm Thursday: 4pm - 7pm Water Stations: Located on West Campus Drive and Gymnasium Drive Food Trucks:Located in front of Tuffy Lawn. For more campus dining information, visit csuffood.com Tickets Do I need tickets for my guests? Yes! We are excited to be able to increase the number of guest tickets from 2 in 2021 to 8 for the Spring 2022 ceremonies! You can access your guest tickets through the MarchingOrder tile in your student portal. How do I access my tickets? Log into your student portal to access MarchingOrder (the process is the same as when you logged in to register) Open your MarchingOrder registration page and scroll all the way down to the bottom to claim your 8 tickets. You will then have the option to email or print your guest tickets. You will be able to access and email or print your tickets up until your ceremony start time. Do children need tickets? Yes, all children over the age of 2 require a ticket. What if I have more than 8 people who want to watch me cross the stage? We are not able to allot more than 8 tickets per graduate but we have thought about your additional guests. All ceremonies will be livestreamed. The livestream links will be on the Commencement website 2 hours prior to the ceremony start time. The recorded ceremonies will remain on the Commencement website through Summer 2022 for playback. Can I purchase additional guest tickets? No, each grad is allotted 8 complimentary tickets. CSUF will not be selling additional tickets. Should you have a classmate who does not need all 8 of their tickets they can email the tickets to you for your use. Make sure your classmate is participating in the same ceremony you are. Each ticket has a unique QR code and can only be used for the ceremony it is assigned to. Still Have Questions? What’s the best way to learn more about Commencement? Check your CSUF email! Messages from commencement@fullerton.edu contain important information, deadlines and dates you need know. You should read these emails as they arrive in your inbox. Seriously. Read them. Check this website regularly. Follow CSUF on social media. Attend GradFest! April 12-14 at Titan Shops. Ask questions, purchase your regalia (cap and gown), join the Alumni Association and get deals on essential grad gear. Download the 2022 Commencement Map Get latest Commencement updates and helpful info on your mobile. This site is maintained by Strategic Communications. To report problems or comments, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved.