Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School Academic Events & Honors Awards Horace Mann Medal Graduate School Skip to Navigation Horace Mann Medal The Horace Mann Medal is given annually to a Brown Graduate School alumnus or alumna who has made significant contributions in his or her field, inside or outside of academia. Any graduate of a Brown advanced-degree program is eligible. The medal is awarded at Commencement exercises in May. A nomination should, at a minimum, include a strong supporting rationale for the nomination, expressed in a letter of nomination. Up to two additional supporting letters may also accompany the nomination. All nominations should be made through Brown UFunds (select the Graduate School Academic Honors button). The deadline is November 5, 2021. The final selection process takes place in late fall, in conjunction with the University's selection of honorary-degree recipients. (Nominations received after the deadline will be considered in the next round of review.) Selection news is announced in May. Note: Nominators/departments will be expected to assist the Graduate School in hosting the Medalist; guidelines will be provided if selected. This award was created in 2003 and replaced the Distinguished Graduate School Alumni Award. 2021-2022 Medal recipient: Brian G. Keating ‘95 Sc.M., ’00 Ph.D. The 2022 Horace Mann Medal is awarded to Brian G. Keating, the Chancellor’s Distinguished Professor of Physics at UC San Diego's Center for Astrophysics and Space Sciences. The Medal is awarded at Commencement to a Brown University Graduate School alum who has made significant contributions in their field. Join us on Saturday, May 28 at 12:30 pm at 85 Waterman Street for his forum presentation, Think Like Galileo Galilei: How to Remain Relevant for Half a Millennium. Keating is currently the principal investigator and director of the Simons Observatory Project Office, which is currently under construction in the Atacama Desert in northern Chile. This observatory will provide scientists a unique opportunity to study the nature of fundamental physical processes that have governed the origin and evolution of the universe. Over 270 scientists, engineers and technologists from over 35 institutions around the world are contributing to the project, making it the world’s largest cosmology collaboration, according to the project’s website. Read more. Learn about previous medal recipients Home About the Graduate School People Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Orientation Commencement Awards Events & Series Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Submit a Nomination on UFunds Brown Alumni Association News from Brown About Horace Mann Previous Medal Recipients Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants