Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES MUSIC MUSIC EDUCATION Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 MUSED 301 Techniques for Teaching Music to Children (2) VLPA Exercises and applied experiences in sight-singing and error detection, keyboard skills, record and instruments of the Orff ensemble relevant to the teaching of music to children. Prerequisite: either MUSIC 212 or MUSIC 302; MUSAP 135. Instructors: Campbell View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 301 MUSED 304 Introductory Music Methods I (2, max. 4) VLPA Morrison Comprehensive examination of materials for training beginning vocal and instrumental students. Topics include recruiting, motivation, and problems associated with evaluation. Methods of starting beginners and rehearsing ensembles are demonstrated with techniques addressing problems unique to public school ensemble instruction. Must be taken concurrently with MUSED 301; MUSED 340. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 304 MUSED 305 Introductory Music Methods II (2, max. 4) VLPA Morrison Comprehensive examination of materials for training beginning vocal and instrumental students. Topics include recruiting, motivation, problems associated with evaluation. Methods of starting beginners and rehearsing ensembles are demonstrated with techniques addressing problems unique to public school ensemble instruction. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 305 MUSED 306 Introductory Music Methods III (2, max. 4) VLPA Morrison Comprehensive examination of materials for training beginning vocal and instrumental students. Topics include recruiting, motivation, problems associated with evaluation. Methods of starting beginners and rehearsing ensembles are demonstrated with techniques addressing problems unique to public school ensemble instruction. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 306 MUSED 340 Music in Education (3) VLPA An orientation to the broad scope of issues regarding music in the schools (K-12), including curriculum, the development of instructional strategies, and evaluation techniques. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 340 MUSED 401 Tin Pan Alley: Concepts and Teaching Strategies for Music Educators (1) VLPA Overview of Tin Pan Alley phenomenon that dominated the American popular music industry for nearly 70 years. For music educators. Focuses on cooperative learning strategies and performance considerations in the school environment. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 401 MUSED 402 Rock and Roll Roots for Music Educators (1) VLPA Overview of the musical and cultural roots of American Rock and Roll for music educators. Explores teaching strategies and performance possibilities in the school environment. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 402 MUSED 403 Part-Time Student Teaching in Music (6) VLPA Campbell, Morrison Supervised teaching internship. Directed observations of distinguished teachers in an elementary or secondary music setting. Weekly seminars. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 403 MUSED 404 Full-Time Student Teaching in Music (15) VLPA Supervised teaching internship. Directed observations of distinguished teachers in an elementary or secondary music setting. Weekly seminars. Prerequisite: MUSED 403. Instructors: Campbell, Morrison Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 404 MUSED 405 Marching Band Technique (2) VLPA McDavid, Morrison, Salzman Basics of marching and maneuvering discussed and used to write drill. Covers selection of music, use of marching procession, and show design. Students complete a drill for their own band or for an instrumentation determined by the instructor. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 405 MUSED 410 Instrumental Rehearsal Techniques (3) VLPA Salzman Includes score preparation, rehearsal formats, and error detection. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 410 MUSED 431 Curriculum in Music Education (3) VLPA Campbell, Morrison Principles and practices of curriculum design applied to the development of the music curriculum. Individual or group work on elementary and secondary school music curriculum projects. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 431 MUSED 432 Comprehensive Music in the Secondary School (3) VLPA The teaching of music and its literature in music classes other than traditional ensembles from grade six through adults. Prerequisite: MUSED 340. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 432 MUSED 440 Music for Children (3) VLPA Identification and selection of appropriate objectives, materials, teaching strategies, and evaluation techniques used in teaching music from birth through grade five, with consideration of various approaches (e.g., Delcroze, Kodaly, Orff) for the musical development of children. Prerequisite: MUSED 302; MUSED 340 Instructors: Campbell View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 440 MUSED 442 Instrumental Curriculum: Methods and Materials (3) VLPA Study of the organization and administration of school instrumental music; the selection and use of materials and teaching strategies from beginning to advanced levels of instrumental instruction. Prerequisite: MUSED 340. Instructors: Morrison View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 442 MUSED 443 Choral Curriculum: Methods and Materials (3) VLPA Study of the organization and administration of school choral music; the selection and use of materials and teaching strategies from beginning to advanced levels of choral instruction. Prerequisite: MUSED 340. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 443 MUSED 452 Ethnomusicology in the Schools (3) VLPA, DIV Patricia Campbell Examines questions of diversity, equity, and inclusion in school and community music practice, with attention to ways of achieving multicultural-intercultural sensitivity through music. Prerequisite: MUSED 340. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 452 MUSED 453 Approaches to Classroom Instruction: K-12 (3) VLPA Examines such major instructional approaches as MMCP, Orff, Kodaly, and Dalcroze. Included are the philosophy of each and the methods, materials, and instructional skills needed for classroom application. Prerequisite: MUSED 403. Instructors: Campbell View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 453 MUSED 465 Classroom Management and Evaluation in Music Education (3) VLPA Provides future teachers with strategies and techniques for classroom management, motivation, assessment, and evaluation for applications to K-12 school music programs. Prerequisite: MUSED 340. Instructors: Morrison View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 465 MUSED 475 Teaching the Music of Selected Cultures (1, max. 6) VLPA Campbell Music and culture of a specific world region with particular attention to songs, stories, and instrumental pieces applicable to the teaching of music and the arts in elementary and secondary schools. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 475 MUSED 480 Music Methods for Classroom Teachers (3) VLPA Campbell Addresses the basic fundamentals of music and methods for teaching K-6 school children. Topics include repertoire appropriate for different age levels, methods and materials for integrating music into the K-6 curriculum. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 480 MUSED 496 Special Topics in Music Education (1-3, max. 10) VLPA Special studies designed to reflect contemporary emphases and concerns in the music education profession. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 496 MUSED 501 Introduction to Research in Music Education (3) Campbell, Morrison Seminar in research design and method with emphasis on identification of problems in music instruction, interpretation of data, and application of findings to classroom settings. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 501 MUSED 502 Quantitative Research in Music Education (3) Seminar in quantitative research utilizing experimental, quasi-experimental, and descriptive design, with emphasis on the pursuit of solutions to pedagogical problems through appropriate research procedures, analysis, and interpretation of findings. Prerequisite: MUSED 501. Instructors: Campbell, Morrison View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 502 MUSED 522 Psychology of Music Learning and Teaching (3) Campbell, Morrison Examines previous research in areas related to music cognition, including music perception, music performance, musical creativity, musical affect, musical preference, and social psychology. Explores how this research relates to curriculum and practice in music education. Role of theory, method, and procedure for psychological research in music education. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 522 MUSED 523 Tests and Measurement (3) Campbell, Morrison Examination of currently published aptitude and achievement tests in music and their uses in music education. Explores the basic methods for constructing classroom tests and their use in evaluation. Selected readings include researching test construction and application of tests and measurement to program evaluation. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 523 MUSED 524 Seminar in Music Education (3) Special problems in the teaching and supervision of music in the elementary grades. Prerequisite: one year of teaching experience. Instructors: Campbell, Morrison View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 524 MUSED 525 Seminar in Music Education (3) Special problems in the teaching and administration of music in the secondary school and community college. Prerequisite: one year of teaching experience. Instructors: Campbell, Morrison View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 525 MUSED 530 Administration and Supervision in Music Education (3) Campbell, Morrison Survey of issues in policy and systems for facilities, student/personnel, technology, school/community relations, and special programs in music education. Focuses on evaluating and improving existing programs. Includes supervision of student teachers. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 530 MUSED 535 Seminar in Musical Development (3) Campbell, Morrison Critical review of theories, methods of inquiry, designs, and conclusions of research in musical development from early childhood through adolescence. Emphasis on evaluating theories and methods of studying musical development and exploring their relationship to theories of general intellectual development; adult music cognition research; and curriculum and practice in music education. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 535 MUSED 540 History of American Music Education (3) Campbell, Morrison A chronological examination of individual, social, and political events, and educational philosophies, that characterized the development of music instruction in American schools from colonial times to the present. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 540 MUSED 542 Comparative Music Education (3) Campbell, Morrison A transcultural examination of philosophy and practice of music instruction. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 542 MUSED 550 Proseminar in Music Education (3) Campbell, Morrison Examination of the major literature in the philosophy, history, psychology, and sociology of formal school music instruction. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 550 MUSED 552 World Music Education (3) Campbell Seminar on issues of multiculturalism and the world music "movement" as they affect school music curriculum and instruction. Curricular content and cultural context examined in relation to teaching K-12 students, teachers, and undergraduate students in music education programs. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 552 MUSED 560 Contemporary Issues in Music Education (1-3, max. 6) Seminar focusing on review of literature on psychological and sociological aspects of music education, including historical and philosophical foundations of music education in the United States. Appropriate for MA students seeking guidance in preparation of topic for examinations. Prerequisite: MUSED 501. Instructors: Campbell, Morrison View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 560 MUSED 561 Seminar in Theories of Music Instruction (3, max. 9) Theories of music instruction, with special attention to curriculum, instructional procedures, and assessment of learning. Prerequisite: MUSED 501, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Campbell, Morrision View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 561 MUSED 575 Seminar in Music Education Research (1-3, max. 6) Campbell, Morrison Examines research and research-based issues relevant to music instruction and learning. Doctoral students should register each quarter until successful completion of general examination. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MUSED 575 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022