Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Forms and Guidelines Request a Workshop or Training about Sexual Violence Request a Workshop or Training about Sexual Violence February 26, 2018 Thank you for your interest in scheduling a workshop with Sexual Violence Response. If you are looking for an SVR presentation for new student orientation, please use this form. Please submit the workshop request form to schedule a workshop. Workshops listed below are available for students of Columbia University and affiliated schools. Workshops are divided into two categories: Foundational workshops and Next Level workshops. Faculty and staff can request a training by sending an email to [email protected]. The Workshop Request Form must be submitted at least four weeks prior to the requested date and the location must be reserved and confirmed at least one week in advance. Programs will be facilitated by SVR student volunteers and/or SVR professional staff. It is important to know that this page is not secure. If you have concerns about the sensitivity of the information being transmitted, please contact the sponsoring area or department at Columbia Health to discuss alternative means of sending information. Workshop Descriptions Foundational Level Workshops These sessions should last one to two hours. The following workshops serve as an introduction to Sexual Violence, bystander intervention, healthy relationships/sexuality, and/or support skills. Expand all Collapse all 1 Sexual Violence – definition(s), dynamics, and behaviors related to sexual violence, IPV, Stalking, Dating Violence and Sexual Harassment. IMPACT: Facts & Stats of Relationship Violence - Understand the definition and impact of relationship violence and learn how power and control can lead to abuse. Review the prevalence of relationship violence on college campuses. IMPACT: Facts & Stats of Sexual Violence - Understand the definitions and impact of sexual violence and sexual assault. Unpack common myths alongside facts about the impact of sexual violence on college campuses. IMPACT: Facts & Stats of Stalking - Understand the definition and impact of stalking and learn concrete response strategies for someone who is being stalked. Media Literacy in Print - The critical analysis and evaluation of different forms of media that influence a culture of interpersonal and power-based violence. Sexual Harassment: When Professional Development Is Compromised - Many students work, have internships, or field placements in a professional work environment where they strive to meet their professional goals daily. When sexual harassment is occurring in an environment where a lot of time is spent, the ability to have growth and experience well-being can become limited. This session will encourage participants to think critically about sexual harassment and possible ways to respond to sexual harassment. 2 The Power of Bystanders – barriers and skills development to intervene in situations of violence. Introduction to Step UP! - Learn about pro-social bystander intervention and understand safe, effective ways to intervene in situations of sexual violence, intimate partner violence, stalking, and harassment. 3 Consent and Healthy Relationships/Sexuality – communication, consent, and having positive sexual experiences and relationships. Relationships, Dates, & Hookups: What’s Healthy, What’s Not? – Learn about healthy relationship behaviors, the definition of sexual violence, and what sexual consent is and is not. Yes and Oh Yeah – Participants are introduced to sexual consent and its role in healthy relationships. Learn how to navigate consent using verbal communication skills and discuss how to keep the conversation going in a fun and clear manner. Consensual Queer – When mainstream models of consent often do not address your needs as someone from the LGBTQ+ community, this discussion will look to address the needs of this community, specifically with a focus on those who identify as queer and/or trans people. In this discussion, you will leave with new models of consent that speak to this specific community lens. "We Were on a Break" Negotiation and Communication – Ross & Rachel, the infamous couple from Friends who were rarely on the same page, are the inspiration to talk about communication and negotiation styles. Participants will watch excerpts from two of the most memorable episodes ("The One Where Ross & Rachel Take a Break"- Season 3, Episode 15 and "The One with the Jelly Fish"- Season 4, Episode 1) about miscommunication, then discuss communication in relationships and discover their personal approach with a quiz. 4 Services and Response – information on services and skills that support survivors and help people respond effectively to someone who discloses they have experienced violence. Responding to Disclosures – The goal of this workshop is to review how to intervene in situations of potential or active sexual violence and to prepare student on effective ways to respond when a fellow student discloses harm done to them. Supporting Someone Who Has Experienced Intimate Partner Violence – During this interactive session, participants will examine the behaviors and warning signs that may be indicators of an unhealthy or abusive relationship and understand how to gauge next steps in the event that a relationship becomes violent. Participants will also learn about different ways to effectively support someone who is in an abusive relationship. Next Level Workshops These sessions should last one to two hours. Requesting the following workshops means that you have an introductory level understanding of Sexual Violence, bystander intervention, healthy relationships/sexuality, and/or support skills. Expand all Collapse all 1 Sexual Violence – definition(s), dynamics, and behaviors related to sexual violence, IPV, Stalking, Dating Violence and Sexual Harassment. Advocate Abroad: Responding to Sexual Harassment Abroad – Many Columbia students work and study in countries all around the world, and these students should be well versed in how to manage issues of sexual harassment in their new environments. This workshop encourages participants to think critically about the intersections of cultural values, sexual harassment, and individual values before they embark on field work in another country. Loving Me Means This (impact of intimate partner violence version) – In the wake of relationship violence and trauma establishing healthy relationship dynamics can be particularly difficult. In this day and age is it increasingly common to romanticize toxic behaviors (Manson, 2015a). According to The Angry Therapist, John Kim (2016), “we focus so much on who we want to love, we forget about how we want to be loved.” In Loving Me Means This, students will considering what it means for a partner to love them, and then examine toxic relationship habits that most people believe are acceptable (Manson, 2015a), or even romantic, as well as healthy behaviors often considered venomous (Manson, 2015b). The goal is to unpack internalized toxicity regarding relationships – romantic and beyond. RelationShorts – Via the use of film and television clips, RelationShorts aims to provide time for students to explore the barriers to successful communication and negotiation regarding sexual relationships, and to analyze effective and ineffective methods. 2 Consent and Healthy Relationships/Sexuality – communication, consent, and having positive sexual experiences and relationships. Impact; Accountability – The goal of Impact; Accountability is to initiate campus cultural shifts in embracing humility, exercising accountability, and taking ownership of oversights by providing concrete techniques and scenarios on accountability and apologizing through experiential exercises and activities. In doing so, the facilitators also aim to highlight and recognize the spaces within the Columbia University campus culture where accountability is most needed and to ensure the impact of student actions and behaviors matches their intent. Loving Me Means This (boundaries version) – In this day and age is it increasingly common to romanticize toxic behaviors (Manson, 2015a). According to The Angry Therapist, John Kim (2016), “we focus so much on who we want to love, we forget about how we want to be loved.” In Loving Me Means This, students will considering what it means for a partner to love them, and then examine toxic relationship habits that most people believe are acceptable (Manson, 2015a), or even romantic, as well as healthy behaviors often considered venomous (Manson, 2015b). The goal is to explore what makes a relationship healthy for us. On Lines Crossed: Boundary Setting Online and IRL – Whether talking to someone through texts or in real life boundaries are important. Let’s talk about why! During the workshop On Lines Crossed: Boundary Setting from Online to IRL participants will be encouraged to explore what healthy boundaries are, and how to set them in budding relationships. Porn, Porn, Everywhere! – Since the Egyptians, Greeks, and Nomads, we could say that porn has always existed in some shape or form, from the oldest society to the newest YouTube video. The question really is, what do we think about it for ourselves? Through this discussion, we will examine our personal values about pornography and develop a framework for making decisions about pornography consumption. 3 Services and Response – information on services and skills that support survivors and help people respond effectively to someone who discloses they have experienced violence. What Can I Do? Empowerment Model to Support Others – Given the high rates of intimate partner, sexual, dating and domestic violence and stalking on college campuses, we may know someone experiencing these forms of violence. This can be a tough situation to deal with and you may not know what to do, how or if you would be able to support someone. In this session, participants will gain practical skills to effectively support a peer or friend who has been impacted by these forms of violence and an in-depth understanding of resources available on campus. Webform Name Title Email Telephone School, Department or Organization Workshop Selection Please select one workshop from the list below. (If you would like more than one workshop or would like support selecting a workshop, please indicate in the ‘Other Workshop’ text box below.) Select a Foundational Workshop - None -Facts & Stats of Relationship ViolenceFacts & Stats of Sexual ViolenceFacts & Stats of StalkingMedia Literacy in PrintSexual Harassement: When Professional Development Is CompromisedIntroduction to Step UP!Relationships, Dates, & Hookups: What's Healthy, What's Not?Yes and Oh YeahConsensual QueerSupporting Someone Who Has Experiences Intimate Partner Violence Select a Next Level Workshop - None -Sex, Violence, and Representation: Why Media Matters in Film and TelevisionAdvocate Abroad: Responding to Sexual Harassment Abroad#Cinderella2018: Is she still waiting for her shoe?Stop What You're Doing! Bystander Intervention and IntersectionalityPorn, Porn, Everywhere!Let's Talk! About Sex: Do You Know What To Do When?What Can I Do? Empowerment Model to Support OthersBeyond 50 Shades of Gray: Kink and Consent What do you hope program attendees will learn? Other Workshop Request Is this workshop being requested to fulfill a requirement? If so, please describe the requirement We encourage you to reach out at least 4 weeks in advance to meet your mandatory requirement. If you have a specific requirement need such as SRI or Alpha Standards and you require a session within the next two weeks, you can share that information in the question box. We will do our best to cater to your needs. Workshop Specifics Preferred Date Month - Select -JanuaryFebruaryMarchAprilMayJuneJulyAugustSeptemberOctoberNovemberDecember Day - Select -12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031 Year - Select -202120222023 Alternate Date Month - Select -JanuaryFebruaryMarchAprilMayJuneJulyAugustSeptemberOctoberNovemberDecember Day - Select -12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031 Year - Select -202320222021 Preferred Time Hour - Select -123456789101112 Minute - Select -00153045 AM/PM AM PM Alternate Time Hour - Select -123456789101112 Minute - Select -00153045 AM/PM AM PM Preferred Location Expected Number of Attendees: How do you plan to advertise for this event? AV Available? Yes No Additional Comments? Submit Document Categories Forms Document Topics Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close