Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Career Development Overview Center for Career Development Entrepreneurship Health Professions Advising Program in Teacher Preparation International Opportunities Graduate Students Postgraduate Fellowships Princeton AlumniCorps Overview Career Development Is a Journey A Princeton education will prepare you for success in whatever career path you choose. Our goal is to nurture the talents of each generation of Princeton students, empowering graduates who will flourish and change the world for the better. Throughout your time at Princeton, you will have access to numerous resources to help you design your visions for meaningful career paths and prepare for the future. Ideas for paths you may wish to pursue will come from many sources, and you are encouraged to develop your thoughts by talking with people on campus who are here to help you. Center for Career Development The Center for Career Development is a resource to help you design your future. The Center offers individual assistance on all aspects of career planning and decision-making, including: self-assessment; choice of major and career field; exploration of career-related interests; pursuit of internships and employment; and application to professional and graduate school. Graduate students also are encouraged to consult about navigating careers inside or outside academia. Networking Opportunities to connect abound. The Center for Career Development hosts events that bring together alumni and practitioners in many fields to engage with students about careers. Career fairs and workshops on topics such as working in the arts and STEM allow you to explore options. Campus recruiting visits and meetups, such as through HireTigers Career Fair, open doors to career prospects. Internships and Alumni You can explore numerous internship possibilities through The Center for Career Development, and there are also special programs to help you gain insights into diverse fields. Princeton's engaged alumni often provide meaningful ways for students to experience different work settings, such as: The Princeternship Program, which exposes undergraduate and graduate students to new industries and organizations, and facilitates connections with alumni. The program also offers group site visits, such as to health and media organizations in New York City. Through Princeton Internships in Civic Service, undergraduates can apply for 8-10 weeks of paid, alumni-sponsored nonprofit summer internships in a wide range of national and international organizations, including legal services, public policy, health and social services, environment and education. Peer Career Advisers Undergraduates can get input on career ideas and planning from fellow students through the Peer Career Adviser program. Entrepreneurship The University supports initiatives in entrepreneurship in a variety of ways, from academic courses to the Keller Center's startup incubator — the Entrepreneurial Hub — in downtown Princeton. Students also can shape their innovative ideas in the eLab, a summer accelerator program that culminates in a Demo Day competition. The Hub also provides team space for the Tiger Challenge, a co-curricular program that applies design thinking as a way to solve complex societal problems. The Princeton Start-Up Immersion Program is an immersive 10-week summer experience for students interested in gaining firsthand knowledge of early-state startups. Health Professions Advising The Office of Health Professions Advising helps students pursue graduate studies at medical, dental and veterinary school. Program in Teacher Preparation Through the Program in Teacher Preparation ("Teacher Prep"), students can earn New Jersey state subject area licensure to teach at the middle and/or secondary school levels in several subject areas. Teacher Prep alumni are classroom teachers and school administrators, and also work in education policy. International Opportunities Princeton's International Internship Program offers more than 400 internship opportunities in roughly 60 countries. Summer placements are arranged especially for Princeton undergraduates at nongovernmental organizations, private companies and public interest companies. The Center for Career Development also provides resources for students to identify international internships. Graduate Students The Graduate School provides programming relevant to all fields and inclusive of academic, administrative and industry careers. Professional development programs help graduate students weigh career options. More broadly, the University provides a range of resources such as writing support, teacher training and access to academic and professional workshops that graduate students are encouraged to explore. Postgraduate Fellowships Princeton students and alumni can deepen their academic and career interests through a range of postgraduate fellowships. Some fellowships are offered through Princeton; others are national or international. Some placements that offer immersive work experiences, foster cultural understanding and build community, are: Princeton in Africa Princeton in Asia Princeton in Latin America Princeton AlumniCorps Princeton AlumniCorps is an alumni-led nonprofit organization that fosters civic engagement among Princeton alumni, with a call to "engage at every age." More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice