Skip to Main Content Brown University Political Science Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Search Political Science Political Science at Brown University Political Science at Brown University The Political Science department enjoys a reputation for intellectual pluralism, creativity and research productivity. Political Science is one of the largest and most dynamic concentrations at Brown. Undergraduates gain skill in critical thinking, empirical analysis, and normative inquiry, preparing them for leadership careers in the public, nonprofit and private sectors. Our doctoral program features close interaction with professors and offers state-of-the art training in American politics, comparative politics, international relations, and political theory. The department is enriched by its close ties to key research centers, institutes, and programs at Brown, including the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, the Political Theory Project, the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America, Modern Culture and Media, Cogut Institute for the Humanities, and Urban Studies. Undergraduate Program The department graduates approximately 75 undergraduate concentrators annually, making it one of the larger social science concentrations at Brown. Graduate Program Brown's community of graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, visiting scholars, and faculty members in political science is a close and collegial one. Our Faculty Brown's Political Science faculty are deeply committed to excellence in both undergraduate teaching and graduate training. Recent News All news May 25, 2022 The Washington Post Men can help persuade other men on women’s rights, our research finds People do change their minds, even on issues like abortion, where attitudes have hardened. May 25, 2022 The Christian Science Monitor Why Fed says fighting inflation is Job 1, despite recession risk But the reality is that the Fed is the world’s de facto central bank, says Mark Blyth, a professor of international economics at Brown University. He reckons that if the Fed overshoots in raising rates it could trigger “the mother of all capital flights” from riskier financial assets into U.S. bonds and other securities. And that destabilizing scenario could stay the hands of Fed policymakers who might otherwise want to tighten more aggressively. May 23, 2022 The Indian Express Gyanvapi: Court must follow law not faith Attempt to reclaim mosque for Hindu religious purposes flatly contradicts the Constitution. Contact Us Political Science Brown University 111 Thayer Street Third Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2825 Fax 401-863-7018 brownpolisci@brown.edu Join us on Twitter Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Message from the Chair Diversity and Inclusion Statement Contact Us People Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting Faculty & Postdoctoral Fellows Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Honors Program Recognition Advising Career Planning & Placement Graduate Admission Program at a Glance Dissertation Placements Graduate Fellowships Ph.D. Job Market Candidates News Faculty Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Political Science at Brown University Open details for Political Science at Brown University Bookmark this Page