Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Office of Risk Management Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Report an Incident Insurance Events Travel Emergencies Abroad Field Trips and Optional Student Travel International Travel Overview/Start Here Plan Your Trip Intl. Travel Registration Intl. Health and Safety Insurance Intl. Travel Policies and Expenses Student Organization Travel Procedures for Student Organization Use of University Vehicles Youth at ISU Volunteers Staff More CDL Program News and Publications Report all accidents, incidents and injuries as soon as possible (Emergencies: Dial 911) Report an accident, incident or injury ISU Net-ID is required. If you do not have an ISU Net-ID, contact us. Personal Injury Employees All accidents and injuries occurring at work or in the course of employment must be reported to the employee's supervisor, even if no medical attention is required. The supervisor and/or employee are responsible for completing a First Report of Injury (FROI) in the ISU Incident Portal. Contact University Human Resources (UHR) for workers' compensation information and questions. Students ISU students who sustain an injury or illness at work or in the course of university employment are typically covered under workers' compensation and should follow the reporting instructions in the Employees section above. All accidents and injuries sustained by ISU students while in academic classes or university-sponsored events must be reported to the Office of Risk Management (ORM) by the student and a university representative. Others For non-employee, non-student personal injury, claims are processed against the State of Iowa under the Iowa Tort Claims Act (Iowa Code § 669). Contact us for additional information and to request a copy of the State Appeal Board Claim Form and Affidavit. Auto Accidents/Incidents Involving ISU, Rental, or Private Vehicles Any accident occurring during the course of university business must be reported by the university driver, regardless of injury, property damage, location, or responsible party. Property Loss or Damage ISU Property Report property loss or damage within 24 hours. Initiate emergency repairs to prevent further damage. Record all expenses. Keep any defective components that may have led to the property loss or damage until instructed by ORM to dispose of them. Personal Property Claims involving personal property damage or loss are processed as claims against the State of Iowa under the Iowa Tort Claims Act (Iowa Code § 669). Contact us for additional information and to request a copy of the State Appeal Board Claim Form and Affidavit. Report child abuse, other child-related crimes or safety violations Contacts Cally Jennett cjennett@iastate.edu 515-294-1963 Pierce Zanders pzanders@iastate.edu 515-735-2853 Resources Environmental Health and Safety Thielen Student Health Center University Human Resources Policies Accidents and Injuries - Students Accident Prevention, Reporting, and Investigation Fleet Safety and Vehicle Use/Rental Insurance, Vehicles Workers' Compensation Office of Risk Management (ORM) 1700 Administrative Services Building 2221 Wanda Daley Drive Ames, IA 50011-1004 orm@iastate.edu 515-294-7711 For URGENT risk management assistance outside regular business hours: 515-294-7700 A unit of the ISU Department of Public Safety Twitter YouTube Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information