Skip to main content Menu The Experience About Stanford GSB About Our Degree Programs About Us The Leadership Dean’s Updates COVID-19 Information School News & History Voices Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Annual DEI Report Centers & Institutes Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Center for Social Innovation Stanford Seed Learning at Stanford GSB Faculty Guest Speakers Entrepreneurship Leadership Social Innovation Communication Life at Stanford GSB Collaborative Environment Activities & Organizations Student Services Housing Options International Students The Programs Full-Time Degree Programs MBA Why Stanford MBA Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid MSx Why Stanford MSx Curriculum Admission Financial Aid PhD Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid Research Fellows Program See All Programs Non-Degree & Certificate Programs Executive Education Stanford Executive Program Programs for Organizations The Difference Admission Online Programs Stanford LEAD Stanford Innovation and Entrepreneurship Certificate Stanford Seed Seed Transformation Program Seed Spark Program Faculty & Research Faculty Faculty Profiles Academic Areas Awards & Honors Seminars Conferences Voices Faculty Research Publications Working Papers Case Studies Books Research Hub Research Labs & Initiatives Business Library Data, Analytics & Research Computing Behavioral Lab Research Labs Research Initiatives Cities, Housing & Society Lab Computational Marketing Lab Golub Capital Social Impact Lab Corporate Governance Research Initiative Corporations and Society Initiative Energy Business Innovations Policy and Innovation Initiative Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship Initiative Value Chain Innovation Initiative Venture Capital Initiative Insights Topics Accounting Big Data Career & Success Corporate Governance Economics Education Energy & Environment Entrepreneurship Finance Government Health Care Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Nonprofit Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Social Impact Supply Chain Subscribe Stanford Business Magazine See All Podcasts Alumni Welcome, Alumni Communities Digital Communities & Tools Regional Chapters Women’s Programs Identity Chapters Find Your Reunion Events Career Resources Job Search Resources Career & Life Transitions Programs & Services Career Video Library Alumni Education Research Resources Volunteering Alumni News Class Notes Alumni Voices Books Giving Contact Alumni Relations Directory Upcoming Events Groups Email My Account Events Admission Events & Information Sessions MBA Program MSx Program PhD Program Seed Transformation Program Alumni Events All Other Events Enter the terms you wish to search for. Insights by Stanford Business Topics Accounting Big Data Career & Success Corporate Governance Economics Education Energy & Environment Entrepreneurship Finance Government Health Care Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Nonprofit Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Social Impact Supply Chain Enter the terms you wish to search for. Leadership Jessica Alba on the Role of Humility in Entrepreneurship In this podcast episode, entrepreneur Jessica Alba shares how lessons from her personal life informed her business decisions. May 13, 2022 | by Jenny Luna “How can I create a solution for people that really has the ethics and values around human health, safety, while also thinking about the planet and sustainability?” In a vulnerable interview with Alexandra Eitel, MBA ’22, Jessica Alba, founder of The Honest Company, shared how experiencing health problems in her childhood inspired her products and brand. Alba also discussed her philosophy of approaching business with humility and self awareness, in this View From The Top interview. “You have to be very humble if you want to be an entrepreneur.… Know what you know and know what you don’t know.” Listen & Subscribe Google Podcasts Amazon Music Spotify YouTube Art19 Stanford GSB’s View From The Top is the dean’s premier speaker series. It launched in 1978 and is supported in part by the F. Kirk Brennan Speaker Series Fund. During student-led interviews and before a live audience, leaders from around the world share insights on effective leadership, their personal core values, and lessons learned throughout their career. Full Transcript Jessica Alba: You have to be very humble if you want to be an entrepreneur or be part of a business, know what you know, know what you don’t know. And then, you know, surround yourself with people that really support your strengths and your weaknesses. Alexandra Eitel: Welcome to View From The Top: The Podcast. That was Jessica Alba, founder and Chief Creative Officer of The Honest Company. Jessica joins Stanford Graduate School of Business as part of View From The Top, a speaker series where students like me sit down to interview business leaders from around the world. I’m Alexandra Eitel, an MBA student of the class of 2022. This year, I had the pleasure of interviewing Jessica Alba. Jessica recounted her entrepreneurial journey from starting The Honest Company based on needs she identified in her own life and then bringing the company to IPO just last year. She also discussed the importance of knowing your customer, her thoughts on Gen Z, and trusting your gut. You’re listening to View From The Top: The Podcast. On behalf of the Stanford Graduate School of Business, I’d like to welcome you to View From The Top. We are so excited to have you here. Jessica Alba: Thank you for having me. Alexandra Eitel: We have so much to learn from you here at the GSB about your business savvy and your tenacity in building a truly fantastic company. So, I’d like to start today with the origin of Honest. So much of the company is built upon your personal experience as a child with health challenges, and as a mom who struggled to find products that were affordable and ecofriendly for your own children. So, can you tell us about how these pain points led you to developing a business solution? Jessica Alba: Yeah, gladly. You know, I think it really was for me filling a need and finding a, a real opportunity to show up not just for myself, but for many people, in a way that I think I, I was seeing that companies that make products that really interact with you every single day and could have an effect on your health and wellbeing over time, they just weren’t really considering I think holistically your health and wellness as the top priority. And for me, I just felt like our health and wellness — when you go through your life and you are thinking of quality of life and thriving, when your health is compromised and your health and wellness is compromised in any way, shape, or form, it’s really difficult to then live a life where you can thrive and be happy and live life to the fullest. So when I was a child and I was very sick, and I was constantly reminded that I wasn’t like others, and I was isolated — I had severe asthma and allergies, and every time I had an allergy to something it actually triggered my asthma and I was put in the hospital on steroids. I was in the hospital I would say at least three or four times a year for a week to two weeks, doing steroid treatments and breathing treatments and dealing with pneumonia and bronchitis. And every cold turned into pneumonia, so it was just like a whole situation. But I wanted to play baseball and soccer and be a normal kid. And so I’d go on the soccer field with a breathing machine, and I would have that next to me. I also had kidney issues and cysts and many different other surgeries on top of that. And all of this before I was 11. So, I just dealt with a lot of health issues. And when I was pregnant with my first daughter about 13 years ago, I had an allergic reaction. And I had pretty much stayed away from the things that were causing reactions, and I started to really create subconsciously this safe environment where I didn’t, I wasn’t exposed to a lot of the things that would trigger my allergies or asthma. And then when I was pregnant with Honor, I had an allergic reaction to a detergent that was marketing to parents to use on their babies’ clothing. And my mom said she used it on me, and I didn’t know very many moms, and when I had this allergic reaction I got a flood of the memories of me as a kid and having all of these health issues. And I was like, oh my God, what if my baby is like me? What if she has these sort of issues? And it really kind of shaped who I am. And I think it builds character to go through difficulties, but if it could be avoided, let’s avoid them, you know? My mother got cancer when she was, I believe she was 23, 22 or 23, and had to have a full hysterectomy, meaning she couldn’t have children anymore. And her cancer was environmentally caused, because there was nothing genetically that was linked to that. So, when I looked, I took sort of a reflection on my childhood, my mom’s health and wellness, now I’m bringing this little person into the world and thinking about quality of life in a different way. I was told I wasn’t allowed to eat deli meats, and I couldn’t use my Retinol on my face because it could possibly affect the baby and her health and wellness. So I started looking at ingredients and thinking about my health differently, and hers obviously. And I learned about lots of untested and potentially harmful chemicals that we use and are exposed to on the daily. And a lot of it is in beauty products, hair/skin products, makeup products, fragrances, home detergents. And so then I was like, oh my goodness, every single day we’re being exposed to all of these potentially harmful chemicals, and we don’t even know it, and we don’t even know how it’s affecting our health. So then I was looking at, I looked at data and was trying to understand the research around the rise of illness. And there was a pretty parallel path in the industrialization of these chemicals and them being put into consumer products and beauty products, and that rise really paralleled the rise of many illnesses that people are dealing with. Because, they’re hormone disruptors and they’re endocrine disruptors, and they’re linked to things like various cancers, learning disabilities, and also the way that it affects your hormones. It’s basically like giving your body steroids, and it really screws up your hormones, men and women, the exposure to a lot of these chemicals. So I was like, how do we not know about this, and how is this even allowed in this country, with all of the — you know, shouldn’t there be a governing sort of practice or rules or standards? And in the UK, they actually make companies test chemicals for safety before they’re even allowed to be brought into the marketplace in personal care and beauty. And in this country, the way that the system is set up is, it has to be proven to kill enough people before they’ll even look into it being dangerous. And so I was like, what? So basically, like, we’re just being tested on? And I was like, that is so messed up. And then people who live in sort of like different circumstances, where they don’t, they can’t necessarily control their environment and their shopping habits, because they’re just trying to survive and they’re living paycheck-to-paycheck, like I grew up, and a lot of black and brown families as well are disproportionately affected by the exposure to a lot of these chemicals. And so, I was just like, whoa. And so I legislated for chemical reform to try and at least get our standards in this country to be more like Europe. And I — sorry, not legislated, I lobbied for the legislation for chemical reform, excuse me. And I did it twice, and basically, as you know, during COVID, our health has been politicized. And it’s basically whatever opinion someone wants to decide is truth becomes the truth versus facts. And so, I was like wow, this shouldn’t be about a political party, this is just common sense and human health. Anyway, frustrated with the system, I was like well, how can I create a solution for people that really has like the ethics and values around human health, safety, also thinking about the planet and sustainability, and then obviously I think the last and most important piece of the puzzle is really showing up for people and meeting their needs no matter where they live in the country. It shouldn’t be oh, I can only, I afford the most expensive things, and so I can shop at like a Whole Foods or whatever type of grocery store, but everyone else is sort of left out. And I was like, that just isn’t fair. And also, I felt like there weren’t a lot of companies that stood for health and wellness that also spoke my language. I don’t know, I just feel like I love beauty and design and I love beautiful things in the home, and I just felt like there was a way to show up in a beautiful way but still have the ethos and values and ethics that I have as a person. So that’s really where the business came from, and the idea, and that’s how it started. Alexandra Eitel: Well, I love the intergenerational aspect of it, of watching your mom go through something, experiencing something yourself, and then trying to create a solution for your children. That’s obviously a really wonderful brand story. But obviously not everyone was sold in the beginning. So I’m curious, how did your business pitch evolve as you experienced some initial naysayers, or some nos? Jessica Alba: Yeah, I mean, I think you have to know your audience, know their capacity. And originally I was pitching this idea to start this business with people in entertainment, not knowing that the very business model in entertainment is incoming calls and licensing deals, right? And it isn’t starting from the ground up and investing in a concept. Now I think Hollywood has gotten a little bit more savvy, and I would say the success of my company has moved the business to be a little bit more open to different ways of operating. I also think that because the shift in access to content and the internet and habits changing and consuming has changed so dramatically over the last, I mean, 20 years, but really 10 years. So the business Hollywood has had to also try and figure out where they fit in that. And I think they’re still challenged, because they’re holding onto a lot of the old sort of systems. But yeah, so I guess I was pitching this idea to the wrong audience, that’s first and foremost. Then I started pitching it around to different people outside of my scope, and I would say while as an entrepreneur you’re so excited and you see your end goal and you know you’re moving toward that end goal, you have to make it palatable for what can happen here and now and today. So it’s like, you want to sell the dream of this going to be a global brand that stands for the health and wellbeing of people and the planet, and we’re going to make, not only build community and educate people on how they can live a better life, but we’re also going to create the solution for them, and it’s going to be in various categories around home detergents, around bath and body products, around baby products, and around skin and beauty products. For me, I had to distill my idea down to the thing that was trendy and hot in the moment, where investors were excited to invest into these new business models. And I knew that I didn’t want to take this concept to a retailer because I didn’t want the retailer to then — because when you take your concept and your idea and you build inside of a retailer’s environment, they essentially get to take the reins and mold it into what fits into their business model. And you often will compromise on your values, especially when you are right out the gate. I also knew I wanted there to be a charity component, you know, and I thought that was really important. And I also really wanted there to be diversity and inclusion just embedded in the values and the practices of who we are. So, all of those things I would say are just very new concepts, especially back 10 years ago. People hadn’t really seen successful businesses that had values like that. I mean, there’s like, they’re very few and far between that hit on all of those things. And so, I had to figure out, like, know your audience, distill the concept down to what is hot in the market, that people are excited to invest behind, and make it, get your elevator pitch down, because I had a 100-page deck with like, everything from like home paints and furnishings and detergents all the way through to, you know, beauty products and then brands that sit in different price points and distribution … Alexandra Eitel: You had the whole kitchen sink. Jessica Alba: I mean, I had the whole kit-and-caboodle. And so, I had to really distill it down to at the time, what was hot was a predictable subscription business model. And I partnered with essentially the guy that had paved the way for that business model to come to life. He founded LegalZoom and another business called ShoeDazzle. And so, I partnered with him and pitched him the business, and he turned me down. And then, he came back about 18 months later and I pitched him again, and at that point he had had a kid and saw his wife change her beauty habits, change what she allowed in the house, threw out all their detergents in their home, the cleaning products, and basically was shopping from a very small and curated set to provide a healthy environment for their little child. And so he was like, oh my goodness, okay, so people do change when they have kids and they start thinking differently about ingredients, chemical exposures, the planet, and those types of values. I would say now, so when I partnered with him, then we basically went and pitched, you know, Sand Hill, on Sand Hill like five or six companies and VCs, and we got five term sheets by the end of the day. And I was eight-and-a-half months pregnant, and I was told by my doctor I wasn’t allowed to fly anymore. And that was my second child. I was pregnant, because it took me actually three years to get to that point. And yeah, I think it’s like, you have to be very humble if you want to be an entrepreneur or be part of a business, know what you know, know what you don’t know. And then, you know, surround yourself with people that really support your strengths and your weaknesses. Alexandra Eitel: Yeah, I love that point about knowing your audience, and how his life circumstances changed how he acted as an audience member to receiving your pitch. And just that little moment of his wife experiencing exactly what you were talking about was all they really needed to see the benefit for the company. So at business school, in all of our classes, we’re constantly reading case studies to learn about pivotal moments in a company’s history. So, we talked a little bit about the pitch. We can fast-forward to Honest Co. is now an amazing company. What do you think would be the inflection point that you would choose if the GSB were to do a case study? Jessica Alba: It’s interesting. I would say going from and operating from like a start-up and, you know, that’s like a high-growth start-up with that sort of high-growth business model, and really transitioning into a more steady-state growth business model, and building the foundational principles to operate like a business that could be around for 100 years. Because the people that you bring in, and that can get capital to start a company, are very different people that usually I would say 99 percent of the time, is usually a very different team than that can operate and build out foundational principles for a company that could stick around for 100-plus years. Alexandra Eitel: I love that. And speaking of teams, actually, an instrumental part of your team is your current CEO. I’m curious, how did you find him, how did you, how did he convince you that he was the right person, that he was really going to be able to carry your vision forward as CEO? Jessica Alba: Nick worked at Clorox, and actually, you know, when we were starting the business and when we had such high-growth, and being a digital-first business and building community, it was such a different approach, and the values and ethics around health and wellness again was also such a different, in the way that we went about it, was such a different approach to the way a lot of the big CPG companies operate. And so, we’ve had all of the big companies knock on our door, and you have to take those meetings. And so he had spent time with us and looked at us, you know, years before, and really sort of like understood our business model. And then, when we were at a time to bring in a new team to really like build those foundational principles, I think because we had, he had historic data and understood the mental model of what needed to be true — and also, he had done it with Burt’s Bees, when they brought Burt’s Bees into Clorox. And you know, he really has a very like creative approach to business. And I think you can’t have someone who’s so stuck into what they know, but you need to have someone who’s really genuinely open and curious to building out what the business needs at that moment. And he really felt like he was grounded in, and having conviction about that. But then also I would say the other big piece of it is he really lived this life. These values are very meaningful to him and his family. He’s a father of four, two sets of twins. And his wife and him and the kids, they live very much these values, and these are the types of products they have in their home, and this is how they live their life. So, just those, the purpose and the mission of the company really resonated with him. Alexandra Eitel: I love that. Well, an amazing moment that you had last year was when you took the company public, so congratulations on that. Jessica Alba: Thank you. Alexandra Eitel: I’m curious, did the IPO feel like a moment to pause and appreciate all your accomplishments, or was it a wakeup call that new challenges and opportunities were ahead of you? Jessica Alba: You know, for me it was like both. I would say that every time we hit a different sort of transition or milestone, at this point I feel like I’ve been through it all. And you’ll see, guys, when you start your own businesses, what I’m talking about. And yeah, it almost felt like we’re starting from zero again, and building the foundation of what it means to be and operate like a public company. And now, like, we’re building those building blocks and those foundational principles again, but in this new space. Alexandra Eitel: I love that. So, I would be remiss if I didn’t mention your previous role and current still role in Hollywood, and where I learned, at least, at your talent agency, CAA, branding, your personal brand, is everything. And I’m curious what learnings carried over from that world to the business world. Jessica Alba: I’m now at UTA, but yeah, I would say that your personal brand as someone in Hollywood, but then even someone like you or any of you guys sitting there, you can’t — you guys are living in a very kind of, it’s almost like welcome to the party of being exposed. You guys are living a very digital reality, and people can unearth who you are and your past and your life, if anything, is much more on display, I would say, than any other generation and will continue to be on display. And so, where you go in your life, and who you surround yourself with, and how you align yourself along the way will have an impact on your future opportunities. And so, I think for me, I was always very cognizant of that from a very early age, and I think it’s just something to be mindful of, you know, depending on what your aspirations are, making sure that you own all of your decisions and you are honest with yourself along the way. And I’m not saying don’t make, don’t be fearful, but just be aware. And I think a lot of people don’t always think of step three, four, and five. They just see the shiny penny in front of them and they get excited. But I always think of three, four, and five, because I didn’t have a backup plan. I didn’t grow up with a safety net. I had to create my own. So I just, I think I just operated with that in mind when I was building out, or making any decision from age 12 on. Alexandra Eitel: Right, yeah, and important to note that it started so young, and social media and everything has changed so much. And you’ve been adapting since you were 12, which is amazing. I’d love to talk about the future of where Honest is going. You recently launched the Daily Defense collection, which is a line of skincare products designed to defend against environmental pollutants, which is so incredibly important. I’m curious, how do you … Jessica Alba: Those screens, who knew that screens could affect your skin? My God. Alexandra Eitel: The screens that are currently blasting stuff at us right now? Jessica Alba: All day, yeah, all day, every day. Alexandra Eitel: I’m curious how you predict future trends and continue to build products for the future. Jessica Alba: You know, a lot of it comes from I think trusting my gut and my intuition. It’s weird, like, I don’t necessarily need McKinsey data to substantiate where I, what I feel or what I know. And oftentimes, I feel like I can be — and not everything is a home run, but if you need a Bain or McKinsey study to validate your marketplace opportunity, it’s often a little too late, because the trendsetters did it three years before it became a trend that would even become a case study or a study at all. And so, I would say that keeping your feet on the ground and really understanding the pain point or the needs that you are filling in whatever business you’re creating — for me, it’s being very consumer-centric and very personal. I always start from that place, and then I do my research from there around sort of like what other companies are doing things like this, or what other, like our sensitive skincare line. All of us want benefits in our skincare. We want brightening, and we want, you know, our fine lines to go way, and we want our discoloration to go away. We want to have those skincare benefits in our skincare. We just don’t, we’re not looking for something that’s just sort of like, put this on your face and it’ll be a shield, and there you go, and it’s better than having this rash. Now, I’m allergic to a lot of those products, even the gentle ones that the dermatologists recommend, so I couldn’t even use those. So I was like, how about we have a skincare routine that works for people with really sensitive skin, but actually like does something for you. And our head chemist, she has very sensitive skin as well. And so, that’s, you know, just something where we were like hey, if you get rashes, if you have sensitive skin—a lot of people who break out a lot also have very sensitive skin — there’s nothing for you. And you’re sort of just left in the dust. So I was like, this would be a cool one to be able to create a full solution where you can have exfoliation, brightening, really hydrating. We have a lightweight moisturizer and a heavier moisturizer, so it’s for different types of skin, it doesn’t clog your pores — you know, all of those things. So, that’s another, a lot of it comes from the personal. And then, you look at the marketplace and you see how many people are doing it. And then, there’s other things where you’re just like hey, this is table stakes. You need to have X or you need to have Y in order to really, like, be in this category. So, it’s a blend. Alexandra Eitel: Yeah, I love how your ideation process for new products kind of always goes back to how you started Honest itself, which was based on problems you experienced yourself. And obviously you’re not the only one to experience those. Jessica Alba: Right. Alexandra Eitel: So, we started this talk with a TikTok. You are a parent to Gen Z kids and a marketer, and I’m curious because we are always talking about Gen Z, and I feel like articles are always Gen Z this, Gen Z that. As a parent and as a marketer, what is something you think we’re getting wrong about that generation? Jessica Alba: I think we try to overcomplicate it. And the gap of understanding feels so wide, and I think there’s sort of like a frustration in the way that like, they’re moving at a pace and are going to continue to move at a pace that is beyond any other generation, just because in the digital age, you know, before you had to reimagine your business sort of like every five years. And then, I would say about 10 years ago when I launched Honest, it was like oh no, you’ve got to reimagine your business and how you operate and the way you do it like every three years. Now I would say it’s like every year you’ve got to reassess and reevaluate and reimagine. I think that because they’re so young, maybe it’s hard to trust that they know what they’re talking about and allow them to take some leadership and hand the baton on. Like, know what you don’t know. And also, like, if something is meant to appeal to them, it doesn’t necessarily need to appeal to me or to you, right? And sometimes, it’ll appeal to me and it’ll appeal to you, but I think, you know, that is one thing that I feel like when you’re running a business or when you’re trying to understand a demographic, you feel like you should also be on the same page as them. But it’s totally okay that they think the way they think and they respond to things differently than you, and you don’t need to take it personally, and know that it’s okay for you to have your differences. What I appreciate about Gen Z, and I actually don’t think of it as being an issue, is just that they love authenticity, they are values-driven, and the brand values are meaningful to them. And the more that you really show up authentically, the better. I think the businesses that are in trouble in appealing to Gen Z are the ones that are trying to be tricky. Alexandra Eitel: Well, a clear theme of today for sure is knowing your audience, and you clearly know this audience as well. So much about Honest Co. is educating the consumer. You’ve been doing that since before you even started the company. As many of us here are looking to start new businesses — some of them might be quite complicated, deep tech, web3, what have you — what lessons can you share about what works best in educating your consumer? Jessica Alba: Make it entertaining. If it’s boring for you to watch, it’s going to be boring for anybody to watch. Like, you know what I mean? If it’s boring to read it, it’s going to be boring for everyone. I think more and more because we have so much, it’s almost like the volume of content, it is so daunting and overwhelming and is only going to get more daunting as we start to integrate AR into our day-to-day, and as we integrate more of the web3 into our day-to-day with wearables and all of that. We’re going to almost have information overload. And so, having really short and sweet, pithy ways of communicating, no matter if you’re a software company or not, even a B-to-B. I would say when we’re, you know, choosing partners for, you know, B-to-B type of partners or something that will help a function for, you know, in our company in some form or fashion, we’re always looking at how difficult is it to integrate. And usually the difficulty has to do with how boring it is to understand it and to apply it, you know? Making your materials as consumer-facing as possible is important, even for software companies or B-to-Bs. Alexandra Eitel: That’s great advice, thank you. You’ve shared incredible advice with all of us, and we’re all super grateful for your time, and you’re also an incredible model for so many founders from underrepresented groups and for women. So, thank you for being here today. I could go on forever, but we do have some questions from the audience. So, I would like to turn it over to our first question from [JY]. JY: Hi, Jessica. I’m originally from Singapore and moved to the Bay to attend the GSB. I’m an aspiring entrepreneur, so super excited to be here. And my question for you is, what were some of your biggest fears in building The Honest Co. and how do you overcome them? Jessica Alba: Maybe my biggest fear was not connecting with my truth, in a way, and allowing people who had trust and a history in business sort of take over the narrative or run the business in a direction that I intuitively knew wasn’t right. And I felt imposter syndrome, because I didn’t have a traditional business degree and background. And so, it took me a hot minute to really like step into my skin as a person. And I think the more I’ve trusted my intuition and my gut and stood in my truth, the better I feel in everything, right — in business and in life. I would say that was my biggest fear. It’s scary when you’ve never done it before, right? JY: Absolutely. Thanks for sharing. [Kristen Lim]: Hi Jessica. My name is Kristen Lim, and I’m also an aspiring entrepreneur looking to do something within the beauty space. I’m also a power user of Honest products, and I can’t live without my [Magic Balm]. And I’m so impressed with Honest’s growth. In just the first year, you’ve achieved $12 million in revenue, and this grew to a staggering $150 million in revenue just two years later. And at the GSB, we use the [Lean Startup Methodology for Product Ideation]. And I know from the talk that you talked about Honest’s product ideation starting from your own pain points. But I’m curious as Honest continued to scale how the product ideation process evolved? Jessica Alba: Yeah, I mean, I would say that it started from a very pure place, and then I allowed, I sort of gave away my power and my truth for a little while, and I allowed for it to be a bit of a mosh pit of everyone wanting to chime in and not having clear roles and responsibilities and boundaries defined. And you know, I think I’m still a work in progress when it comes to that, but the biggest thing is really like, again, trusting your instincts, knowing what needs to be true in order for you to have a real authentic positioning in the marketplace. For me, I knew, my gut was telling me from day one we needed to have an in-house lab and in-house team and a regulatory team and also a sourcing team, because that was the only way we were going to have true differentiation in our formulas that can meet the standards of conventional or exceed them. And if I was just going to operate like other companies, it just, there was no way to get there. It was just going to be too many hurdles. And so I went through all the hurdles, but that is the biggest thing, is just know what needs to be true for you in order for you to have a real authentic position, and also a reason for you to even exist. It’s a crowded marketplace, so why are you here, and what are you doing that’s materially different? Kristen Lim: Thank you so much. Alexandra Eitel: You’ve been listening to View From The Top: the podcast, a production of Stanford Graduate School of Business. This interview was conducted by me, Alexandra Eitel, of the MBA class of 2022. Lily Sloane composed our theme music. Michael Riley and Jenny Luna produced this episode. You can find more episodes of this podcast at our website, www.gsb.stanford.edu. Follow us on social media @StanfordGSB. Entrepreneurship , Leadership Share this https://stanford.io/3sApmIP Sign up for more insights and ideas. For media inquiries, visit the Newsroom. Explore More May 25, 2022 David Vélez: “Position Yourself in the Scarcity, Not in The Oversupply” In this podcast episode, Nubank cofounder advises students to operate in a market where they have a competitive advantage. Leadership April 28, 2022 “Are You Listening?” How to Stay Open and Curious to Other People’s Ideas In this episode, we discuss the importance of really hearing where others are coming from. Leadership April 12, 2022 The Psychology of Power & Influence How to use power more effectively in your business. Leadership Editor’s Picks Editor’s Picks An Unexpected Result: How Nobelist Guido Imbens Helped Kick-Start the “Credibility Revolution” What Makes Unicorns Special? These Numbers May Hold the Answers. Want to Kick-Start Climate Action? Make Companies Report Their Carbon Footprints. Related Related Insights April 04, 2022 Hamdi Ulukaya: Creating the Right Environment In this podcast episode, the CEO of Chobani shares his lessons from the factory floor to the C-suite. Jessica Alba About View From The Top Explore the Podcast Series 655 Knight Way Stanford, CA 94305 USA Footer contact links Contact Us Visit Us Stay In Touch Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Footer 1 Companies, Organizations & Recruiters Stanford Community Newsroom Footer 2 Library Jobs MyGSB © Stanford Graduate School of Business Footer legal links Accessibility Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Stanford University The Experience Overview of The Experience About Us Overview of Stanford GSB COVID-19 Information Overview of COVID-19 Information Virtual Meeting Backgrounds The Leadership Overview of The Leadership Updates Advisory Council Overview of Advisory Council Members Centers & Institutes Overview of Centers & Institutes Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Overview of Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Research Overview of Research Search Funds Overview of Search Funds Search Fund Primer Teaching & Curriculum Faculty & Staff Affiliated Faculty Overview of Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisors Contact View Contact Information Louis W. Foster Resource Center Center for Social Innovation Overview of Center for Social Innovation Defining Social Innovation Impact Compass Global Health Innovation Insights Faculty & Staff Faculty Affiliates Contact School Profile Our Alumni School News & History Overview of School News & History Our History Overview of Our History Stanford GSB Deans Overview of Stanford GSB Deans Dean Garth Saloner Dean Robert Joss Dean Michael Spence Dean Robert Jaedicke Dean Rene McPherson Dean Arjay Miller Dean Ernest Arbuckle Dean Jacob Hugh Jackson Dean Willard Hotchkiss Faculty in Memoriam Stanford GSB Firsts Commencement Overview of Commencement Class of 2020 Class of 2022 Certificate & Award Recipients Overview of Certificate & Award Recipients Past Recipients Visitor & Safety Information Diversity, Equity & Inclusion DEI Report Supporting Data Voices Share Your Thoughts Learning at Stanford GSB Overview of Learning at Stanford GSB Experiential Learning Overview of Experiential Learning Action Learning Program Analysis and Measurement of Impact Crossing the Chasm Data-Driven Impact Designing Experiments for Impact Designing Solutions for Wicked Problems The Founder’s Right Hand Marketing for Measurable Change Product Management Public Policy Lab: Homelessness in California Real-Time Analysis and Investment Lab Overview of Real-Time Analysis and Investment Lab Lab Features Curricular Integration Faculty Contact Faculty Overview of Faculty Teaching Approach Guest Speakers Overview of Guest Speakers View From The Top Overview of View From The Top Roanak Desai Memorial Conradin von Gugelberg Memorial Entrepreneurship Overview of Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship Courses Overview of Entrepreneurship Courses Formation of New Ventures Managing Growing Enterprises Startup Garage Beyond the Classroom Explore Beyond the Classroom Stanford Venture Studio Summer Program Workshops & Events The Five Lenses of Entrepreneurship Leadership Overview of Leadership Leadership Labs Executive Challenge Arbuckle Leadership Fellows Program Interpersonal Dynamics Overview of Interpersonal Dynamics Facilitation Training Program Overview of Facilitation Training Program 2022-23 Program Overview of 2020-21 Program Selection Process Training Schedule Time Commitment Learning Expectations Post-Training Opportunities Faculty Who Should Apply Introductory T-Groups Contact Leadership for Society Program Social Innovation Overview of Social Innovation Curriculum Certificate Fellowships Overview of Fellowships Stanford Impact Leader Prizes Impact Design Immersion Fellowship Overview of the Impact Design Immersion Fellowship 2021 Awardees 2020 Awardees 2019 Awardees 2018 Awardees DRK Fellowship Stanford Impact Founder Fellowships and Prizes Social Management Immersion Fund Experiential Learning Overview of Experiential Learning Social Entrepreneurship Stanford GSB Impact Fund Student Clubs Alumni Social Innovators Communication Life at Stanford GSB Overview of Life at Stanford GSB Collaborative Environment Activities & Organizations Student Services Housing Options Overview of Housing Options Stanford GSB Residences International Students Our Campus Overview of Our Campus Environmental Leadership Stanford GSB Artwork A Closer Look California & the Bay Area Voices of Stanford GSB The Programs See All Programs MBA Program Overview of the Stanford MBA Program Why Stanford MBA Academic Experience Overview of the Academic Experience Curriculum Overview of the Curriculum First Year Second Year Global Experiences Faculty Joint & Dual Degrees Academic Calendar Student Life & Community Overview of Student Life Clubs & Activities Diversity Overview of Diversity International Students LGBTQ+ Students Military Veterans Minorities & People of Color Partners & Families Women Conferences Student Support Residential Life Student Voices Alumni Community Overview of Alumni Community MBA Alumni Voices A Week in the Life Career Impact Overview of Career Impact Career Support Employment Outcomes Tuition & Financial Aid Overview of Tuition & Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Overview of Types of Aid Knight-Hennessy Scholars Program Yellow Ribbon Program BOLD Fellows Fund Application Process Loan Forgiveness Contact the Financial Aid Office Admission Overview of Admission Evaluation Criteria Deadlines Application Overview of Application Education Test Scores GMAT & GRE English Language Proficiency Personal Information, Activities & Awards Professional Experience Letters of Reference Overview of Letters of Reference Essays Optional Short Answer Questions Application Fee Reapplication Interviews Deferred Enrollment Joint & Dual Degrees Entering Class Profile Admission Events See All Types of Events Event Schedule New & Noteworthy Contact View Contact Information Ask a Question MSx Program Overview of the Stanford MSx Program Why Stanford MSx See Why Stanford MSx Is MSx Right for You? Career Impact See Career Impact Career Support Current Students See the Current Students Prior-Year Students Alumni Voices Curriculum Overview of the Curriculum Leadership Development Career Advancement Entrepreneurship Career Change How You Will Learn Academic Calendar Admission Overview of Admission Admission Events Evaluation Criteria Application Requirements Overview of the Application Requirements Personal Information Professional Experience Reference Letters Overview of Reference Letters Information for Recommenders Graduate Tests Overview of Graduate Tests GMAT, GRE & EA English Proficiency Tests Essays Interviews After You’re Admitted Student & Family Life Overview of Student & Family Life Student Life Overview of Student Life Activities & Organizations Voices Partner Life Housing Daycare, Schools & Camps Tuition & Financial Aid Overview of Financial Aid Cost of Attendance U.S. Citizens and Permanent Residents International Students Application Process Loan Forgiveness Overview of Loan Forgiveness Contact PhD Program Overview of the PhD Program Fields of Study Overview of Our Fields of Study Accounting Overview of Accounting Requirements Economic Analysis & Policy Overview of Economic Analysis & Policy Requirements Finance Overview of Finance Requirements Marketing Overview of Marketing Requirements: Behavioral Requirements: Quantitative Operations, Information & Technology Overview of Operations, Information & Technology Requirements Organizational Behavior Overview of Organizational Behavior Requirements: Macro Requirements: Micro Political Economics Overview of Political Economics Requirements Academic Experience Overview of the Academic Experience Degree Requirements Overview of Degree Requirements Coursework Annual Evaluations Field Examination Research Activities Research Papers Candidacy Dissertation Oral Examination Faculty Current Students Research Resources Admission Overview of Admission What We Look For Overview of What We Look For Entering Class Profile Application Materials Overview of Application Materials Education & CV GMAT & GRE International Applicants Statement of Purpose Letters of Recommendation Reapplicants Application Fee Waiver Deadline & Decisions Admission Events All Admission Events IDDEAS Financial Aid Student Life Overview of Student Life Voices Placement Overview of Placement Job Market Candidates Academic Placements Contact the PhD Program View Contact Information Stay in Touch Research Fellows Program Overview of Research Fellows Research Community Overview of Research Community Faculty Mentors Current Fellows Alumni Academic Experience Overview of Academic Experience Standard Track Dedicated Track Overview of Dedicated Track Projects Fellowship & Benefits Admission Overview of Admission International Applicants Contact Executive Education Overview of Executive Education Programs for Organizations Custom Programs Program Formats Developing a Program Catalyst Online Programs Diversity & Inclusion Strategic Transformation Program Experience Contact Client Services The Difference Academic Experience Faculty Campus Experience Executive Dining Executive Residences Live Online Experience Silicon Valley & Bay Area Lifelong Connections Voices Admission Eligibility International Participants Application Process Driving Innovation and New Ventures in Established Organizations for Teams Stanford Executive Program Stanford Ignite Stanford LEAD Payment & Cancellation Discounts COVID-19 Updates Contact Faculty & Research Overview of Faculty & Research Faculty All Faculty Profiles Academic Areas Overview of Our Academic Areas Accounting Economics Finance Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Awards & Honors Seminars Overview of Seminars Accounting CASI-Stigler Workshop Series Classical Liberalism Economics The Eddie Lunch Finance Industrial Organization Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Conferences Overview of Conferences Accounting Summer Camp Big-Data Initiative in Intl. Macro-Finance Agenda Faculty Videos, Code & Data California Econometrics Conference Submit Your Paper California School Conference Junior Faculty Workshop on Financial Regulation and Banking Quantitative Marketing PhD Alumni Conference Rising Scholars Conference Agenda Presentations Theory and Inference in Accounting Research Voices Publications Books Working Papers Case Studies Research Labs & Initiatives Overview of Centers & Research Initiatives Cities, Housing & Society Lab Computational Marketing Lab Faculty & Researchers Research Focus Areas Contact Corporate Governance Research Initiative Overview of Corporate Governance Research Initiative Research Overview of Research Stanford Closer Look Series Quick Guides Core Concepts Surveys Books Journal Articles Working Papers Case Studies Glossary of Terms Executive Education Faculty & Staff Contact Corporations and Society Initiative Overview of Corporations and Society Initiative Energy Business Innovations Overview of Energy Business Innovations Research Teaching & Curriculum Energy Entrepreneurship Directors & Faculty Contact Golub Capital Social Impact Lab Overview of Corporate Governance Research Initiative Who We Are Researchers & Students Funders Our Research Research Approach Publications Domain Areas Charitable Giving Education Financial Health Government Services Health Worker Training Methods AI & Machine Learning Short Course Adaptive & Iterative Experimentation Incentive Design Social Sciences & Behavioral Nudges Events Get Involved Contact Policy and Innovation Initiative Overview of Policy and Innovation Initiative Reading Materials Courses Events Contact Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship Initiative Overview of Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship Initiative Subscribe Value Chain Innovation Initiative Overview of Value Chain Innovation Initiative Research Overview of Research Books Case Studies Publications Responsible Supply Chains Faculty & Staff Events Contact View Contact Information Subscribe Venture Capital Initiative Overview of Venture Capital Initiative Contact the Venture Capital Initiative Behavioral Lab Overview of Behavioral Lab Conduct Research Overview of Conduct Research Current Study Usage Pre-Registration Information Participate in a Study Faculty Publications Lab Staff Contact Data, Analytics, and Research Computing Stanford Seed About Seed Overview of Seed Leadership Founding Donors Contact View Contact Information Location Information Stanford Seed Programs Seed Transformation Program Overview of Transformation Program Curriculum Faculty Participant Profile Network Membership Program Impact Voices Admission Seed Spark Program Overview of Spark Program Curriculum Faculty Participant Profile Collaborators Companies & Leaders Meet Seed Entrepreneurs Entrepreneur Profiles Company Spotlights Seed Transformation Network Get Involved Overview of Getting Involved Coach Overview of Coaching Responsibilities Current Coaches How to Apply Consult Overview of Consulting Meet the Consultants How to Apply Intern Overview of Student Internships Meet the Interns Intern Profiles How to Apply Collaborate Give Discover Impact Overview of Impact Research & Studies Overview of Research Research Library News & Insights Overview of News & Insights Program Contacts Library Overview of the Library Research Resources Overview of Research Resources Databases & Datasets Research Guides Journals Books Overview of Books Working Papers Case Studies Research Support Overview of Research Support Research Guides Consultations Research Workshops Career Research Ask Us Services Overview of Services Research Data Services Course Support Course Reserves Request Form Course Research Guides Borrow, Renew, Return Overview of Borrowing Policies Material Loan Periods Fines & Other Charges Document Delivery Interlibrary Loan Equipment Checkout Print & Scan MBA & MSx Students PhD Students Other Stanford Students Faculty Overview of Faculty Faculty Assistants Research Assistants Stanford GSB Alumni Stanford GSB Archive Overview of the Stanford GSB Archive Telling Our Story About Us Overview about Us Staff Directory Hours Library Spaces Overview of Library Spaces By Floor Visit History Alumni Alumni Site Help Overview of Alumni Help Site Login Site Registration Alumni Directory Alumni Email Privacy Settings & My Profile Event Registration Communities Overview of Communities Digital Communities & Tools Overview of The Alumni Network Women’s Programs Overview of Women’s Programs Women’s Circles Overview of Women’s Circles Success Stories The Story of Circles Stanford Women on Boards Initiative Alumnae Spotlights Insights & Research Regional Chapters Identity Chapters Interest Groups Overview of Interest Groups Industry & Professional Entrepreneurial Commitment Group Recent Alumni News All Alumni News Class Notes Alumni Voices Books Reunions Overview of Reunions Alumni Week Half-Century Club Plan Your Visit Overview of Plan Your Visit Fall Reunions Spring Reunions MBA 25th Reunion Half-Century Club Reunion Reunion Highlights Events Overview of Featured Events Award Events Overview of Award Events Ernest C. Arbuckle Award Alison Elliott Exceptional Achievement Award ENCORE Award Excellence in Leadership Award John W. Gardner Volunteer Leadership Award Robert K. Jaedicke Faculty Award Jack McDonald Military Service Appreciation Award Jerry I. Porras Latino Leadership Award Tapestry Award Student & Alumni Events Career Resources Overview of Career Resources COVID-19 Job Search Strategies Job Search Resources All Job Search Resources Career Coaching Overview of Career Coaching Long-Term Career & Executive Coaches Overview of Long-Term Career & Executive Coaches Whitney Birdwell Bryn Panee Burkhart Margaret Chan Ricki Frankel Peter Gandolfo Cindy W. Greig Natalie Guillen Laurel Holman Sloan Klein Sherri Appel Lassila Agnes Le Stuart Meyer Tanisha Parrish Virginia Roberson Philippe Taieb Terra Winston Johanna Wise Debbie Wolter Jung Yoo Rebecca Zucker Complimentary Coaching Executive Recruiters Interviewing Job Boards LinkedIn Negotiating Networking Overview of Networking Elevator Pitch Email Best Practices Resumes & Cover Letters Overview of Resumes & Cover Letters Self-Assessment Career & Life Transitions Overview of Career & Life Transitions Starting Out Changing Careers Losing a Job Career Breaks Flexible Work Encore Careers Programs Career Video Library Overview of Career Video Library Career Change Career Management & Success Compensation & Negotiation Interviewing Networking Personal Positioning Contact Alumni Education Overview of Alumni Education Research Resources Overview of Research Resources Library Databases Overview of Library Databases D&B Hoovers Data Axle (ReferenceUSA) EBSCO Business Source Firsthand (Vault) Global Newsstream Market Share Reporter ProQuest One Business Volunteering Overview of Volunteering Academics & Student Life Overview of Academics & Student Life Student Clubs Overview of Student Clubs Alumni-Student Dinners Entrepreneurial Students Admissions Advisory Boards Stanford GSB Trust Alumni Community Alumni Consulting Team Volunteers Overview of Alumni Consulting Team Volunteers Volunteering Opportunities Overview of Volunteering Opportunities How to Volunteer About ACT Projects ACT Volunteers by Class Year Overview of ACT Volunteers by Class Year 2020 – 2029 2010 – 2019 2000 – 2009 1990 – 1999 1980 – 1989 1970 – 1979 1960 – 1969 1950 – 1959 1940 – 1949 Projects Overview of ACT Projects Service Areas Stories & History Overview of Stories & History ACT History ACT Awards Celebration Leadership Overview of Leadership ACT Governance Structure ACT Leadership Opportunities Building Leadership for ACT Individual Leadership Positions Leadership Role Overview Purpose of the ACT Management Board Contact ACT Business & Nonprofit Communities Reunion Volunteers Giving Overview of Giving Impact of Giving Overview of the Impact of Giving Why Give Ways to Give Business School Fund Overview of the Business School Fund Fiscal Year Report Business School Fund Council Planned Giving Overview of Planned Giving Planned Giving Options Planned Giving Benefits Planned Gifts and Reunions Legacy Partners Strategic Initiatives Donor Recognition Overview of Donor Recognition Giving News & Stories How to Make a Gift Overview of How to Make a Gift Giving Deadlines Contact the Development Office View Contact Information Development Staff Contact View Contact Information Staff Directory Submit Class Notes Class Secretaries Stanford GSB Alumni Association Overview of Stanford GSB Alumni Association Membership Board of Directors Insights See All Insights Accounting Big Data Career & Success Corporate Governance Economics Education Energy & Environment Entrepreneurship Finance Government Health Care Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Nonprofit Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Social Impact Supply Chain Class Takeaways Subscribe Contact Stanford Business Magazine All Issues Autumn 2020 Catalyst Fall 2021 Shift Spring 2021 Summer 2020 Value Winter 2020 Stanford Business Podcasts All Else Equal: Making Better Decisions Grit & Growth Leadership for Society Think Fast, Talk Smart View From The Top Intellectual Property and COVID Vaccines Podcase: The Opioid Epidemic Newsroom Overview of the Newsroom For Journalists School News In the Media COVID-19 Analysis Contact Events Companies, Organizations, & Recruiters Overview of Companies, Organizations, & Recruiters Recruit Stanford GSB Talent Overview of Recruiting Stanford GSB Talent Post Jobs Interview Candidates Overview of Interviews CMC-Managed Interviews Recruiter-Managed Interviews Virtual Interviews Host Events Overview of Events Campus & Virtual Off-Campus Search for Candidates Strategies & Resources Overview of Strategies & Resources Think Globally Recruiting Calendar Recruiting Policies Employment Reports Contact Leverage Stanford GSB Expertise Overview of Leveraging Stanford GSB Talent Internships & Experiential Programs Overview of Internships & Experiential Programs Entrepreneurial Summer Program Global Management Immersion Experience Social-Purpose Summer Internships Alumni Consulting Team for Nonprofits Overview of Alumni Consulting Team for Nonprofits Services Clients Working with ACT Overview of Working with ACT Process Overview Project Types Client Eligibility Criteria Project Screening Application Process Contact ACT View Contact Information ACT Leadership Social Innovation & Nonprofit Management Resources Develop Your Organization’s Talent Invest in Stanford GSB Overview of Investing in Stanford GSB Centers & Initiatives Student Fellowships Strategic Initiatives Stanford Community Resources Non-GSB Registration Home Stanford Students Exams Forms Grades DCI Fellows Other Auditors Academic Calendar & Deadlines Attendance Course Materials Frequently Asked Questions Overview of Stanford Community Entrepreneurial Resources Overview of Entrepreneurial Resources Plan an Event Overview of Plan an Event Venues See All Venues Campus Drive Grove Campus Drive Lawn CEMEX Auditorium Community Court Seawell Family Boardroom Stanford GSB Bowl Stanford Investors Common Town Square Vidalakis Courtyard Vidalakis Dining Hall Catering Services Policies & Guidelines Reservations Jobs Overview of Jobs Faculty Recruiting Overview of Faculty Recruiting Accounting Economics Finance Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Contact Faculty Recruiting Postdoctoral Positions IDEAL Provostial Fellows Lazear-Liang Postdoctoral Program Postdoctoral Fellowship in Organizational Behavior Visit Us Overview of Visit Us Dining Accommodations Contact Us Overview of Contact Us Follow Us Stay in Touch