Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Center for the Enhancement of Teaching & Learning CETL right arrow down arrow About Teaching and Learning Resources Faculty & Staff Login Home » About UC » CETL » Teaching and Learning Resources Teaching and Learning Resources Teaching We take a holistic approach to teaching and consider both the person doing the teaching as well as the discipline, class size, modality, and how the course fits into larger curricular goals. Whether it’s teaching face to face, hybrid, or online or teaching a small or large enrollment course, we foster continuous growth as educators and tailor our support based on their context and needs. We bring faculty from across UC together through Faculty Learning Communities, Reading Groups, and special cohort-based initiatives to build community and explore their own teaching in relation to others. Teaching Strategies right arrow down arrow CET&L supports members of the UC teaching community in integrating innovative and effective teaching strategies into their classrooms. learn more about teaching strategies Educational Technology right arrow down arrow CET&L empowers faculty with resources and training on maximizing teaching using educational technology. Learn more about educational technology Online Teaching right arrow down arrow For resources to assist faculty in making the transition from in-person to online teaching. Learn More About Online Teaching Academic Program Assessment right arrow down arrow Academic program assessment plans help faculty build and support common standards and mechanisms for student learning and program improvement university-wide. Learn More About Academic Program Assessment Innovating The core of effective pedagogy is a thoughtful and systematic approach to designing innovative instruction. For this reason, CET&L incorporates modern academic trends and cutting-edge academic technologies to promote student engagement, acquisition, and application of higher order thinking. We invite scholars across academic disciplines to bring their scholarly habits of mind and research expertise into the investigation of problems and questions affecting teaching and learning in higher education to promote reflection and questioning about teaching and learning, gather additional information or modify pedagogy, and assess student learning. In addition, CET&L offers engaged partnerships with teaching faculty to help formulate and implement innovative, data-informed course design models with academic technology and tools. Great Gateways right arrow down arrow Together with our partners, CET&L coordinates and establishes lasting partnerships and develops resources to enhance the academic experiences of students in gateway courses. Learn More About Great Gateways Course Design right arrow down arrow Effective course design can not only assist in making your teaching experience easier, but can also facilitate student learning. learn more about course design Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL) right arrow down arrow SoTL has two equally important goals: the generation of new knowledge that informs a wider field and the application of results to one’s own classroom teaching practice. learn more about SoTL Advocating CET&L is in a unique position to advocate for both faculty and students. Through programs like the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion initiative and the Universal Design for Learning & Accessibility initiative, CET&L collaborates with faculty to make sure our campus is a welcoming and supportive place for all students. CET&L also works to help faculty members choose course materials that are affordable for students. Furthermore, CET&L helps faculty design student-centered pedagogies and course policies to ensure student wellness and academic rigor. Finally, CET&L partners with stakeholders from across campus to ensure faculty and students have the tools they need to be successful in the classroom. Universal Design for Learning right arrow down arrow Universal Design for Learning (UDL) is a research-based framework that promotes equitable opportunities to learn for all people. learn more about UDL Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion right arrow down arrow We seek to promote a campus-wide dialogue around simple evidence-based strategies for designing equitable and inclusive learning environments. learn more about DE&I Center for the Enhancement of Teaching & Learning 2911 Woodside Dr Langsam Library 480, Mail Location 0033 Cincinnati OH 45221 Tele: 513-556-9319 Fax: 513-556-2261 cetl@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Center for the Enhancement of Teaching & Learning 2911 Woodside Dr Langsam Library 480, Mail Location 0033 Cincinnati OH 45221 Tele: 513-556-9319 Fax: 513-556-2261 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top