Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The University of Virginia SIS Collab Email Jobs Info For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Search form Search Close Main Menu Main menu About Us Go to About Us Charlottesville & Beyond Facts & Figures Visit Academics Go to Academics Schools Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies International Studies Continuing & Executive Education Academic Calendar J-Term & Summer Session Undergraduate Majors Online Learning Admission Undergraduate Admission Apply Tuition & Affordability Undergraduate Majors & Programs Clubs & Activities Sports & Recreation Student-Self Governance Housing & Residence Life What’s Next for UVA’s Class of 2022? Arts Athletics Health System Libraries Research You are here Home About Us Visit X Plan Your Visit There are many ways to experience the University of Virginia. Prospective students can attend an information session, sit in on a class or spend the night on Grounds. Alumni can take advantage of career services and participate in a range of events, including reunions. History enthusiasts can take historical tours offered through the University Guide Service (and at Monticello). Parents, prospective faculty and families can do all the above, plus enjoy walking tours and attend a variety of cultural events happening across Grounds and within the greater Charlottesville community. Tours Admission Sessions and Tours Tours for McIntire School of Commerce Tours for School of Architecture Tours for School of Education and Human Development Tours for School of Engineering and Applied Science Tours for School of Nursing University Guide Service Location, Maps and Accommodations This is Charlottesville The University of Virginia is located in Charlottesville, Virginia, approximately 120 miles southwest of Washington, DC. Please review our maps and our parking instructions before making your trip. Charlottesville has many lodging options, including The Inn at Darden, the Colonnade Club and the Boar's Head Resort. Visit the Charlottesville Visitor's Bureau for a full list of available accommodations. Additional Information Attend a Class Charlottesville Visitor's Bureau Jeffersonian Grounds Initiative Maps & Directions Overnight Visits in a Dorm Visitor Parking Information University of Virginia Instagram Twitter Facebook YouTube Footer Utilities Non-Discrimination Notice UVA Tuition Notice Wise Tuition Notice Consumer Information Accessibility Emergency SIS FOIA Privacy © 2022 By The Rector And Visitors Of The University Of Virginia