Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Philosophy Undergraduate Graduate People Research News & Events Resources Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Program Resources About M.A. Program Requirements Ph.D. Program Requirements Current Graduate Students Graduate Courses Erasmus Mundus Program Philosophical Horizons Financial aid/awards Bornblum Travel Award Study Abroad Placement How to Apply Other Resources Take Action Apply to the Graduate Program Online B.A. 3+3 Accelerated BA/JD Program Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Support the Department Follow Us Online Facebook Home Philosophy Graduate Bornblum Travel Award Bornblum Travel Award Overview This award was made possible by the generous donation of David Bornblum in honor of his father Bert Bornblum, a long-time friend of the Philosophy Department. It provides, on a competitive basis, funds to curb the expense of professional travel for PhD students. Selection Criteria Generally, grants should be awarded according to the following priorities: Category I (1) Conference presentations of a primary paper. (Note: presentations national conferences, including those within a significant disciplinary concentration, are more significant than regional conferences) (2) Research travel for advanced PhD students with promise of significant contribution to their dissertation project. Category II (3) Other conference presentations. Commenting. (4) Other educational or research opportunities such as language programs or work that, while not immediately relevant to the identified dissertation area of the student, contributes to the student's AOS/AOC. These categories and subcategories may be thought of as providing four default ordered priorities. However, they cannot be thought of as providing a strict lexical ordering. Various considerations may be relevant. Obviously, the expected benefits of presenting a paper (or commenting) at a conference varies with the geographical and disciplinary scope of the conference, but also with the expected quality of participants generally, the focus of the conference on an issue, the connections and visibility that is likely to result, and like matters. So, commenting on a paper by a prominent philosopher at a conference analogous to our own Spindel Conference, and one focused centrally in the student's AOS would presumably have a strong case for being funded. Similarly, participation in certain programs at which our faculty and students have been conspicuous and at which our students have made contacts of significance can be given some weight, even when a student is not presenting. Here, clearly, more advanced students may do more for themselves and for our program than less advanced students, and clearly those presenting are likewise better placed to benefit themselves and the program. Application Process Students must complete the Bornblum Application Form, linked here. Email the completed form to your Dissertation Director or Mentor, together with supporting documentation (e.g. conference acceptance notice). If your Director or Mentor approves, they will email the form and documentation to the Director of Graduate Studies (DGS). The DGS will verify you are in good standing, and forward to the Chair. If approved, the Chair will sign and forward to the Business Officer, cc'ing all parties of your accepted proposal. Rolling Admissions and Decisions Proposals should be submitted at least ten weeks prior to conference travel. Students are typically allotted a maximum of $500 per year, though this can change for a variety of reasons. Proposals may be rejected on the basis of the availability of funds. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/23/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.