skip to Main Navigation skip to Main Content skip to Footer Accessibility feedback NC State Home COVID-19 Updates Resources Campus Directory MyPack Portal Campus Map Libraries Campus Resources University Housing NC State Dining Bookstores Wolfline Buses Calendar Diversity Academic Resources Undergraduate Admissions Academic Departments WolfWare/Moodle Global Engagement Distance Education Academic Calendar Other Resources Student Services Center Cashier's Office Registration and Records Scholarships and Financial Aid Career Development Center NC State Help Desk Outreach and Engagement Giving NC State News Graduate School Gmail Access NC State Social Media NC State University Libraries Logo Navigation Search Find & Borrow Search Books & Media Articles Databases Journals Theses and Dissertations NC State Publications Special Collections Our Website Find Course Reserves Newspapers Patents & Trademarks Standards Tests & Measurements Textbooks Ebooks Government Information Borrow & Request Borrowing & Access Privileges Tripsaver Technology Lending Suggest a Purchase Distance Services Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Study & Learn Assignment Help Choose a Topic Cite Sources Evaluate Sources Find Articles Find a Book Ask Us All Assignment Help Workshops Data and Visualization Digital Media Digital Scholarship Makerspace Research Strategy Virtual & Augmented Reality All Workshops Spaces Reserve a Room Academic Success Center Quiet Study Graduate Student Spaces Explore Spaces Sensory Friendly Maps How Busy is the Hill Library? Technology Technology Lending Software Print & Copy Scanning Wireless Access Working off campus Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Research & Teaching Research Support Citation Management Grants & Funding Research Impact & Metrics Publishing and Copyright Data Management Open Research Faculty Spaces All Research Support Teaching Support Request an Instruction Session Copyright in the Classroom Course Reserves Library Instruction Programs Open Education Videos and Tutorials All Teaching Support Workshops Digital Scholarship Research Strategy Data and Visualization Peer Scholars All Workshops Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Media & Making Digital Media Music & Audio Video Gaming Photography Scanning Virtual & Augmented Reality All Digital Media Makerspace 3D Printing 3D Scanning Cutting & Milling Electronics Textiles All Makerspace Workshops 3D Scanning Studio Orientation Digital Media Orientation Makerspace Orientation VR Studio Orientation All Digital Media Workshops All Makerspace Workshops All Virtual & Augmented Reality Workshops Spaces Hill Library Makerspace Innovation Studio VR Studio Digital Media Lab All Media & Making Spaces Help Ask Us Request a Technology Consultation Drop-In Help for Digital Media Data & Visualization Data & Visualization Finding Data Wrangling Data Analyzing Data Visualization Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Data Management Text & Data Mining All Data & Visualization Workshops Data & Visualization Workshops Digital Scholarship Workshops Research Strategy Workshops All Workshops Spaces Data Experience Lab (DXL) Dataspace Teaching & Visualization Lab Visualization Studio iPearl Immersion Theater Game Lab All Data & Visualization Spaces Help Get Data Science Help Data & Visualization Instruction Support About Contact Ask Us Staff Directory Subject Specialists Jobs Fellows Program Collections About the Collections Special Collections Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program Memberships & Consortia Our Organization Mission & Vision Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Service Philosophy Fact Sheet Rules & Guidelines Annual Reports & Strategic Plans Performance Measures Honors & Awards News & Events News Events Exhibits Workshops Videos from the Libraries Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Hunt Library Map Hill Library Map How Busy is the Hill Library? Directions & Parking Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Campus Information Centers Get Involved Giving to the Libraries Friends of the Libraries Student Advisory Forum University Library Committee Academic Departmental Library Representatives Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help FAQ Search Today's Hours Hours My Account Log Out Ask Us Chat Link You are here Home Explore Spaces VR Studio VR Studio Building: D. H. Hill Jr. Library Floor: Second Floor, West Wing Rooms: 2317, 2318 Know before you go: Only currently affiliated students, faculty, and staff of NC State can use the VR Studio. View all access policies. First-time users: take the VR Studio Orientation (online) before you visit. Guarantee a workstation will be available when you arrive by reserving the space in advance We offer technology consultations on VR and related topics to help with your projects. Virtual reality (VR) provides new ways for us to control computers and interact with digital environments. The VR Studio at the D.H. Hill Jr. Library is a space for experimenting with virtual and mixed reality hardware, developing exciting new interactive media experiences, and enjoying a deep catalog of VR experiences. Our studio is equipped with seven PC workstations built for working with demanding graphics and real-time computing. The studio is staffed at all times that it is open; we're happy to help you customize any workstation to suite your project's needs. This can include the virtual reality equipment already running at the workstations (including the Oculus Rift, HTC VIVE Pro, Valve Index, and Oculus Quest) as well as a wide array of extended reality hardware available for use within the VR Studio. What can I do in the VR Studio? Have a request for a piece of software or hardware you'd like to see in the Virtual Reality Studio? Let us know with as much information on the item as possible. Reserve a VR Workstation How do I reserve and access this space? Only currently affiliated students, faculty, and staff of NC State may gain access to the Hill Library VR Studio. The orientation session for the VR Studio is available online and on-demand. Reserve a VR Workstation in advance (optional). — To set up a consultation, to access the room outside of open hours, or for other special inquiries, please send us a request. Access policies All NC State University Libraries Virtual Reality (VR) Studio services and tools are available to all students, faculty, and staff at NC State. You must have a valid Wolfpack One Card and Unity ID. Users must complete a VR Orientation and sign a D. H. Hill Jr. Virtual Reality (VR) Studio User Agreement to use the VR Studio. Priority is given to academic and research use of the VR workstations. Guests of authorized NC State University students, faculty, and staff are permitted at the discretion of the VR Studio staff. No one under the age of 13 is permitted to use the VR Studio equipment. No food permitted. Drinks with lids are allowed. No VR sessions may start within 15 minutes of closing. Users of the VR Studio agree to this statement on intellectual property: "I warrant that I am authorized to use the applicable files, data, images, or any other materials (collectively “Content”) in the VR Studio and that the use of the Content will not infringe upon any third-party’s copyright, patent, trademark trade secret or other proprietary or intellectual property rights." VR Studio users are expected to follow safety rules and use the VR Studio exclusively for lawful purposes that respect the policies of North Carolina State University and the NC State University Libraries as well as the safety and well-being of all students, faculty, staff, and patrons. What's inside? Capacity 20 people Sound Level Conversation and chatter Technology HoloLens HTC Vive Pro: VR Workstations Magic Leap One: Creator Edition Oculus Rift: VR Workstations Quest Rift Rift Developer Kit Valve Index: VR Workstations VIVE Pro Windows Virtual Reality (VR) Desktop How do I get there? Elevator Enter the Hill Library from the Hillsborough St. entrance. Turn left and ask the staff at the desk to open the door to the elevator bay. Take the elevator to the second floor, and turn right. Take the hallway on the right and then turn left. The VR Studio is on your right before the glass doors. Stairs Enter the Hill Library from the Hillsborough St. entrance. Go through the gates and the stairs will be on your right. Take these stairs to the second floor, and turn left. Continue down the hallway stopping before you reach the glass doors. The VR Studio is the door on the right. Who do I contact? Colin Keenan cpkeena2@ncsu.edu Need Help? Request a Consultation VR Studio hours May 31 Tue Summer Hours from 12pm - 5pm Jun 1 Wed Summer Hours from 12pm - 5pm Jun 2 Thu Summer Hours from 12pm - 5pm Jun 3 Fri Summer Hours from 12pm - 5pm Jun 4 Sat Closed Jun 5 Sun Closed Jun 6 Mon Summer Hours from 12pm - 5pm all VR Studio hours Projects that were featured in this space Using Livestreaming to Reach Beyond Hands-on Learning Spaces A Libraries channel on a popular live streaming platform that features our Makerspace, VR Studio, and Libraries staff. Top of page Contact D. H. Hill Jr. Library 2 Broughton Drive Campus Box 7111 Raleigh, NC 27695-7111 (919) 515-3364 James B. Hunt Jr. Library 1070 Partners Way Campus Box 7132 Raleigh, NC 27606-7132 (919) 515-7110 Libraries Administration (919) 515-7188 NC State University Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Copyright Privacy Statement Accessibility at the Libraries Accessibility at NC State University Staff Confluence Login Staff Drupal Login Follow the Libraries Facebook Instagram Twitter Snapchat LinkedIn Vimeo YouTube Twitch Flickr Libraries' news ×