Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » About UHP » Contact Us » Neil Choudhury Set Navigation title in component Inclusive Excellence Competencies Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us Neil Choudhury Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Neil Choudhury Assistant Director, University Honors Program Contact information 513.556.6214 neil.choudhury@uc.edu Education M.A. International Studies (Korea & Northeast Asia), University of Washington B.A. History & Political Science, University of Louisville A little about me... My primary responsibility is managing the faculty-led study tours in the University Honors Program. I also work with students on graduate school advising and other post-baccalaureate programs such as Peace Corps, Americorps, the JET Program / teaching English abroad, and other unique opportunities. I love my job because it combines my two passions: learning and traveling! This is the perfect job for me because sometimes students don’t have a plan after they graduate, and that’s okay! Some people need more time to find their path and I know what that’s like because I was that student in college. I grew up in North Carolina and attended the University of Louisville for my undergraduate studies. After I graduated I took a trip to South Korea for two-weeks…and ended up staying for a total of ten years! I started out teaching English and moved into recruiting and corporate training and eventually worked my way up to a country manager for the firm Pearson. I also dabbled with voice acting and had a few radio shows. I loved South Korea so much that I ended up getting my MA in International Studies from the University of Washington with my focus on Korea and Northeast Asia. I speak Korean, albeit poorly. I returned to the U.S. in 2012 and have been working at UC since 2013. When I’m not working I enjoy traveling, reading, cooking, movies, and trying new ethnic restaurants and cuisines. I’m also a die-hard college basketball fan! My goal is to visit every country in the world; I’ve been to every continent except Antarctica, and I’m working on going there! If you want to go abroad in any capacity, come see me. Ask me about... My experience traveling all over the world. From Uzbekistan to Mongolia to Cuba to Botswana to the Russian Far East, I’ve been to some cool places! Why I think story telling is one of the most important skills you should learn, regardless of your major or discipline. How I can help you with your resume. All the different ways you can get international experience! Advice for students Get out of your comfort zone! This is different for every student; for some it could be traveling abroad, for others public speaking, for others it might be working in groups. True learning comes from challenging yourself and this seldom happens if you don’t step out of your comfort zone. Also, learn how to tell your story! If you don’t your story then others will tell it for you. All men dream, but not equally. Those who dream by night in the dusty recesses of their minds wake in the day to find that it was vanity. But the dreamers of the day are dangerous men, for they may act on their dreams with open eyes, to make them possible. T. E. Lawrence Top 5 books every college student should read Freakonomics by Stephen J. Dubner and Steven Levitt – learn how economics influences everything from illegal narcotics to standardized test scores to sumo wrestling! A People’s History of the United States by Howard Zinn – all the stuff you probably weren’t taught in your high school history class from a class-conflict point of view. The Ugly American by Eugene Burdick and William Lederer – why does a nation with the wealth of the United States continuously have foreign-policy failures? Grant by Ron Chernow – a story of grit and resilience about a man who failed at nearly everything in life and struggled with addiction. anything by James Michener! University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top