Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home Student government (ASUWB) Student government (ASUWB) ASUWB Student Government Elections Mission statement Student discounts Holly the Husky Governing documents & legislation Meeting agendas & minutes Student Academic Enhancement Fund (SAEF) application Student of the Month Contact us Bi-Weekly Newsletter Volunteer Opportunities Quarterly Reports Division of Student Affairs Student government (ASUWB) Associated Students of the University of Washington Bothell ASUWB is here to support and advocate for student needs and welfare. During the current pandemic, UW Bothell's student government will strive to provide students resources, opportunities and information to ensure student success. Ensure you are following ASUWB's social media pages for updates: Instagram: asuwbothell ASUWB Discord Apply for a paid position for 2022-23! Not only does the student government (ASUWB) have elected positions, we also have hired ones! The application deadline is Monday 5/16/22. Learn about the three available positions in the ASUWB Bylaws & by reviewing the job postings: ASUWB Legislative Liaison (Fall '22 - Spring '23) ASUWB Parliamentarian (Fall '22-Spring '23) ASUWB Treasurer (Fall '22-Spring '23) All hired positions term: September 7, 2022 - June 30, 2023 Hours and pay vary by position; see job postings for addiional information. Email the Hiring Committee Chair Katie Ward at asuwbpar@uw.edu with any questions. Applicant Resources Husky Hires: Student Positions Application Assistance: Career Services ASUWB Bylaws ASUWB is here for students ASUWB is available for students at ASUWB Public Weekly Meetings on Wednesdays from 1:00 - 2:00 p.m. (PST) in ARC-121. Please see Meetings & minutes for more information about current projects and agendas. Stay updated and share your questions, concerns, comments via email asuwbteam@uw.edu, or Instagram and Facebook: @asuwbothell. Public meetings View meeting agendas & minutes for dates and more. Location: ARC-121 Day: Wednesdays Time: 1:00-2:00 p.m. (PST) Contact Email: asuwbteam@uw.edu Phone: 425.352.5225 Connect with us ASUWB announcements Apply today for travel funds The Student Academic Enhance Fund (SAEF) is now accepting applications for academic travel, e.g. conferences. Students are encouraged to apply via Presence! For more information and to review guidelines around COVID-19, visit our SAEF webpage. Get involved & stay updated Presence is the student portal to access all of UW Bothell's student organizations, clubs, and events, updates, and opportunities. Go check out ASUWB on Presence and many more student orgs. COVID-19 We understand that COVID-19 brings additional challenges to students learning and university experience. We want to know how we can help. Please visit the University of Washington coronavirus FAQ page for up to date information and answers to common questions. The Washington State Department of Health has established a call center to address questions. If you have questions about what is happening in Washington state, or what to do if you have symptoms, please call 1-800-525-0127 and press #. ASUW Bothell supports UW divestment from fossil fuels A resolution originated in the ASUW senate leaderships urging the UW to divest all fossil fuels holdings from its endowment was passed by the ASUW executive team. ASUW Bothell's executive board has since signed in support, and now awaits the resolution to be brought before the UW Board of Regents. To learn more about the call to action for UW to divest from fossil fuels, please read the resolution here. ASUWB Legislative Agenda Thank you to students who provided input on which legislative priorities they want to advocate for in the 2021 Legislative Session. ASUWB has finalized the 2020-2021 Legislative Agenda and is available to read here. University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Box 358500 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5000 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbinfo@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us