Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Fraternity and Sorority Life Interfraternity Council Interfraternity Council IFC Recruitment Multicultural Greek Council Multicultural Greek Council MGC Intake National Pan-Hellenic Council National Pan-Hellenic Council NPHC Intake Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Recruitment Parent and Families ☰ Student Affairs Fraternity and Sorority Life Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Council GET IN TOUCH: P: 214.768.4400 E: panhellenic@smu.edu Mailing Address: Panhellenic Council P.O. Box 750436 Dallas, TX 75275-0436 Panhellenic Mission Statement "We the women of SMU Panhellenic will strive in all that we do to create a healthy and supportive Panhellenic community. As a community, it is our goal to promote fine standards, strong scholarship, ethical ideals and values, and the highest standards of womanhood. It is our aspiration to lead with courage and integrity as we work to positively impact and unite our chapters, our Panhellenic council, our campus and our local communities, and beyond, for today and for the future." The SMU Panhellenic Council exists: As the governing body over the seven National Panhellenic Conference (NPC) sororities located on our campus. It is the responsibility of the Council to unite all seven chapters in the spirit of Greek unity, to enforce the NPC guidelines, and to oversee and regulate the recruitment process. The Council works year round to promote positive ideals of sorority life at SMU, and contribute to the SMU community through involvement, leadership, academic, philanthropic projects, school spirit, and overall support. SMU Panhellenic Council strives for excellence in: harmony, loyalty, accountability, pride, integrity, compassion, innovation, scholarship, service, high standards, and respect. What makes Panhellenic unique? Our seven Panhellenic organizations are members of the National Panhellenic Conference, an umbrella organization that creates policies to provide a similar experience for Panhellenic organizations across the country. Our Panhellenic chapters are our largest Greek organizations on campus. Panhellenic Recuitment Current Panhellenic Organizations Upcoming Panhellenic Events Need Information on PANHELLENIC I AND II HOUSES? Panhellenic I and II Houses are independently managed by the housing corporations of two national sorority chapters who are not currently operating at SMU. Alpha Delta Pi and Zeta Tau Alpha house corporations lease out their houses to affiliated sorority women through their own independent processes. The Office of Fraternity & Sorority Life has no immediate knowledge of any fees, deadlines, or processes required for residence in Panhellenic I and II. Below is the direct contact information for the Panhellenic I and II House Directors. Any questions, comments or concerns should be directed to these women. It should also be stated that there is no timetable for the return of these chapters to our campus. When/if those chapters do return, they will return to the housing space currently managed by these housing corporations and the respective Panhellenic I/II house will cease to exist. Panhellenic I (Zeta Tau Alpha): Not currently in use. Panhellenic II (Alpha Delta Pi): Karen Herleman | 214-691-7403 | SMUPanhouse2@gmail.com Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share