Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Research & Innovation Menu Search TTU Research Home Office of Responsible Research Disclosure of Foreign Research Support and Collaborations Texas Tech encourages international collaborations – and it is important for Texas Tech investigators to be transparent about their relationships and activities. It is also important for all investigators to be aware of what must be included in proposals and progress reports for extramural support. Here are some of key policy reminders: NIH On 10 July 2019, the National Institutes of Health issued a Notice (NOT-OD-19-114) reminding investigators that anyone who applies for or receives NIH support must disclose all resources, positions, and scientific appointments. The Notice contains the full guidance. On 11 July 2019, the NIH blog Open Mike provided the synopsis (emphasis added): So, do you need to report those other NIH grants you have? Yes. What about a contract from another federal agency? Yes. Grants or contracts that go through another institution, including institutions in foreign countries? Yes. Commercial funds? Yes. Domestic or international positions held by senior/key personnel? Yes. In kind lab or office space? Yes. Scientific materials? Yes. Even if it has no monetary value? Yes. Affiliations (even if described as honorary or adjunct) with foreign entities or governments, including talents programs? Yes. NSF On 11 July 2019, the National Science Foundation issued a Dear Colleague Letter on "Research Protection", emphasizing that maintenance of a diverse research community and robust international collaborations requires "[a] renewed effort ... to ensure that existing requirements to disclose current and pending support information are known, understood, and followed." DOE On 07 June 7 2019, the Department of Energy issued a Directive mandating that federal and contractor personnel fully disclose and, as necessary, terminate affiliations with foreign government-supported talent recruitment programs. DoD On 20 March 2019, Michael D. Griffin, Under Secretary of Defense (Memo on Actions protecting Intellectual Property, Controlled information, Key Personnel, and Critical Technologies) directed changes in DoD Notices of Funding Opportunities, to take effect in 30 business days from the date the memo was issued. Funding Opportunities supported by grants, cooperative agreements, Technology Investment Agreements, and other non-procurement transactions will require submission of information for all key personnel working on an activity, regardless of whether the individual's efforts are funded by the DoD. The information required is outlined in the memo and mirrors that required by NIH and DOE. Key points for PIs and key personnel: Disclose all of your professional appointments, whether compensated or uncompensated, in the biographical sketch, including (but not limited to) appointments that you hold at other institutions (e.g., visiting scientist, professor, adjunct) – with dates and locations. Disclose any planned collaborations – official or unofficial – with foreign or domestic organizations in your proposals, including dates. Collaborations include, but are not limited to, exchanges of data, materials, personnel, or confidential information. Disclose all of your sponsored programs in your Current and Pending Support pages for federal proposals and progress reports, per agency instructions. This includes programs sponsored by foreign governments at foreign institutions. When an agency asks about "other funding" for a project (Note – for NSF and many other federal agencies, you answer this question in the proposal; for NIH, you answer when asked for Just-In-Time information), disclose all key personnel's other projects and funding so that the agency can evaluate potential scientific, commitment, or budgetary overlap. That means, respectively: You have identified whether any other organization, US or non-US, is supporting the research outlined in your proposal. If you are named as key personnel in a funding award from a foreign sponsor made to a foreign institution, such an award must be disclosed. You have included all resources made available to your research team in support of and/or related to all of their research endeavors, regardless of whether or not the resources have monetary value and regardless of whether they are based at TTU. This includes resource and/or financial support from all foreign and domestic entities, including but not limited to, financial support for laboratory personnel, and provision of high-value materials that are not freely available (e.g., biologics, chemical, model systems, technology, etc.). See NOT-OD-19-114 for more information about necessary details. You have identified all time commitments. Federal agencies do not recognize a difference between your primary appointments held at a U.S. university and other appointments held at foreign institutions. They want information about all of your formal professional commitments. The total commitment of your time, or of the time of project-supported personnel, cannot exceed 100 percent. You have not requested funding for items already paid for by any other source, including items paid for in a foreign country by a foreign sponsor. We urge you to apply these principles to all your funding proposals. Assistance with Organizing Proposals and Collaborations Involving Foreign Institutions We urge the TTU community to continue research that involves participation by foreign nationals and institutions in accordance with the guidelines of the sponsoring agency. The Office of Research and Innovation will provide assistance to faculty and staff researchers with questions about organizing and managing such relationships. Office of Research & Innovation Like Office of Research & Innovation on FacebookLike Office of Research & Innovation on Facebook Follow Office of Research & Innovation on twitterFollow Office of Research & Innovation on twitter Subscribe to Office of Research & Innovation on YouTubeSubscribe to Office of Research & Innovation on YouTube Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Box 41075 Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3905 Email vpr.communications@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJun 24, 2021 9:09 AM Office of Research & Innovation About Office of Research & Innovation About Back About the Office Office of Research & Innovation About About the Office Back Mission & Vision Office Services Staff Office of Research & Innovation About Staff Back Directory Org Chart Research Advisory Council Metrics Office of Research & Innovation About Metrics Back Monthly Annual Report Research Funding Office of Research & Innovation Research Funding Back External Funding Office of Research & Innovation Research Funding External Funding Back Key Research Intelligence and Funding Opportunities Funding Institutional HSI Grant Opportunities Limited Submissions Internal Funding Office of Research & Innovation Research Funding Internal Funding Back Internal Funding Opportunities Assistance for Residential Fellowships Fulbright Scholar Resources Faculty Awards Office of Research & Innovation Research Funding Faculty Awards Back Targeted Faculty Awards Internal Faculty Awards Celebration of Faculty Excellence Startup Requests Costs of Research Research Development Office of Research & Innovation Research Development Back Proposal Assistance Faculty Research Club Core Facilities Data Management Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Innovation Research Development Centers & Institutes Back University Recognized Centers & Institutes Reporting Find Collaborators (TTU Scholars) Research Guide Innovation Office of Research & Innovation Innovation Back Innovation Hub at Research Park Office of Research Commercialization SBIR/STTR Hub City Small Business Triage Research Services Safety & Responsible Research Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Back Responsible Research Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Responsible Research Back Office of Responsible Research Responsible Conduct of Research Resources Safety Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Safety Back EH&S Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Institutional Laboratory Safety Committee (ILSC) Radiation and Laser Safety Committee (RLSC) Human Subjects Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Human Subjects Back Human Research Protection Program Institutional Review Board (IRB) Animal Care Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Animal Care Back Animal Care Services Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Financial Conflict of Interest Disclosure Export Control Research at TTU Office of Research & Innovation Research at TTU Back TTU Scholars Initiatives Office of Research & Innovation Research at TTU Initiatives Back Thrive! Rural America Excellence in Cotton & Natural Fibers Research Network Hurricane Resilience Research Institute Publications Office of Research & Innovation Research at TTU Publications Back Discoveries Magazine Raider Impacts Watch Research Unfold Strategic Research Themes Development Roadmap Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index