Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »Arts Arts at K-State Tickets McCain Ticket Services Office Noon to 4 p.m. Tuesday-Friday 785-532-6428 Maps Beach Museum of Art K-State Student Union McCain Auditorium Nichols Hall Purple Masque Theatre Seaton Hall Willard Hall Get in touch with your artistic side Whether you want to take the stage or watch a play, visit a gallery or exhibit, or hear a reading by a visiting author, K-State’s the place for you. Live performances McCain Performance Series Head to McCain Auditorium’s performance series for nationally and internationally acclaimed artists. Performances range from the Moscow National Ballet to the LA Theatre Works’ War of the Worlds and The Lost World to the casts of Annie and Rain: A Tribute to the Beatles. Theatre Performances by K-State theatre and dance students take place in Nichols Theatre, McCain Auditorium, and the Purple Masque Theatre. Watch K-State productions of classics like Guys and Dolls or Romeo and Juliet and modern shows like Humble Boys. Dance Dance concerts include a variety of styles—including ballet, modern, tap, and jazz—performed by talented students and choreographed by dance faculty, guest artists, and advanced students. Music Each year music faculty and students present more than 150 events featuring solo, ensemble, and large group presentations for wind, string, keyboard, and percussion instruments and vocal presentations that include solo recitals, opera workshop, and choir concerts. Most events are free and take place in All Faiths Chapel or McCain Auditorium. English Enjoy poetry and fiction readings by visiting writers and Department of English faculty and students. Galleries and exhibitions Beach Museum of Art The museum offers an in-depth look at Kansas art and brings art and artists from around the world to the heart of Kansas. Chang Gallery This College of Architecture, Planning, and Design gallery in Seaton Hall is home to work from students, faculty, and practicing architects. Chapman Gallery Guest artist and student and faculty work is on display in this 1,400-square-foot, technology friendly Department of Art gallery in Willard Hall. Kemper Art Gallery Exhibits from Master of Fine Arts candidates, visiting artists, alumni, and students and faculty rotate in this K-State Student Union gallery. Academic programs Theatre Academics and an exciting and vital production program, led by dedicated faculty and professionals, allow students to develop skills in theatre that will prepare them for numerous production, performance and scholarship opportunities. Dance The goal of the dance program is to provide professional studio training in partnership with a rich foundation in the liberal arts. English Our undergraduate curriculum in English offers concentrations in literature, creative writing, and literature with teaching licensure as well as minors in both literature and writing. Music Not only does the study of music lead to satisfying careers in music itself, but it can be combined with many other interests and professional studies for a variety of lifetime pursuits. Art Artists and designers enhance the quality of life by interpreting and reflecting upon the time in which we live through creative means. Architecture, Planning & Design Design professionals solve complex, challenging problems with the intention of making a difference in the physical environment. The educational experience in the College of Architecture, Planning & Design will provide you with the capacity to make that difference. Events See all events Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 4/24/19