Skip to main content School of Economics Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About About the School Welcome to Economics News and Events Social Media Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Welcome Overview and Degrees B.S. in Economics B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S./M.S. in Economics Minors Minor in Economics Minor in Microeconomics of Strategic Analysis (MESA) Minor in Energy Systems Summer Minor in Economics International Plan Research Option Advising Resources and FAQ Forms and Course Plans Clubs and Honor Societies SOE Scholarships Econ Class of 2022 Graduate Welcome Graduate Programs Overview M.S. in Economics B.S./M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics Global Development Certificate People Faculty Office of the Chair Staff Ph.D. Students Research Faculty Research Publications Recent Grants Seminar Series Seminar Series Archive Student Research Health Economics & Analytics Lab (HEAL) Resources Student Resources Internships and Careers SOE Scholarships Faculty and Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources External Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Stay in Touch Board of Advisors Give to the SOE Mentor an Econ Student SOE Placements Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Harnessing the power of economics to improve the human condition Welcome Stem Certified Degrees in Economics U.S. News and World Report - Top 10 Best Public University New M.S. in Global Development Welcome to the School of Economics The Georgia Tech School of Economics provides a crucial foundation for solving the complex challenges facing our world. Our faculty and students pursue cost-effective and sustainable solutions to human-centered problems. By bridging social concerns, technology, and economics, we develop solutions that improve the human condition. News Ivan Allen College Instructors Named to 2022 CIOS Honor Roll Twenty-three instructors across all six Ivan Allen College schools have been named to the Student Recognition of Excellence in Teaching: … School of Economics Hosts Inaugural Atlanta/Athens Health Economists Group Event Researchers and graduate students at Georgia Tech, Emory, Georgia State, University of Georgia, and the Centers for Disease Control formed … South and West Lead the Nation in Multidimensional Poverty, Georgia Tech Researcher Finds New research finds that people living in California, Texas, and Florida were more likely than other U.S. residents to experience multiple … Three Econ Faculty Awarded IAC Small Grants for Research SGR awards are open to proposals in any area of research, and cross-School collaborative proposals are encouraged. More School of Economics News Featured Research One More Step Towards Overcoming the Shortcomings in the Models with Ordered Categorical Data One Step Closer Towards Reliable Causal Inference An Easier Way to Estimate Conditional Quantile Functions Analyzing Racial and Ethnic Differences in the USA through the Lens of Multidimensional Poverty More Featured Projects Faculty Highlight Christine Ries After spending decades in business schools, Professor Ries says she came to Georgia Tech because "I saw the coming developments in economics as happening when economists confronted problems in innovation and technology." Student Highlight Jacob Aguirre Undergraduate student Jacob Aguirre is completing a dual degree in Economics and Mathematics in only two and a half years! In his student profile, he shares the importance of getting involved on campus and what he plans to do in the future. More Featured People Alumni Highlight Shehryar Rashid Shehryar Rashid is a field coordinator at the International Organization for Migration in South Sudan, where he supports the establishment, construction, and promotion of sustainable community infrastructure and services. Upcoming Events Sorry, no upcoming events found. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Economics Old C.E. Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-385-1363 Fax: 404-894-1809 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty & Staff Resources Online Directory Techworks Human Resources Passport Quick Links Current Academic Calendar Career Center Registrar's Office Georgia Tech Visitor Information College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology