Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Higher Education M.Ed. in Higher Education M.Ed. in Higher Education Why Study Higher Education? Faculty Admissions Curriculum Tuition, Scholarships & Financial Aid Graduate Assistantships & Preview Day Alumni Non-Degree Study Living in Dallas Ed.D. in Higher Education Ed.D. in Higher Education Admissions Faculty Tuition and Financial Aid Meet Our Students Schedule and Calendar Course Descriptions In the News Faculty Advisory Board ☰ Ed.D. in Higher Education SMU Simmons: Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education in the nation Academics Higher Education Ed.D. in Higher Education For Higher Education Leaders Our students graduate as higher education practitioners equipped with the knowledge and skills to solve contemporary problems in their organizations and beyond. Not only are our graduates prepared for advancement within their institutions, systems and organizations, they are also poised to assume leadership roles within their professions on all levels. Apply Now Admission Events Contact Us Program Details Ed.D. in Higher Education students are mid-career professionals from a variety of post secondary institutions and settings, which include public and private institutions, community colleges, and state, regional and national governance systems and organizations. Students are engaged with program faculty and their cohort in all course content, as well as the individual development and execution of a problem-based dissertation that benefits them as leaders in post secondary institutions and other organizations. Students graduate as higher education practitioners equipped with the knowledge and skills to solve contemporary problems in their organizations and beyond. Applications for the Fall 2022 cohort open on August 1, 2021. The priority deadline to apply is February 15, 2022, and the final deadline is April 15, 2022. Courses Year One (24 Credits) Foundations and History of Higher Education Academic Leadership in Higher Education Contemporary Issues in Higher Education Financial Strategy and Management in Higher Education Legal Issues in Higher Education Leading Diverse Campuses and Systems of Postsecondary Education Leading Student Affairs Methods of Systematic Inquiry Year Two (24 Credits) Organizational Theory and Higher Education The College Student Leading Change in Higher Education The Community College Quantitative Inquiry Qualitative Inquiry Topics in Advanced Inquiry Pre-K to 16 Comparative International Policy Year Three (12 Credits) Public Policy and Higher Education Special Topics in Higher Education Policy and Leadership Applied Dissertation (6 credits) Ed.D. in Higher Education Admissions Faculty Tuition and Financial Aid Meet Our Students Schedule and Calendar Course Descriptions Request info Contact the Department of Education Policy and Leadership Contact Us 214-768-3354 Request Information Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall 3101 University Blvd, Suite 345 Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter