Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health The Rutgers Experience Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers University–New Brunswick Our Flagship Location As a member of the Association of American Universities and the Big Ten Academic Alliance, Rutgers University–New Brunswick conducts life-changing research and offers premier education in a diverse community. Students choose Rutgers–New Brunswick for its educational excellence and vast opportunities to learn how to lead a life and prepare for a career of meaning and consequence. #1 New Jersey public university U.S. News & World Report Top 25 U.S. public university U.S. News & World Report 50,000+ Students 21 Counties served as the state land-grant university Discover Rutgers University–New Brunswick In the Heart of New Jersey Rutgers–New Brunswick is perfectly situated in central New Jersey, near the major urban centers of New York City and Philadelphia and the iconic Jersey Shore. Rutgers’ flagship location is home to five campuses across New Brunswick and Piscataway that offer everything from a pulsing, bustling environment to a tree-lined, classically collegiate campus feel. The Scarlet Guarantee The Scarlet Guarantee is a signature Rutgers–New Brunswick program designed to make college more accessible and affordable, offering a "last dollar" financial aid award that covers the cost of in-state tuition and mandatory fees. Learn More Rutgers–New Brunswick Schools Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy Graduate School of Applied and Professional Psychology Graduate School of Education Mason Gross School of the Arts Rutgers Business School–Newark and New Brunswick School of Arts and Sciences School of Communication and Information School of Engineering School of Environmental and Biological Sciences School of Graduate Studies School of Management and Labor Relations School of Social Work Student Success Find resources and services to succeed at Rutgers–New Brunswick. Students can find academic support services, information on involvement and community opportunities, experiential learning and career preparation resources, and more at success.rutgers.edu. The site also includes important “How To” instructional videos and guides related to course scheduling, add/drop, technology systems such as Canvas, Teams, the Rutgers Handshake Career Management platform and more. Go to Site Chancellor-Provost Francine Conway Francine Conway, a scholar and award-winning clinical psychologist widely recognized for her work in child psychopathology, was appointed the chancellor-provost of Rutgers University–New Brunswick in July 2021. Conway previously served as Rutgers–New Brunswick provost. She is a Distinguished Professor in the Graduate School of Applied and Professional Psychology and served as dean of the school from 2016 to 2020. Visit the Chancellor-Provost Website One Community, Five Campuses The distinct identity of Rutgers–New Brunswick is created by the eclectic atmosphere across five campus centers. The Raritan River divides the large campus that spans New Brunswick and Piscataway, New Jersey. A free intercampus bus service keeps the Rutgers community connected between locations. Students enjoy the mix of eateries, housing, and study and academic spaces at all of the five campus locations: Busch, College Avenue, Douglass, George H. Cook, and Livingston. Choosing Rutgers–New Brunswick Whether you attend as an undergraduate or graduate student, Rutgers–New Brunswick provides students with many pathways to success. Tuition and Fees Rutgers–New Brunswick keeps costs low and provides financial aid for approximately three quarters of undergraduate students. Graduate and Professional Admissions Explore graduate study options at Rutgers by field of study, school, location, and degree. Find out the requirements and deadlines for applying. Honors College Exceptional students experience a living-learning community where curiosity, knowledge, diversity, and collaboration intentionally intersect. Virtual Tour Take a virtual tour of campus and downtown New Brunswick. Explore the most popular hangouts. Visit classrooms and lecture halls. Get a glimpse of Rutgers traditions – right from home. Undergraduate Academics Explore the paths to an undergraduate degree and all the possibilities that come from it. Whether you know your major already or you're still deciding, you'll find your path at Rutgers. Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate students interested in enrolling at Rutgers should visit the admissions site for details on the application process. Biomedical and Health Sciences Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) schools offer a full range of programs for professional health care careers. Visit or Take a Tour See Rutgers up close by taking one (or several) of our fun and informative campus and/or school tours. Graduate and Professional Studies Rutgers' graduate and professional programs offer the opportunity to study with well-known faculty and industry leaders, access to state-of-the-art research facilities, and more. Student Life There is so much happening across campus every day, that it becomes a question of “What do I have time to do?” versus “What is there to do?” Getting involved in extra- and co-curricular activities is a great way to meet people and feel a greater sense of connection to the Rutgers community. At a place like Rutgers, getting involved is a way to make a big place feel a lot smaller. It's a good thing there are more than 500 social, academic, service, or athletic clubs to get involved with. Get Involved Student Organizations Arts and Culture Recreation and Wellness Whether it’s hitting the gym, taking to the court, getting fit, or being part of a team, students at Rutgers–New Brunswick will find plenty of recreational opportunities. Student have access to comprehensive clinical care including medical and mental health counseling services. Rutgers Recreation Club Sports Intramural Sports Health and Wellness Housing and Dining One of the largest student housing operations in the U.S., more than 16,000 residents live, study, and relax in the traditional dorms, suites, and apartments spread throughout dozens of on-campus residential options across New Brunswick and Piscataway. Are you hungry? Rutgers–New Brunswick students have a smorgasbord of edible options. From quick bites and dining hall classics to takeout and Twitter-trackable food trucks, you’re never far from your next meal on campus. Living on Campus Places to Eat Athletics Home of the Scarlet Knights, Rutgers–New Brunswick is part of the Big Ten athletic conference and competes at the NCAA Division I level for men’s and women’s sports. More about the Scarlet Knights Featured Stories Take a look at some of the most popular features about the great things to come out of Rutgers–New Brunswick. Extra Credit: A Summer & Winter Session Podcast Watch: The Journey of Myles Johnson, Engineer and Student Athlete Rutgers Professor Explores Possibility of Life on Mars and Beyond Student Radio: 90.3 The Core Remarkable Stories from the Past Decade Rutgers Alumnus Leads Charge to Find Cure for Diabetes Rutgers Professor Reflects on Springsteen's Legacy for ''The Boss's'' 70th Birthday Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster