Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) Menu University of Texas at Austin Home Financial & Administrative Services The University of Texas at Austin Financial & Administrative Services Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) Search Search Search Search Home Expand Environment / Waste Expand Asbestos & Lead Safety Petroleum Storage Tank Program Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure Program Stormwater Waste Management Wastewater Design / Construction Expand Project Closeout / Commissioning Construction Design Fall Protection Petroleum Storage Tank Program Planning Unmanned Aerial Vehicles Incidents Research / Labs / Clinical Expand Biological Safety Chemical Safety Equipment Safety Incidents Lab Evaluations and UT HERD Laser Safety Personal Protective Equipment Planning Safe Research Radiation Safety Recycling and Waste Minimization Shipping Research Materials Training Expand Environmental Programs Training HazCom Training, Site-Specific Lab Training Requirements Laser Safety Training Occupational Safety Training Radiation Safety Training Training Courses and Descriptions Working Safely Expand Emergency Information Animal Safety Asbestos & Lead Safety Biological Safety Chemical Safety Equipment Safety First Aid Kit Heat Stress Incidents Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) Laser Safety Occupational Health Services Personal Protective Equipment Public Health Radiation Safety Safety Programs About Us Expand Contacts EHS Topics Index Emergency Information Forms & Resources Organizational Chart Welcome to Environmental Health & Safety EHS is… Construction Planning See How EHS is… Environmental Protection Learn More EHS is… Research and Clinical Safety View Resources Emergency Info It is important to report any injury or personal exposure. Call 512-471-3511, 8 a.m.-5 p.m., M-F After hours dial 911 to contact UT Police Notify us of an incident In the event of a fire, serious injury, or other life-threatening situation, call 911 FIRST. Food Sanitation EHS is responsible for drinking water quality and food safety inspections of food vendors and kitchen facilities on campus. Learn about our process, review requirements and guidelines, and fill out permitting forms. Food and Drinking Water Safety Food Establishment Permitting Mobile Food Vending Requirements Temporary Food Events Application Training EHS offers a variety of online, instructor-led, and specialty training for the UT Austin staff, faculty, and students that meet regulatory and policy requirements and support a culture of safety. Lab Training Requirements Training and Education View Training Courses UT HERD UT HERD (previously EHS Assistant) is the new database app that manages laboratory evaluations, personnel, and chemical inventory. Get Access and or Login to UT HERD Self Evalution Program UT HERD Wireless/Offsite Heat Stress Students, faculty, and staff who are exposed to excessive heat or who work in hot environments may be at risk of heat stress. Learn more about heat stress. Important Notice: Nitric Acid Container Failure Identified Issue: In the fall of 2019 and spring of 2021 the handle of a concentrated nitric acid container fell off while a researcher was moving the container. This resulted in nitric acid spilling onto the floor and in one case splashing on the leg of the researcher. In both instances, the nitric acid container was approximately two years past its expiration date. Please see the container failure notice full details here (PDF) Updated OH 202 Requirement An updated OH 202 Hazardous Waste Management course is now available in UT Learn. This course reflects changes in waste management at the University and updated regulations. All employees are required to complete the updated course after January 12, 2022. If you have previously taken OH 202, please follow the OH 202 instructions to make sure your transcript reflects the new date of training. OH 202 Instructions Doggie Doo is a Waller Creek Don’t: FAS departments install pet waste stations to keep Waller Creek As part of overall plans to help reduce bacterial levels in Waller Creek, Environmental Health and Safety (EHS), Landscape Services and Project Management and Construction Services (PMCS) have teamed up to install pet waste stations to help reduce bacteria levels in Waller Creek. Read Story EHS 2020 Annual Report Read the EHS 2020 Annual Report here. View the EHS 2020 Annual Report EHS Lab Safety Newsletter Fall 2021 View the latest EHS Lab Safety Newsletter. View the Newsletter EHS Lab Safety Newsletter Fall 2021 View the latest EHS Lab Safety Newsletter. View the Newsletter. Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) Address: 304 E 24th St, Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-3511 Email: EHS-Directors@austin.utexas.edu Website problems? Contact FAS Communications fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022