COVID-19 UH Updates skip to Main Content Campuses dropdown menu column 1 Overviews Universities Mānoa Hilo West Oʻahu column 2 Community Colleges Hawaiʻi Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Maui Windward column 3 Distance Learning UH Education Centers Continuing Education Community Colleges Attend dropdown menu column 1 Overview Degrees and Programs column 2 Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition UH System dropdown menu column 1 About UH Strategic Directions Policies and Procedures Title IX column 2 Leadership Board of Regents System Offices A-Z Stewardship of Maunakea column 3 UH News Emergency Post-Pandemic Hawaiʻi and UH column 4 Support UH UH Foundation UH Alumni Relations Make a Gift About the University of Hawaiʻi UH System » About the University of… Students doing research in a taro field The University of Hawaiʻi System includes 10 campuses and educational, training and research centers across the Hawaiian Islands. As the public system of higher education in Hawaiʻi, UH offers unique and diverse opportunities. Areas of Excellence International Advantage Hawaiʻi position between east and west, in the middle of the Pacific, creates opportunities for international leadership and influence. Asia/Pacific expertise permeates the university’s activities. Location The 10 UH campuses and educational centers on six Hawaiian Islands provide opportunities for both learning and recreation. Opportunity UH academic offerings range from certificate and vocational through doctoral programs. Economic Development UH is the state’s leading engine for economic growth and diversification, stimulating the local economy with jobs, research and skilled workers. Campuses and Educational Centers Big Island (Hawaiʻi) Hawaiʻi Community College University of Hawaiʻi at Hilo Hawaiʻi Community College—Pālamanui North Hawaiʻi Education and Research Center Maui, Molokaʻi, Lanaʻi University of Hawaiʻi Maui College UH Center–Maui Hana Education Center Lānaʻi Education Center Lahaina Education Center Oʻahu Honolulu Community College Kapiʻolani Community College Leeward Community College University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa University of Hawaiʻi–West Oʻahu Windward Community College Waiʻanae Education Center Kauaʻi Kauaʻi Community College UH Center–Kauaʻi University of Hawaiʻi Fast Facts Enrollment Total Enrollment: 49,773 Undergraduate: 44,315 Graduate: 5,458 Enrollment Status Full-time: 49.1% Part-time: 50.9% Residency Hawaiʻi: 80.7% U.S. Mainland: 13.3% U.S. Affiliated: 1.0% Foreign: 3.6% Unknown: 1.4% Age and Gender* Average: 24.8 Men: 39.2% Women: 60.8% * full-time students Pell Grant Recipients* 40% * eligible, full-time students Awarded in Fall 2020 Degrees and Programs Total degree programs: 730 Professional degrees: 4 Doctoral degrees: 57 Master’s degrees: 92 Bachelor’s degrees: 145 Associate degrees: 126 Certificates, CC: 170 Certificates, University: 136 Student Diversity (full-time students) Faculty Diversity* Figures from the Institutional Research, Analysis & Planning Office, Fall 2021 Faculty Diversity, Fall 2015 Mission and Purpose The primary mission of the university is to provide environments in which faculty, staff and students can discover, examine critically, preserve and transmit the knowledge, wisdom, and values that will help ensure the survival of present and future generations with improvement in the quality of life. In carrying out that mission, it is the basic purpose of the university to afford all qualified people of Hawaiʻi an equal opportunity for quality college and university education at both undergraduate and graduate levels. As the only provider of public higher education in Hawaiʻi, the university embraces its unique responsibilities to the indigenous people of Hawaiʻi and to Hawaiʻi’s indigenous language and culture. To fulfill this responsibility, the university ensures active support for the participation of Native Hawaiians at the university and support vigorous programs of study and support for the Hawaiian language, history, and culture. Within its unique geographical location, the university will serve as a leader in how its stewards the resources of the islands and the world for the benefit of all. The university shall be a global leader and model for the integration of sustainability throughout its teaching, research, operations, and public service. The university recognizes than an important knowledge base in sustainable island systems resides in the indigenous people of Hawaiʻi and all those for whom Hawaiʻi is home. The university commits to consult with local cultural practitioners and sustainability experts on best practices in sustainable resource allocation and use for the well-being of our communities, our state, and the world. Critical resources include energy, food, water, land and sea as they are integrated with the relationships of family, culture, community, justice, work, and economy in the present and future. From Regent’s Policy 4.201 History First faculty In 1907, the Hawaiʻi Territorial Legislature established the College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts in Honolulu under terms of the U.S. land grant legislation. Since then, what began as a college of ten students and 13 faculty members has evolved and expanded to a 10-campus system spanning the Hawaiian Islands. The University of Hawaiʻi has grown and responded through the years to the research and cultural needs of its educational community, the State of Hawaiʻi and beyond. View a timeline of the University of Hawaiʻi and its development over more than a century. Latest UH News 1st gen Shidler alumna endows $100K scholarship to honor parents Native Hawaiians more at risk for gout, UH study reveals $2.5M grant to monitor space weather, making space travel safer Students explain value, opportunities at UH Community Colleges Students at UH West Oʻahu, Japan learn together through COIL [embedyt]http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ECRSCHq6ex8&width=475.45&height=267[/embedyt] Featured video: UH System news and events Contact, Location and Consumer Information University of Hawaiʻi 2444 Dole Street Honolulu, HI 96822 (808) 956-8111 Need more info? See an overview of each of our 10 campuses. Consumer information and disclosures View an interactive Google map of the UH campuses across the Hawaiian Islands. Last modified: May 11, 2022 Changing lives through higher education. Apply Now 2444 Dole Street Honolulu, HI 96822 An equal opportunity/ affirmative action institution Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy copyright © 2022 University of Hawaiʻi Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr YouTube Contact UH If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request. Get Adobe Acrobat Reader Calendar Directory Emergency Information MyUH Privacy Statement Work at UH About UH Attend Campuses Degrees and Programs Leadership Offices Back To Top Submit