Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Army ROTC Army ROTC right arrow down arrow Cadets & Campus Life right arrow down arrow Scholarship Clubs Branches Cyber Leadership Development UC Army Nursing Summer Training Cadre Leadership right arrow down arrow PMS-LTC Black SMI - MSG Castillo APMS - MAJ Cary APMS - MAJ Aguirre MSI - SFC Schooff MSI - SFC Isbell Program Coordinator APMS - CPT Dalton APMS - CPT Bryan Alumni Home » Campus Life » Army ROTC » Cadets & Campus Life » Cyber Leadership Development Set Navigation title in component Scholarship Clubs Branches Cyber Leadership Development UC Army Nursing Summer Training Cyber Leadership Development Program Cyber Leader Development Program (CLDP) is an education track that provides additional teaching through internships, conferences, clubs, and seminars. Although it was initiated at West Point, it is openly available to all ROTC cadets. The intent of CLDP is for cadets to have robust extracurricular exposure to cyber in a variety of scenarios. U.S. Army Cyber Command, ARCCYBER, was activated in October of 2010. Soldiers were pulled from Signal, Military Intelligence, and other parts of the Army to develop this branch. As ARCYBER continues to grow its need for officers with required technical competencies increases. The solution: CLDP. Upon completion of the CLDP cadets will have paved the way for a cyber related career. CLDP at UC Former ARCCYBER and 2nd Army officer LTC Bender initiated the CLDP program at UC in 2015. It is now the largest CLDP program outside of West Point, with participation from 15 cadets. Cadets at UC participate in the group CyberCrime Cats, a student run club that provides challening, hands on experiences with different information technology topics with a focus on cybersecurity. UC cadets, allow with the United States Military Academy (USMA) sit in on different cyber related talks throughout the semester, granting a chance to meet those directly involved with Army Cyber and USMA CLDP. Our goal is to continue growing our CLDP program and to continue developing our participating cadets into technically competent leaders. The University of Cincinnati is designated a National Security Agency (NSA) Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Operations for five consecutive academic years commencing with the 2014-2015 academic year. As a Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Operations (CAE-CO), the University of Cincinnati provides: Expertise in the entire cybersecurity spectrum — human behavior and strategic policy analysis, software and network integration, algorithm development, data encryption and information security analytics A comprehensive, public, doctoral degree-granting institution of 43,000 students that is judged by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching to to have “Very High Research Activitiy” University-Industry partnerships supported by the University of Cincinnati Research Institute (UCRI) Training for tomorrow’s workforce through graduate and undergraduate degrees, minors and certificate programs related to cybersecurity integrated in a world-renowned cooperative education experience Recommended Majors & Minors College of Engineering and Applied Science (CEAS) Computer Engineering (BS) Computer Science (BS/Minor) Electrical Engineering (BS) Electrical Engineering & Technology (BS) Electrical Engineering & Smart Grid (Minor) Embedded Systems (Minor) Robotics & Automation (Minor) College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services (CECH) Information Technology (BS/Minor) Foundations in Cybersecurity (Undergrad Cert) Networking (Undergrad Cert) Software Development (Undergrad Cert) College of Business Information Systems (BS/Minor) College of Arts & Applied Sciences Computational Science (Undergrad Cert) Cybersecurity (BS (SY16-17 [T])) CDT Mayer's Cyber Internship CDT Mayer interned for LTC Williams and the Ohio National Guard’s Computer Network Defense Team over the summer of 2015. While with the CND Team he participated in a wide range of cyber security activities and projects from table top exercises to interacting with industry. Table top exercises consisted of government and private industry working through responses to a critical cyber incident in the State of Ohio. Working with private businesses also gave an insight into the cyber infrastructure of the state. “The experiences from working with the OHARNG were second to none that I would not have access to in the private industry.” CDT Mayer hopes to branch Cyber upon commissioning into the United States Army as a Second Lieutenant. Cyber News University of Cincinnati recognized for fight against cyber crime An NSA representative lead a hands-on cyber operations and security engagement session at the College of Engineering and Applied Science (CEAS) 11 Sep 2015 University of Cincinnati Cyber Operations University of Cincinnati joins with National Security Agency to fight cyber crime University of Cincinnati\n2600 Clifton Ave\nCincinnati OH 45221\n513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati\n2600 Clifton Ave\nCincinnati OH 45221\n513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top