Center for Diversity and Inclusion - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Center for Diversity and Inclusion Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Center for Diversity and Inclusion Home About Us Staff Varselles Cummings Michael Crook Lupita Hernandez Geraldine Lara Contact Us News Newsletters Accommodation and Non-Discrimination Customer Service Statement Events Event Calendar Signature Events Culture Connect Week Diversity Institute Fall Speaker Series #IAmUH Campaign MLK Commemorative Celebration Weeks of Welcome Mixers Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Diversity Related Studies Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Student Life Diversity and Inclusion Resources Diversity Education Workshops and Trainings RISE Diversity Leadership Certificate Program Other Diversity Training Staff and Faculty Intercultural Development Inventory Students Achievement Initiative for Marginalized Males REACH Diversity Peer Educators Student Employees Sista Circle: Black Grads Dreamers+ Speak Series Discord Server Student Organizations Giving Making Diversity an Experience The Latest Updates on COVID-19 Highlighted Event April 1st, 2022 Diversity Institute is a one-day conference for students, faculty, and staff, Diversity Institute allows participants to engage in transformative sessions that enhance their cultural knowledge. This year's theme is Good Trouble: Allyship in Action. Participants will learn more about how to engage in ally behavior, and how to move past performative allyship into solidarity that can create meaningful change for marginalized communities. Register Today! Our Mission The Center for Diversity and Inclusion fosters an inclusive university community by providing services, programs, and support that engage, empower, and educate our highly diverse student population and campus community that contributes to student success. Upcoming Events and Workshops Full Calendar Jun 16 12:00 am Juneteenth Celebration Join the Center for Diversity and Inclusion in celebrating Juneteenth! “Juneteenth is the oldest nationally celebrated commemoration of the ending of slavery in the United States. From its Galveston, Texas origin in 1865, the observance of June 19th as the African American Emancipation Day has spread across the United States and beyond. Today Juneteenth commemorates African-American freedom and emphasizes education and achievement. It is a time for reflection and rejoicing. It is a time for assessment, self-improvement and for planning the future.” (juneteenth.com) Aug 22 12:00 am Get the Scoop CDI Student Mixer Join the Center for Diversity and Inclusion to learn about our services, and find your community at the University of Houston! More information to come. — Whether you’re a new or returning Coog, the University of Houston wants to give you a warm welcome! During Weeks of Welcome, the Center for Diversity and Inclusion puts on free mixers for students – no registration required! Aug 23 12:00 am First-Generation College Student Mixer Join the Center for Diversity and Inclusion for a first-generation college student mixer, and meet other students who are the first to attend college in their family! More information to come. — Whether you’re a new or returning Coog, the University of Houston wants to give you a warm welcome! During Weeks of Welcome, the Center for Diversity and Inclusion puts on free mixers for students to learn about our services, create relationships with one another, and find their community at the University of Houston! Aug 29 12:00 am Latine Student Mixer Join the Center for Diversity and Inclusion and create community with other Latine/x and Hispanic students! More information to come. — Whether you’re a new or returning Coog, the University of Houston wants to give you a warm welcome! During Weeks of Welcome, the Center for Diversity and Inclusion puts on free mixers for students to learn about our services, create relationships with one another, and find their community at the University of Houston! Aug 30 12:00 am Black Student Mixer Join the Center for Diversity and Inclusion and create community with other African-American and Black students! More information to come. — Whether you’re a new or returning Coog, the University of Houston wants to give you a warm welcome! During Weeks of Welcome, the Center for Diversity and Inclusion puts on free mixers for students to learn about our services, create relationships with one another, and find their community at the University of Houston! Check out our bi-weekly newsletter to stay up-to-date on engagement, opportunities, and related news! Latest Newsletter Subscribe Engage The Center provides programs and brave space environments to promote cross-cultural communication and culturally responsive practices that help diverse communities connect. Weeks of Welcome Mixers #IAMUH Cultural Student Organizations Reserve CDI Space Empower By engaging with CDI, community members will be able to articulate beliefs and exhibit behaviors that cultivate teamwork, critical thought, and communication skills needed to function in a diverse workforce and global community. REACH Diversity Peer Educators Achievement Initiative for Marginalized Males Educate The cultural competencies gained through workshops and intercultural coaching sessions provided by CDI promotes a learning environment where attendees are better equipped to understand multiple perspectives and promote a culture of inclusion. Workshops Intercultural Development Inventory Fall 2021 Student Distribution by Race and Ethnicity The University of Houston is the second most ethnically diverse major research university in the United States. Students come to UH from more than 137 nations & from across the world. Full list of distribution by race and ethnicity. The University of Houston is a designated Hispanic Serving Institution. The University of Houston is an Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander Serving Institution. Source: University of Houston, Statistical Handbook 33.3% Hispanic 21.6% White 22.0% Asian American 10.7% African American 7.7% International 3.0% Multiracial 0.1% Native American 0.1% Hawaiian / Pacific Islander Meet our Staff Varselles Cummings he/him/his Director vlcummin@central.uh.edu 713-743-3653 Michael Crook he/him/his Assistant Director macrook@central.uh.edu 713-743-6699 Lupita Hernandez she/her/hers Instructional Assistant lherna63@cougarnet.uh.edu 713-743-6274 Geraldine Lara she/her/hers Office Coordinator glara20@central.uh.edu 713-743-6074 Follow Us on Social Media Twitter Facebook Instagram Powered by Curator.io Phone & Email uhcdi@central.uh.edu 713-743-6047 Address Student Center South, Suite B12 4455 University Dr. Houston, TX 77204 Office Hours Monday – Friday 8:00am – 5:00pm University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies