Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Research Road to R1 Key Research Areas Research Centers and Institutes Research Administration Faculty Grants ☰ SMU SMU Research Road to R1 Road to R1 Research universities can prepare future professionals to tackle and create solutions to some of the world’s most pressing challenges. The Carnegie Classification system attempts to classify and distinguish universities in terms of their research productivity, with “Research One” (R1) being the pinnacle of distinction. What does it take to reach R1? To reach our lofty, but achievable, research goals will require progress in each of the seven measures monitored by Carnegie. We have made tremendous progress in recent years, moving from the third tier or R3 designation to R2, and with concentrated effort and investment can reach the R1 level. Seven Measures of the Carnegie Classification System Science & Engineering Research Expenditures Science & Engineering Research Staff PhDs Awarded in Science & Engineering PhDs Awarded in Social Sciences PhDs Awarded in Humanities Other Doctorates Non-Science and Engineering Research Expenditures Where are we now? During the 2021 – 2022 academic year, SMU will launch three external searches to fill strategic leadership positions that will support our research and graduate studies ambitions: 1) Vice Provost for Research and Chief Innovation Officer 2) Dean of the Moody School and Advanced Studies and Vice Provost for Graduate Education and 3) the Director of SMU’s Data Science Institute. Taking the recommendation of faculty-led task forces and working in consultation with the deans, SMU will also advertise cluster hires in fall 2021 for two areas of strategic research excellence: 1) 21st Century Technology and Education and 2) Earth Hazards and National Security. These clusters will enhance areas of established research strength at SMU and will serve as a model for future cluster hires to support SMU’s research and scholarly/creative ambitions. Plans are underway to advertise a data science cluster hire in fall 2023, once our new Data Science Institute Director comes onboard. Related Links Research administration Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share