Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Registration Services Academics Registration Services More in this Section Explore Registration Services: Course Selection & Registration Academic Rules & Procedures For Graduating Students & Alumni Leaves & Withdrawal Exams, Grading, & Honors Bar Certification Resources Contact Us FAQs The mission of the Office of Registration Services is to support scholarship, teaching, and learning at Columbia Law School. In so doing, we uphold the academic policies of the faculty with regard to equity and transparency and serve all members of our constituencies with respect and professionalism. Related Links Contact Registration Services Browse Courses Academic Calendar LawNet Popular Services Preregistration Registration Timeline Academic Calendar Bar Certification Transfer of Credit Policies Graduation and Diplomas Columbia/NYU Law Exchange Consumer Information (ABA-Required Disclosures) Curricular Practical Training (CPT)/ Optional Practical Training Dual and Joint Degree Programs Official Transcripts Enrollment Verification What We Do For Current Students Course Selection & Registration We work with the Faculty to develop the curriculum, craft the course schedule, and facilitate the registration process. Learn more. For Current Students Exams & Grading We administer final exams and manage the collection and distribution of grades and honors at the end of the semester. Learn more. For Graduating Students and Alumni Bar Certification & Licensure We complete the bar certification process and help to facilitate the professional licensure process in New York and other jurisdictions. Learn more. Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Law School News News Graduation 2021: Highlights of a Special Day Columbia Law celebrated the graduation of the 2021 cohort of J.D., LL.M., and Executive LL.M. students with a virtual ceremony, featuring keynote speaker U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken ’88, on April 29, 2021. Students Video Annah Akhoun-Murat ’22 LL.M.: Build a Sustainable Future Students Video Emily L. Drake ’22: Be Prepared and Know When to Ask for Help Students Video Jordan A.J. Jarrett ’22 LL.M.: Use the Law to Make Meaningful Impact Related Events View All Events May 31 2022 Deadline - June 6th - Moot Court Student Editor/LPW Teaching Fellow Tue, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. William and June Warren Hall, 1125 Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY 10027 Jun 1 2022 Revolution 12/13 | Abolition Feminism with Sarah Haley Wed, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. The People's Forum, 320 W. 37th St., New York, NY 10018 Jun 2 2022 Annual Staff Appreciation & Recognition Luncheon Thu, 12:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Faculty House, 64 Morningside Dr., New York, NY 10027 Presidential Ballroom View All Events Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.