Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Inside UMD News & Events Admissions Support UMD YouTube Facebook Twitter Instagram Home We Are UMD We Are UMD Chronicling the University of Maryland’s work to build a culture of respect, create a welcoming and safe campus, and celebrate our diverse community. See Actions and Progress Learn about actions UMD has taken and work that’s underway Get Involved Find ways to engage in this important work on campus Read the Latest Keep up to date on news and announcements Attend Events Join the conversation and hear from others across campus Joint President/Senate Inclusion & Respect Task Force Learn about the Task Force's work to consider how best to nurture a climate that is more respectful and inclusive of all members of our campus community, stands against hate, and reaffirms the values that define us a University. Resources Hate-Bias Incident Response Protocol UMD’s hate-bias incident response protocol ensures a coordinated response, provides support to impacted community members and ensures transparency with the campus community. Read more here. How to Report a Hate-Bias Incident To report an incident of hate-bias you may contact UMPD (including emergencies), by calling 301.405.3333 (mobile phone: #3333) or report online via Report Form. University of Maryland Police Department Ensures the safety and security of the campus community. Receives and assesses all hate-bias incident reports. Investigates reports of hate-bias incidents by gathering details, collecting evidence, sharing information with law enforcement partners, and consulting with legal experts. Pocomoke Building 7569 Baltimore Ave umpd.umd.edu Emergency: 911 or 301.405.3333 (mobile phone: #3333) Non-emergency: 301.405.3555 Office of Civil Rights and Sexual Misconduct Receives and assesses all hate-bias incident reports. Responds to all complaints of discrimination based on a legally protected class. 3101 Susquehanna Hall ocrsm.umd.edu 301.405.1142 Office of Diversity and Inclusion Encourages and supports the efforts of units throughout the University to achieve their diversity and inclusion goals. Provides campus programming in collaboration with other campus units to foster prevention efforts and facilitate responses to hate-bias incidents. The ODI Hate-Bias Coordinator receives all hate-bias incident reports, and coordinates provision of campus support services to individuals affected by hate-bias incidents. 2411 Marie Mount Hall faculty.umd.edu/diversity 301.405.6810 Undocumented Student Resources Provides resources and guidance to support the advancement of undocumented students during their time at Maryland. undocumented.umd.edu undoc@umd.edu Counseling Center Provides free and confidential therapy, as well as comprehensive support services, to help students manage personal, social, and academic challenges. 1101 Shoemaker Building 4281 Chapel Lane counseling.umd.edu 301.314.7651 Health Center Offers mental health services to students, as well as faculty and staff through its Faculty Staff Assistance Program. 140 Campus Drive health.umd.edu/mentalhealth/services health.umd.edu/FSAP health.umd.edu 301.314.8180 University of Maryland Chaplains Serves the spiritual needs of the University of Maryland community. thestamp.umd.edu/memorial_chapel/chaplains See Actions and Progress Read the Latest Get Involved Attend Events Resources Joint President/Senate Inclusion & Respect Task Force UMD Creates Online Tour Commemorating African-American History and Contributions to Campus: The new online tour includes 17 stops exploring the history of African-Americans at the university and their contributions to the campus community. Read More UMD to Honor Frederick Douglass’ 200th Birthday with Year-Long Initiative: UMD will celebrate the 200th birthday of Frederick Douglass with several events planned for 2018. Read More Your Voice Counts. Take the UMD Campus Climate Survey: We have launched an important initiative that provides every member of our campus community an opportunity to share their experiences and perspectives on diversity, equity and inclusion at UMD. Read More Administration Alumni Association Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Management History & Mission HEOA/Consumer Information (FAQs) Maryland Merchandise MPowering the State Rankings and Fast Facts Sustainability UMD Commitment to Student Athletes Virtual Tour Visitors, Parents and Families About The University of Maryland, College Park is the state's flagship university and one of the nation's preeminent public research universities. A global leader in research, entrepreneurship and innovation, the university is home to more than 40,700 students, 14,000 faculty and staff, and nearly 400,000 alumni all dedicated to the pursuit of Fearless Ideas. Located just outside Washington, D.C., we discover and share new knowledge every day through our renowned research enterprise and programs in academics, the arts and athletics. And we are committed to social entrepreneurship as the nation’s first “Do Good” campus. DO GOOD Introducing The Nation's First Do Good Campus Transforming Idealism into Impact Academic Calendar Teaching & Learning Transformation Center College Park Scholars Global Maryland Honors College Libraries Majors and Minors Office of Extended Studies Provost Registrar Special Academic Programs Testudo (Student Portal) Undergraduate Catalog Academics Spanning 12 schools and colleges, Maryland offers more than 300 degree-granting programs, many of them ranked among the best in the country. Our faculty includes two Nobel laureates, three Pulitzer Prize winners, 58 members of the national academies and scores of Fulbright scholars. And our students, who include the highest achievers in the state and nation, enjoy experiences unique to our location just outside the nation’s capital, including internships, research, and leadership and service opportunities. Schools and Colleges Agriculture and Natural Resources Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts and Humanities Behavioral and Social Sciences Business (Robert H. Smith) Computer, Mathematical, and Natural Sciences Education Engineering (A. James Clark) Graduate School Journalism (Philip Merrill) Information Studies Public Health Public Policy Undergraduate Studies Academy for Innovation and Entrepreneurship Colleges and Schools Division of Research FIRE: The First-Year Innovation & Research Experience Innovation Gateway Research and Innovation The University of Maryland is one of the world’s premier research institutions. With our strategic location and scores of partnerships with government and businesses, UMD conducts groundbreaking research on some of the biggest challenges facing our global community, including cybersecurity and terrorism, bioengineering, public health equity, food safety and climate change. We strive to discover new knowledge and put it to work through innovation and entrepreneurship, advancing economic development and transforming lives. The newly launched Innovation Gateway will guide you to the resources, programs, partners, and spaces you need to activate and scale your fearless ideas into innovations that launch new ventures, catalyze growth, and advance economic development. College of Arts and Humanities School of Music School of Theatre, Dance, and Performance Studies The Clarice Smith Performing Arts Center Michelle Smith Performing Arts Library School of Architecture, Planning & Preservation University of Maryland Center for Art and Knowledge at The Phillips Collection David C. Driskell Center DeVos Institute of Arts Management Galleries The Art & Learning Center at Stamp Arts At the University of Maryland, the arts, the humanities and the sciences intersect to address important societal issues and shed new light on the human experience. Our vibrant campus arts community collaborates with local and national cultural organizations such as the Phillips Collection, Kennedy Center and Folger Shakespeare Library. Student and faculty artists, designers, historians, writers and performers are exploring new media, presenting new perspectives, investigating new techniques and engaging new audiences. Events June 3 9:30am - 11:30am NOI+F Open Rehearsal with Manuel Lopez-Gomez June 3 7:30pm - 9:30pm Take The Reins - Barber's Knoxville: Summer of 1915 June 4 6:30pm - 7:00pm NOI+F SPARK! Lounge with Elizabeth Massey, Ph.D. June 4 7:30pm - 9:30pm Lopez-Gomez Returns with Tower, Ravel & Mussorgsky Intercollegiate Athletics University of Maryland Golf Course University Recreation and Wellness Athletics Home of the Terrapins, the University of Maryland has one of the nation’s most recognizable and successful athletics programs. More than 550 student-athletes compete each year in 20 intercollegiate sports—12 for women and eight for men. Since 2005 alone, Maryland has won 19 national championships, including NCAA titles in women’s basketball, men’s soccer, men's lacrosse, women’s lacrosse, and field hockey. Since joining the Big Ten Conference in 2014, UMD has won a combined 32 regular season and tournament championships. Fear the Turtle! Our Commitment to Student-Athletes At the University of Maryland, our commitment to the safety and well-being of our students is paramount and resolute. For our student-athletes, that means both on and off the field. The University of Maryland is committed to accountability, transparency, and fairness and is working to ensure our program upholds the values of our University. Learn more about our commitment. Book Center Career Center Counseling Center Dining Services Fraternity and Sorority Life Health Center Memorial Chapel Off-Campus Housing Resident Life Stamp Student Union Student Affairs Student Clubs Transportation Services University Recreation and Wellness Student Life The Terp experience extends beyond classrooms, labs and studios. It encompasses residence halls and dining halls, clubs and sports, fraternities and sororities, campus events and performances, and countless off-campus destinations. Maryland touts 800-plus student organizations, dozens of prestigious living and learning communities, and countless other ways to get involved. Students here can create a unique identity and grow as individuals, even as they’re part of a close-knit and diverse community. Latest information on Coronavirus Calendar Directories Map On Campus Keep Learning! Earn credits, satisfy a major requirement, and stay on track for graduation. Classes meet on campus or online. Convenient 3 or 6-week sessions, May 31 - August 19, 2022. Read More UMD Reflects / University Gathers Resources, Provides Updates And Takes Action To Combat Hate Read More Campus Alerts Campus Calendar Resources for News Media Terp Magazine UMD Right Now We Are UMD Weather Alerts News & Events News Latest news at Maryland Today For media releases visit UMD Right Now Coronavirus Updates: We have worked diligently to develop and enhance plans for reopening our campus while prioritizing the health and safety of our community members. Hundreds of faculty, staff and students have collaborated in work-groups and teams to create and maintain a physically distant, yet academically and socially rich environment for the fall semester. Our plans continue to be coordinated with state and county health officials, with additional guidance provided by the University System of Maryland. Latest 4 Maryland Updates Events June 3 9:30am - 11:30am NOI+F Open Rehearsal with Manuel Lopez-Gomez June 3 7:30pm - 9:30pm Take The Reins - Barber's Knoxville: Summer of 1915 June 4 6:30pm - 7:00pm NOI+F SPARK! Lounge with Elizabeth Massey, Ph.D. All Events Admissions Terps are bold, smart, curious and proud. We do good, in our communities and out in the world. We are fearless. And we are always looking to expand our ranks. Interested in becoming a University of Maryland student? This is where to start. Undergraduate Admissions Requirements Frequently Asked Questions 90+ Undergraduate Majors Graduate Admissions Admissions Process Graduate Programs Financial Aid Visit Contact Us Search Search keyword or phrase Campus Resources Accessibility Campus Calendar Campus Map Directories Human Resources Policies and Procedures Student Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Testudo (Student Portal) Technical Support Change Password Division of IT Get IT Support Giving to Maryland Give to Maryland Giving back is a fearless Terp tradition, and there are many ways you can not only keep it alive, but also make an instant impact. Give Now Support the Clark Challenge for the Maryland Promise Scholarship and double your impact through the Clark Challenge. University of Maryland on YouTube University of Maryland on Facebook University of Maryland on Twitter University of Maryland on Instagram The Flagship Institution of the State of Maryland College Park, MD 20742, USA · 301.405.1000 Information for Visitors, Parents and Families FAQs (HEOA/Consumer Information) Contact Us Careers Issues Office of Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct UMD Police Department Web Accessibility Policies and Procedures Public Records Request Privacy Notice Report Fraud and Waste MPowering the State ×