We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × About Students Future Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Partners College Giving Contact Tours Tours Building Maps 1 This slide contains video without audio. The description of the video is "Cal Poly Pomona. The Collins College of Hospitality Management. Number 19 in the Nation by CEO World Magazine. 4th top degree producer in the country by DATA USA. 3rd top degree producer for MINORITIES in the U S by Diverse Issues in Higher Education. A C P H A Accredited. 86% Job Placement Rate, Abundance of Scholarships, State-of-the-art Facilities. Faculty Experts, Customized Curriculum, Industry Partnerships. Experience the Polytechnic Advantage" Previous Next The Collins College Of Hospitality Management Congratulations to Our Class of 2022 Valedictorians and Julian A. McPhee Scholar! Patrick Su Valedictorian Thinh Nguyen Valedictorian Patrick Su Julian A. McPhee Scholar In Memory of Dean Lea R. Dopson, Ed.D The Collins College hosted a celebration of life to commemorate our dear Dean Lea Dopson, Ed.D on Thursday, May 12 from 4 p.m. until 5:30 p.m. at The Collins College of Hospitality Management, Building 80, Marriott Learning Center, “Dwell in Possibility” Courtyard. A video of the ceremony will be available shortly. We kindly ask that in lieu of flowers, you consider donating to the Dr. Lea Dopson Memorial Scholarship fund. Please view this webpage to make donations and learn more here. Share your electronic messages of condolences and memories by completing this form. Please feel free to contact us by email at collins@cpp.edu or call us at (909) 869-2275 View Commemoration Page Shaping Future Hospitality Leaders The Collins College of Hospitality Management at Cal Poly Pomona is one of the leading programs in the world, and is consistently ranked among the best in the country. Future industry leaders earn a world-class education in state-of-the-art facilities featuring industry standard equipment and the latest in learning technology. Our degree programs connect theory, practice, and research, and are focused on creativity, discovery and innovation so students are ready to lead all major sectors of the global hospitality industry upon graduation. Learn More Apply Now Schedule a Tour Request Information Program Information VISION, MISSION, CORE VALUES VISION Our vision is to be a world-class college for shaping future hospitality leaders. MISSION We educate a diverse student body for leadership in the global hospitality industry through experiential and lifelong learning, and we advance the field of hospitality management through innovation, excellence in teaching, applied research, and service to our communities. CORE VALUES ‣ We Pursue Academic Excellence We pursue academic excellence through student centered experiential and life-long learning, relevant applied scholarship, and service to our communities. ‣ We Inspire Student Success We inspire student success by providing intensive industry engagement, quality academic experiences and advising support, and a vibrant hospitality culture. ‣ We Embrace Diversity Our student, faculty, and staff diversity across multiple dimensions is deeply valued and respected. ‣ We Partner with the Hospitality Industry We partner with industry and alumni through mutually beneficial and meaningful relationships to provide well-prepared future hospitality leaders. ‣ We Practice Collegiality and Ethics We ensure a collegial and ethical environment in which faculty, staff, and students can thrive. LEARNING OUTCOMES Program Learning Outcomes Our graduates will demonstrate leadership principles as they create favorable stakeholder experiences through the use of inquiry, analytical thinking, collaboration, and hospitality industry skills. Undergraduate Student Learning Outcomes Through participating in curricular and co-curricular learning opportunities, including professional work experience and networking with our industry partners, Bachelor of Science Graduates of The Collins College of Hospitality Management will have the competencies necessary to successfully manage in a hospitality environment. These competencies include: ‣ Characteristics of Hospitable Service Create favorable guest experiences by using professional service management techniques in a hospitality business environment ‣ Information Literacy Locate, assess, and use a wide variety of sources methods, and tools available in a hospitality environment to communicate quantitative, qualitative and/or scientific information in the decision-making process ‣ Analytical Thinking Make clear and logical decisions by organizing, analyzing, and interpreting information and formulating rational solutions in a hospitality business environment ‣ Teamwork Contribute to positive team performance in a hospitality business environment by appraising and managing one’s own team-related competencies, in particular, the knowledge, skills and attitudes considered transportable from one team to another ‣ Leadership Model the behaviors of effective, ethical leaders by demonstrating the fundamental principles of leadership in a hospitality business environment Graduate Student Learning Outcomes Through participating in curricular and co-curricular learning opportunities, Master of Science Graduates of The Collins College will be able to manage professionally in various hospitality organizations. Specifically, Collins College Graduates will be able to: ‣ Characteristics of Hospitable Service Create favorable guest experiences by designing effective service delivery systems in a hospitality business environment ‣ Information Literacy Locate, assess, and use a wide variety of sources methods, and tools available in a hospitality environment to communicate quantitative, qualitative and/or scientific information in the decision-making process ‣ Analytical Thinking Use appropriate statistical analyses and methodological techniques and interpret the results to formulate rational solutions in a hospitality business environment ‣ Teamwork Contribute to positive team performance in a hospitality business environment by appraising and managing one’s team- related competencies, in particular, the knowledge, skills, and attitudes considered transportable from one team to another ‣ Leadership Demonstrate advanced principles of strategy and leadership while working with others in a hospitality business environment More information >> PLACEMENT AND RETENTION RATES Program Student Profile For the past three academic years (Source: Accreditation Commission for Programs in Hospitality Administration, with data provided by The Collins College) Undergraduate Enrollment 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 % Students employed in the hospitality industry or a related field within 90 days after graduation 92.2% 92.4% 70% % Students continuing their education within 90 days after graduation 1.8% 1.7% 2.6% Retention Rate % – Freshmen to Sophomore 88% 89.6% 91.3% ACCREDITATION Our program is one of only 70 hospitality management and tourism programs worldwide accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Programs in Hospitality Administration (ACPHA). Accreditation is a status granted to an educational program that has been found to meet or exceed stated standards of educational quality. About ACPHA >> Recent News In Memory of Dean Lea Dopson, Ed.D: Message to the Community May 03, 2022 We are grieving and now working diligently to honor Dr. Lea R. Dopson’s legacy as an icon in hospita... Read more Dr. Don St. Hilaire Receives 2022 Outstanding Faculty Advisor Award April 11, 2022 We are excited to announce and congratulate Professor Don St. Hilaire as this year's Outstanding Fac... Read more Ranked No. 10 in the World by CEOWorld Magazine March 28, 2022 Coming in at No. 10 on the world list, The Collins College moved up from its 2020 spot at No. 12. It... Read more 2022 Service Awards Recognitions March 21, 2022 We are proud to announce and congratulate Lesley Butler, Ben Dewald, Ed.D., Ann Lara, Neha Singh, Ph... Read more See Full News List... Upcoming Events Oct 13 2022 Hospitality Innovation Speaker Series: Gilda Perez-Alvarado, JLL Date: Oct 13 Time: 12:00 PM - 01:00 PM Location: Online See Full Event List... THE COLLINS COLLEGE OF HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT Cal Poly Pomona 3801 West Temple Avenue Pomona, CA 91768 collins@cpp.edu (909) 869-2275 Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Twitter 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers