By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Apply Enrollment Options More from this Section Deadlines FAQ Application Mailing Addresses Early Decision College-Specific Requirements What We Look For AP/IB/CLEP Credits Enrollment Options and Admission Plans Enrollment Options Single Enrollment Single enrollment means you apply to one of nine undergraduate colleges where you will earn a bachelor’s degree. This is the most common option. Dual Enrollment Dual enrollment means you apply to two different colleges and have two different majors, but you receive a single bachelor’s degree granted by both colleges. Most dual enrollments are readily completed in four years; you must satisfy major requirements in each college. Dual enrollment options are offered between the following schools and colleges: College of Arts and Sciences | Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs and the Newhouse School of Public Communications School of Education and College of Arts and Sciences | Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (secondary education programs) School of Education and the College of Visual and Performing Arts (art and music education) School of Education and Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics (Inclusive Early Childhood Education program) Newhouse School of Public Communications and the School of Information Studies Whitman School of Management and the School of Information Studies Whitman School of Management and the Newhouse School of Public Communications Whitman School of Management and the College of Arts and Sciences | Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (applied mathematics, biology, biotechnology, chemistry, earth sciences, international relations, mathematics) Combined Enrollment Combined enrollment allows students to have one major in the College of Arts and Sciences | Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs and one major in the College of Engineering and Computer Science. It leads to two degrees, one conferred by each college. This enrollment option requires an additional year of study. Admission Plans Students may apply for fall or spring semester. If applying for fall, first-year applicants to Syracuse University are offered two ways to apply: either through the Early Decision plan or the Regular Decision plan. Please refer to application deadlines for more information. Early Decision If Syracuse University is your first choice, consider applying for Early Decision (ED). As an ED candidate, you agree to enroll at Syracuse University if admitted to your preferred college. The ED application deadline is November 15. Most ED candidates are typically notified of their admission decision prior to January 1. The EDII application deadline is January 1 and candidates are typically notified prior to February 1. You may apply to other colleges and universities through Regular Decision or Early Action, with the understanding that you will withdraw these applications if admitted to Syracuse University. As part of the ED application, you will be required to submit your e-signature on the Common Application agreeing to the terms of ED. Your parent and guidance counselor will need to sign off as well. If you are applying for financial aid, you will receive an early estimated financial aid award package. While Early Decision is binding, we understand that financial considerations may affect a student’s ability to enroll. Find out if Early Decision is right for you . Regular Decision Most applicants to Syracuse University apply for a Regular Decision (RD). To have the best opportunity to be notified of an admission decision in late March, be sure to complete all admissions requirements (including auditions and portfolio reviews) by the required deadlines. The deadline for Regular Decision is January 1. Transfer Students (Fall) Transfer students who would like to apply for fall should apply by July 1. However, you are encouraged to apply as early as possible. Notification will begin late February on a rolling basis as application reviews are completed. Although enrollment in some colleges and programs may be limited, transfer applications will be evaluated as they are received and completed by July 1. Spring semester transcripts may be required, but applicants should not wait until the conclusion of the semester to apply. Students will continue to be aided as funds remain. Check out the Transfer Applicants section for helpful information about transferring to Syracuse. Applying for the Spring Semester Both high school and transfer applicants are welcome to apply for the spring semester. Applications should be submitted by November 15. Transfer applicants are encouraged to apply by this date, and any applications submitted after this date will be considered on a space-available basis. Transfer students should also submit fall transcripts as soon as possible; credit evaluations will follow the admissions notification. For high school students wanting to take time off or pursue part-time study prior to starting college, spring admission is an option. Spring orientation is available for students entering midyear, and on-campus housing is available. Please refer to the application deadlines and the financial aid deadlines for more information on deadlines. Early Admission Early Admission is an option for secondary school juniors who have completed all but a few course requirements for secondary school graduation. It is the responsibility of students to meet requirements to obtain a diploma from their secondary school at the end of their first year at Syracuse University. A personal interview is required. High school juniors who will finish all of their graduation requirements early must apply under the Regular Decision plan. Contact the Office of Admissions for additional requirements . Discovery Programs: First-Semester Liberal Arts Programs Florence, Madrid, and Strasbourg When submitting your application for admission to The College of Arts and Sciences or College of Engineering and Computer Science at Syracuse University, you may indicate interest in a Discovery Program on the Common Application. View more information about the Discovery Program . Related Pages Enrollment Options for International Students International students have three enrollment options when applying to Syracuse University. Early Decision If Syracuse University is your first choice, consider applying for Early Decision (ED). Application Deadlines and Timeline Be aware of the application deadlines for individual programs and enrollment dates. Application Fee Waiver We strive to support all students and families who wish to apply to Syracuse University. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy