Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Kate Reed's sonic invisibility cloak confronts issues surrounding privacy in the digital age and addresses the harm humans inflict on the natural environment. Photo: Kate Reed Topics Arts and Humanities Date July 9, 2020 2020-07-09 Media Contact Jill Kimball [email protected] 401-863-5450 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Summer Experiences Every May, Brown students leave their coursework behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — a tradition that has continued remotely during the current COVID-19 moment. See more Kate Reed: Finding a niche in biomimetic design The Brown-RISD dual degree student is pursuing several summer projects that use cutting-edge technology to connect people to the natural world and to each other. https://www.youtube.com/embed/FOjKKrdFKKI PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Summer 2020 is panning out differently than Kate Reed imagined just a few months ago. Reed, who is entering her fifth and final year in the Brown-RISD Dual Degree Program, planned to spend the summer making an installation for Burning Man — the well-chronicled art and community festival held annually in the Nevada desert. Inspired in part by a Brown course she took in Fall 2019, Data Visceralization and Climate Change, Reed dreamed up and designed a work she called “Luna.” “It was going to be this 12-foot dome covered in metal moths,” she said. “The entire dome was going to be connected to live tidal data and glow according to the tides. You would be able to go up to the dome, put your hand on it, and individual moths were going to pulse with your heartbeat. It was this idea of, how can I create this space where you can share your heartbeat with the heartbeat of the Earth?” In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, Burning Man will take place only in cyberspace this year. But that doesn’t mean Reed is taking a creative hiatus this summer. Instead, she’s at work on three new biomimetic designs — tools or works of art that, like her proposed “Luna” project, use cutting-edge technology to draw people closer to their natural surroundings and to each other. “ My work is focused on the question, how do we use design to eradicate social problems? How can we use design and design tools to give communities the things that they need to solve their own problems? ” Kate Reed With funding provided by a Cicada Art at a Distance grant, Reed is collaborating with Boston-based African drummer Cornell Coley on “Ritual Objects for a New World,” a project that seeks to reintroduce and enhance rituals in people’s everyday lives with music. As part of an ongoing partnership between RISD and Hyundai, she is also building a “sonic invisibility cloak” that confronts issues surrounding privacy in the digital age and addresses the harm humans inflict on the natural environment. Reed’s invisibility cloak, which employs both the latest sound technology from Hyundai and the camouflaging techniques animals have used for millennia, will likely be exhibited in Seoul in late 2020, she said. And she’s also employing her coding knowledge, data-gathering skills and design experience to create a “wearable pollution cloud” — a project sponsored by the electronics company Digitspace. Reed envisions this piece of wearable art functioning as a helpful yet beautiful air-pollution monitor. “Right now, we are in a social emergency,” Reed said. “As a culture, we are just struggling so much. Our climate's changing. We're not talking to each other. We’re not connecting with others or with our environment. That's a huge problem. So what I really strive for is to create these ‘Holy cow!’ moments where people just turn to each other and they look and they talk.” [W]hat I really strive for is to create these ‘Holy cow!’ moments where people just turn to each other and they look and they talk. Kate Reed These are just the latest in a years-long series of projects that Reed has undertaken since she was a teen — most of which transcend boundaries between art, engineering, social justice, environmental science and technology. Her projects integrate elements of the natural world into technologically innovative tools. They offer social commentary alongside utility. And some are as apt to confront major societal issues as they are to be exhibited in an art gallery or worn on a fashion runway. “My work is focused on the question, how do we use design to eradicate social problems?” Reed said. “How can we use design and design tools to give communities the things that they need to solve their own problems?” Reed’s education has always been a hands-on endeavor. As a homeschooled child, Reed said she “lived my textbooks” — she and her family traveled to Italy to study the European Renaissance, and they ventured to Greece to learn about classical civilizations. She attended high school at NuVu Studio, a project-based learning school founded by a Massachusetts Institute of Technology Ph.D. graduate. While there, Reed and some of her classmates developed an inexpensive, 3D-printed hand-drive wheelchair attachment — a tool that normally costs thousands of dollars to purchase. Reed and her classmates garnered national recognition for the project, even visiting the White House for a demonstration. In 2016, Reed, center, visited President Barack Obama at the White House to demonstrate the function of the 3D-printed hand drive wheelchair attachment she had created with her high school classmates. When it came time for Reed to apply to college, finding a university that offered a similar hands-on learning experiences was at the top of her list of criteria. The Brown-RISD Dual Degree Program had the flexible, socially conscious and experimental atmosphere she craved. As part of her independent concentration at Brown on social innovation and entrepreneurship, Reed has sampled courses spanning the entire University catalog, from music to engineering to computer science to modern culture and media. She calls herself “the poster child for the Open Curriculum,” Brown’s singular approach to undergraduate education. “What’s so cool about these classes is that it’s all these different people coming together from all these different departments,” Reed said. “One robotics class I took had concentrators in religious studies, engineering, computer science… and then me. The things that we were making were so interesting. The ways we were pushing each other to think differently were amazing. A group project at Brown is kind of a dream, because everyone does the work and everyone has weird, interesting ideas. For Reed, her years at Brown and the Rhode Island School of Design have inspired dozens of projects — from a collection of exoskeleton-like musical prosthetics that convey the wearer’s emotion through sound, to storytelling crowns, which allow people to exchange intimate stories and share unique perspectives through headwear. Lately, she has been most focused on creating biomimetic designs like those she is building this summer. With a 2019 project called “Botany Bots,” Reed mounted indoor plants on top of robotic casters, giving them agency to follow the sunlight, and each other, around a room. Her breathing choker, created in 2019, pulses along with the wearer’s heartbeat, encouraging emotional openness and inviting conversation. Kate Reed’s course list A typical semester for Reed involves three RISD classes and two Brown classes. Reed said she strives to take at least one robotics-focused or hands-on Brown course per semester. Here are just a few of the Brown courses she has taken and enjoyed. MUSC 1240I Building Musical Instruments CSCI 1951C Designing Humanity Centered Robotics MCM 1701J Data Visceralization and Climate Change PLCY 1910 Social Entrepreneurship Reed believes it’s a mistake to look to science fiction for inspiration when developing new technology. Rather than attempting to recreate the fictional supercomputers, embeddable microchips and projected images that have been featured in books and on television since the 1950s, Reed has argued that it’s best to take technological cues from nature. “The first submarines were designed to look like whales,” she said. “We took the hints from birds when trying to fly. But for some reason, computers are supposed to be like ‘Star Trek.’ It just doesn't make any sense! I think it's really important that designers use our skills and our abilities to create wearable technology that looks and feels like it's part of the human body.” Someday, Reed said, she hopes to create her own design lab focused on creating a closer connection between people and computers. Whatever her career trajectory, Reed said she is grateful for the unfailing support and open-mindedness of Brown faculty. “I feel like I can call any professor at any time of day and say, ‘I don't know what's happening — my project isn't working!’" she said. “And they will tell me: ‘We're going to get to the finish line. You have a vision. Here's how we get there.’ “I’ve learned that there’s no reason to be afraid to come in and have these conversations with professors,” she added. “It’s cheesy, but the Brown slogan is true: You really are the architect of your education.” Related News: Summer Experiences Health and Medicine Parisa Afsharian: Translating research into actionable health advice August 18, 2021 As a Hassenfeld Summer Scholar, Afsharian is researching the connection between language and health outcomes – and using her multilingualism to improve the health of families. Read Article Open details for Parisa Afsharian: Translating research into actionable health advice Social Sciences Josh Bricker: Investigating whether low public defender spending explains high incarceration rates August 12, 2021 As a summer research assistant, the rising senior is analyzing decades of data to investigate whether increasing spending on state public defender programs could lower America’s uniquely high incarceration rate. Read Article Open details for Josh Bricker: Investigating whether low public defender spending explains high incarceration rates Student Life Sarah Zylberfuden: Making connections in canine cognition July 28, 2021 With dogs important contributors in everything from rescue operations to assisting people with disabilities, the rising senior is spending her summer in a Brown laboratory researching the reasoning abilities of man’s best friend. Read Article Open details for Sarah Zylberfuden: Making connections in canine cognition Student Life Whitney Terrill: Aligning personal insurance with collective good July 21, 2021 As a member of B-Lab — the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship’s summer startup accelerator — Terrill is developing the Reem Company, an insurance carrier that benefits the greater good, as outlined by her Islamic faith. Read Article Open details for Whitney Terrill: Aligning personal insurance with collective good Arts and Humanities Halle Bryant: Indexing Rhode Island’s Indigenous history July 14, 2021 The Class of 2021 graduate is working with Rhode Island’s Tomaquag Museum to index 1930s issues of a Native American magazine that sheds light on the lives of Indigenous people in New England and beyond. Read Article Open details for Halle Bryant: Indexing Rhode Island’s Indigenous history Student Life Pre-college programs at Brown offer high school students the chance to learn on campus or online July 8, 2021 The first in-person [email protected] sessions since COVID-19’s arrival are welcoming nearly 800 high school students to campus this summer, while many others participate virtually from across the globe. Read Article Open details for Pre-college programs at Brown offer high school students the chance to learn on campus or online Arts and Humanities Jeremy Chan: Gamifying the scramble for Africa July 7, 2021 As a teaching assistant in the history course African Experiences of Empire, Chan is designing board games that deepen students’ knowledge of everyday life in sub-Saharan Africa as European powers were seizing control. Read Article Open details for Jeremy Chan: Gamifying the scramble for Africa Student Life Justin Li: Keeping Pride alive in Providence during a challenging year June 30, 2021 Brown-RISD dual degree student Justin Li led efforts to revive Pride Month activities in Rhode Island this year after challenges related to COVID-19 threatened to cancel the longstanding tradition. Read Article Open details for Justin Li: Keeping Pride alive in Providence during a challenging year Student Life BrownConnect Summer Institute: Adapting a beloved novel into a Broadway play August 20, 2020 As part of the BrownConnect Summer Institute, Brown students and recent graduates considered the creative and practical challenges of transforming the bestselling novel “Wonder” into a Broadway musical. Read Article Open details for BrownConnect Summer Institute: Adapting a beloved novel into a Broadway play Health and Medicine Cesar Orduña: Delivering free virus tests to Rhode Island’s underserved August 12, 2020 Since May, a Brown senior and other students have played an instrumental role in providing COVID-19 tests to low-income, uninsured Rhode Island residents, many of whom are working on the front lines amid a global pandemic. Read Article Open details for Cesar Orduña: Delivering free virus tests to Rhode Island’s underserved Student Life Emily Ma and Liyuan Ao: Helping rural teens find their voices August 7, 2020 With support from a Royce fellowship, two undergraduate students are teaching middle-schoolers in rural China how to express themselves and transform their communities through photography. Read Article Open details for Emily Ma and Liyuan Ao: Helping rural teens find their voices Arts and Humanities Ali Dipp: Building a platform for ‘borderlanders’ in the Southwest August 6, 2020 Through digital marketplaces, murals and storytelling, the Brown-RISD dual degree student and El Paso, Texas, native seeks to celebrate the unique character of the Southwest. Read Article Open details for Ali Dipp: Building a platform for ‘borderlanders’ in the Southwest Tags Open Curriculum Summer Experiences The College Related news: Arts and Humanities John Hay Library acquires Puerto Rican playwright’s personal papers May 11, 2022 A new collection of drafts, notes and correspondence from playwright José Rivera gives scholars a window into one artist’s process and provides new perspective on the lived experiences of Latin Americans. Read Article Open details for John Hay Library acquires Puerto Rican playwright’s personal papers Arts and Humanities Kent Kleinman appointed faculty director of the Brown Arts Institute April 27, 2022 Kleinman, who currently serves as provost at Rhode Island School of Design, will lead the development and implementation of academic programs within Brown University’s Arts Institute. Read Article Open details for Kent Kleinman appointed faculty director of the Brown Arts Institute Arts and Humanities Brown music historian weighs in on racism, Russia and Wagner’s legacy April 18, 2022 Michael Steinberg, a professor of music and history at Brown, has curated a new exhibition on Richard Wagner, one of the 19th century’s most influential and problematic cultural figures, in Berlin. Read Article Open details for Brown music historian weighs in on racism, Russia and Wagner’s legacy Summer Experiences Every May, Brown students leave their coursework behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — a tradition that has continued remotely during the current COVID-19 moment. See more Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Kate Reed: Finding a niche in biomimetic design Open details for Kate Reed: Finding a niche in biomimetic design Bookmark this Page