Office of Student Health & Wellness Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Insurance & Immunization Records Secondary Navigation Main Home Health Insurance Vaccination Records Forms & Guides FAQs TC Office of Student Health & Wellness A view of NYC from Central Park Welcome to Student Insurance & Immunization Records! Our office is tasked with managing enrollment for the AETNA Student Health Insurance plan and ensuring students are in compliance with New York State laws and Teachers College policies regarding immunizations. Preserving our students' health and wellness is paramount. We are here to help you with your insurance and immunization needs. Student Health Insurance Having health insurance is key to helping ensure predictable health care costs and to support students in the achievement of their personal and academic goals. In an effort to reinforce this aim, Teachers College requires most students to have comprehensive health insurance as part of enrollment in the College. Teachers College offers the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan, in partnership with Aetna Student Health, to all registered students enrolled in degree-granting programs. Immunization Records All incoming students must provide an official record of their Measles, Mumps and Rubella (MMR) immunity, COVID-19 vaccinations, and meet the Meningitis requirements. These regulations are in accordance with New York State Public Health Law 2165 and Teachers College policy. For guidance on the requirements and submission processes, please visit Vaccination Records Columbia Health Columbia Health provides routine and urgent medical care to Teachers College students. For appointments, referrals, and more information, please visit Columbia Health or call 212-854-7426 Helpful Contact Information TC Preparedness Aetna Student Health Important Dates Contact Us Insurance and Immunization Records * Email: health-immunization@tc.edu Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links