Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Graduate Student Life Menu Main Nav Graduate Student Life Contact Back Back Close About Overview Murray House Meet Our Staff Programs and Services Overview Doctoral Writing Group Graduate Leadership Program Grads Give Back GPS Grad Student Retreat New Graduate and Professional Student Orientation Grad Student Association Overview Senate and Student Organizations Campus Life Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Programs and Services Home Programs and Services The Office of Graduate Student Life sponsors a number of campus-wide initiatives for all graduate students at Boston College. Orientation Learn More This virtual series welcomes incoming graduate and professional students to BC and assists them in the transition to graduate school. Orientation connects students to key staff, faculty, and resources at the University. Weeks of Welcome The OGSL, in coordination with the GSA and grad student organizations, supports events that help students meet one another throughout their first few weeks of school. GPS Retreat Goals, Purpose, Success is an overnight retreat experience for first-year masters students designed to provide a much-needed space for engagement in self-reflection and meaningful conversation about the realities of graduate school at BC. GLP Learn More The Graduate Leadership Program is a workshop series designed to help graduate students gain deeper self-awareness as leaders. Doctoral Writing Group Learn More Guest faculty and authors provide brief opening remarks to jumpstart the writing process followed by virtual, focused writing sessions to help you work toward the completion of your research and dissertation. Murray House Learn More The BC graduate student center offers FREE coffee and tea every day. Play pool or ping pong, use our computer lab to print, or reserve a quiet space to study! Student Orgs and Governments Learn More Registered graduate student organizations and governments play a vital role in creating and building community for graduate students. There are over 30 graduate groups at BC. GSA Learn More The graduate student government of Boston College sponsors educational, social, and cultural programs for graduate students. The GSA also convenes the Graduate Student Senate Newsletter Keep up-to-date on all aspects related to grad life at Boston College, such as events, resources, discounts, on-campus jobs, and much more. You will automatically begin receiving this newsletter during your first week of school. Grad Student Appreciation Month Graduate and Professional Student Appreciation Month occurs throughout April and celebrates the important contributions graduate and professional students make to the BC community and the tremendous impact they have on campus. International Student Programs Learn More In collaboration with the Office of International Students and Scholars, the OGSL sponsors a variety of programs including a weekly Grad Discussion and Students with Families programming Study by the Sea In collaboration with Campus Ministry, the Study by the Sea Retreat for graduate students is offered during spring break and provides a space for quiet work, reflection, and community on the beautiful shores of Cohasset, MA. Back To Top Back To Top Graduate Student Life The John Courtney Murray, S.J. House 292 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-1855 gsc@bc.edu About Programs Grad Student Association Campus Life Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College