Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Student Accessibility Services Students: Registration Student Accessibility Services Students: Registration Registering with SAS Brown University does not require that students disclose a disability or impose accommodations without consent. Self-identifying a disability and requesting accommodations are personal decisions. If a student requests accommodations at Brown, that individual is responsible for completing the SAS registration process. While the general registration process is outlined below, our staff is available to work with students around specific questions/concerns that might arise. Please contact us at [email protected] or 401-863-9588 to communicate with a staff member directly about this process. How to Register Step 1: Provide SAS Registration Forms and Documentation Complete our Information & Release Form and return it to [email protected]. Provide documentation of disability. Disability documentation can be very helpful to help us understand your particular needs and how we can best accommodate them. We are able to accept many types of documentation. For example: Medical records or records from a healthcare provider Educational records (e.g. an IEP or 504 Plan, school evaluations Neuropsychological evaluations Diagnostic information from health, mental health, or other service providers Vocational assessments Military documentation (for those with service-related disabilities) Proof of accommodations used on standardized exams (e.g. SAT or ACT) Accommodation letters from previous higher education institutions (Please note that Student Accessibility Services has no obligation to honor accommodations provided by other educational institutions 3. Request an appropriate medical/clinical provider to complete our Verification Form and have it sent to SAS via email/fax. Please read our Documentation Guidelines which explains the type of information that needs to be included in the Verification Form. We highly recommend you provide the Documentation Form along with the Verification form to your provider. 4. Complete and submit additional forms for Housing, Dining, and/or Parking accommodations as directed. 5. Schedule a time to meet with a SAS staff member by calling 401-863-9588 (see below for more information about this step). All forms can be found on our left-hand menu under "Forms and Registration Materials." They can also be requested by emailing [email protected] Step 2: Meet with a SAS Staff Member After submitting the required documentation, registering students meet individually with a SAS staff member to review documentation, discuss needs, and learn about how the accommodation process works. Appointments for academic accommodations can be scheduled by calling the SAS office at 401-863-9588. If you are submitting documentation for dining accommodations, please also schedule an appointment with a Dining Services Nutritionist, at [email protected] If you are interested in housing accommodations please refer to the Housing Accommodation page for more information. We are glad to meet with students online or in person before a semester begins. These appointments are essential for students in need of academic support as we will officially approve accommodations and explain the process of communicating with faculty in this meeting. So please do not forget to call and schedule an appointment after sending us your documentation! 401-863-9588 during weekday business hours. Step 3: Communicate with Faculty About Implementing Your Accommodations After meeting with a SAS staff member to review accommodations and needs, you will need to communicate with faculty and staff about your accessibility needs, so your accommodations can be implemented. Students are required to do the following: Notify faculty of accommodation letters for each class via the SAS Student Online Portal. It is best practice to click the "Get Letter" button in that process to send a copy of the letter to faculty and include a short narrative where you introduce yourself, and explain to the professor what would be helpful to you regarding your accommodations. It will be very helpful to include in this narrative what you would hope the professor can do to help you be successful given your accommodations. We have compiled some example accommodation messages. It does not need to be long! A short paragraph will suffice. Let the professor know in the email what is the best way to communicate with you to ask questions regarding your accommodations-- either by email, setting up a zoom, or an in person meeting. Please remember that while the professor can ask you questions as to how best ensure access in class, you have a right to privacy and you do not have to disclose to anyone your diagnosis, your disability, or any protected medical information that you do not think is relevant to the accommodations! If you are approved for Dining, Housing, or mobility accommodations, and you have questions, please reach out to the SAS team directly. [email protected] Other Student Responsibilities While SAS will support and work with students throughout this process, students seeking accommodations should be aware that it is their responsibility to: Supply supporting documentation to SAS to determine appropriate services and accommodations. Request accommodations from SAS with sufficient notice. Every effort will be made regardless of time constraints, but since implementing accommodations often involves several offices across campus there are deadlines for priority consideration for certain supports. Confirm the adequacy of accommodations as soon as possible and notify SAS whenever the student encounters unsatisfactory conditions. Obtain syllabi and lists of course materials for reproduction in alternate formats (as needed). Adhere to deadlines established by SAS, Residential Life, faculty, the Registrar, etc. Pursue financial aid or state vocational rehabilitation support for things above and beyond accommodations, such as personal equipment needs. Notify SAS of pre-registered classes for the following semester so accessible space can be arranged (if necessary) Related Files 1-Information and Release Form.pdf Documentation Guidelines.pdf Sample Messages to Faculty Home Getting Around Campus Registration Forms and Registration Materials SAS Student Handbook Accommodations & Services Academic Accommodation Letter Notifications Graduate Student FAQ Faculty Report an Accessibility or Accommodation Concern Access or Accommodation Concerns Appeals Accessibility/Awareness Resources Emergency Planning Event Accessibility Financial Assistance for Evaluations or Coaching Library SAS Rooms Scheduling Support Groups & Events School of Professional Studies (SPS) Programs Print this Page Share this Page Student Accessibility Services Brown University Box Box P Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-9588 Fax 401-863-1444 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Web Links WebServices BrownSites Demo BrownSites Documentation Special Links Your Custom Links PAUR Media Relations Web Style Guide