Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety Patient Care Coronavirus (COVID-19) Safety Due to COVID-19 safety protocol, we DO NOT accept walk-in emergencies. However, CDM is open for dental care. Learn how we are keeping our patients and employees safe on our Coronavirus (COVID-19) Safety page. To schedule an emergency appointment, please call number below: (212) 305-6100 Learn how vaccines work to protect you and your loved ones in this short video. Choose the Dental Service or Location That’s Right for You Explore Your Options Explore Your Options View Our Locations View Our Locations Your oral health is intimately connected to your overall health, and at the College of Dental Medicine health is our first priority. Whether you need a routine cleaning or a more complex surgical procedure, you'll find our dentists and specialists all working together to provide you with state-of-the-art, comprehensive dental care. We have several different settings and locations for you to choose from so that you can find the practice that best fits you or your family. ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Choose our faculty practice for state-of-the-art, expert care provided by world-renowned faculty at the College of Dental Medicine. Our dentists work together to provide a full range of services in several locations throughout Manhattan. Faculty Practice Faculty Practice Teaching Clinics At our Teaching Clinics, you will receive a full range of high quality, affordable care provided by dental students and residents under the close supervision of experienced faculty. Learn More About Teaching Clinics Learn More About Teaching Clinics Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top