Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Medical Services Directory Medical Services Directory Yvette Rhea-Burg Yvette Rhea-Burg joined Columbia Health in 1999. She is a scheduling coordinator at Medical Services. In 2019 she completed her Masters degree in Human Resource Management. When she is not at work she enjoys traveling the world, kick boxing, yoga and testing out new vegan recipes. Yonnette S. Douglas Yonette Douglas joined Columbia Health in 2012. Tonia E. Lesesne Tonia Lesesne joined Columbia Health in 1991. Theresa E Maldonado Tehmina M. Kazmi Dr. Kazmi joined Columbia University in 2020. She is a board-certified Family Physician and Assistant Clinical Professor of Medicine in the Center for Family and Community Medicine, Columbia University. Prior to joining Columbia University, Dr. Kazmi was Medical Director with New York University Abu Dhabi. She has extensive global experience and is committed to providing the highest level of health care in culturally diverse and college health populations. Tania I. Holguin Tania Holguin is a health services assistant at Medical Services. Tahshann S. Richards Tahshann Richards, DO, MPH, is a Board-certified Family Physician with a special interest in reproductive health, behavioral health, and osteopathic manipulative medicine. Dr. Richards joined Columbia Health in 2015. She received her medical degree from UMDNJ School of Osteopathic Medicine and completed her Family Medicine residency training at St. Barnabas Hospital. She later served as the Family Medicine Residency Associate Director and as a staff physician in both the Adolescent & Family Medicine Departments. Holding a Master’s Degree in Public Health from The George Washington University and through securing a Teen Pregnancy Prevention grant from the NYC Department of Health, Dr. Richards assisted in developing the Teen Health Center as well as creating youth development programs during her tenure at the Union Community Health Center, Bronx NY. Dr. Richards has served as the Clinical Care Team Leader of the Riverside Practice Team at Columbia Health for the past 2 years. She is the current President of the Empire State Medical Association. Dr. Richards remains committed to improving the overall health of the Columbia University community as well as the health of those living in underserved communities. She enjoys spending time with her family and 14 year old son. Siobhan Southern Siobhan joined Columbia Health in 2020, after working for twenty-four years in critical and acute care. She was born and raised in Texas. Serafina Domanico Roseann Neuberg Roseann Neuberg joined Columbia Health in 2007. She began her career in women's health, working at several hospitals, two birthing centers, as well as Planned Parenthood. She transitioned to student health, where she worked at the Fordham University Health Service for 12 years. She enjoys the diversity of student health, and focuses on education and prevention as integral parts of treatment. Rosagna A. Rubiano Roosevelt McCall Robert G. Bernales Dr. Robert Bernales joined Columbia Health in 2020. He is a board-certified physician specializing in primary care and preventive medicine and is also trained in osteopathic manipulative medicine. Prior to Columbia Health, Dr. Bernales practiced as an attending physician with the Long Island FQHC in several locations throughout Nassau County, New York. He completed his residency training at Nassau University Medical Center, a Northwell Health affiliate. After working in public health and pharmaceutical market research, Dr. Bernales turned his attention to a career in medicine. He received his medical degree from the New York College of Osteopathic Medicine, a master's degree in public health from Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, and his undergraduate degree from the Johns Hopkins University. Dr. Bernales is a native of Syracuse, New York and an alumnus of Christian Brothers Academy. In his spare time he enjoys family, travel, and community service. Richard O'Keefe Dr. Rick O’Keefe joined Columbia Health in 2004. Prior to Columbia, Rick worked in academic family medicine with a focus on increasing the quality and access to care for underserved communities in urban areas. O’Keefe developed programs that care for marginalized and LGBT adolescents in school-based and street settings. As part of Columbia Health, Rick is a member of the men's health team, serves as medical advisor for GHAP (Gay Health Advocacy Project) and facilitates the Integrative Medicine Workgroup. He earned an M.A. in Social and Organizational Psychology from Teachers College, Columbia University in 2015. Ramona Lanzo Ramona Lanzo joined Columbia Health in 1994. Prior to Columbia, Ramona worked as a laboratory technologist in various medical facilities and hospitals. She has been in the laboratory services field since 1985. Ramona attended Bronx Community College, where she majored in medical laboratory technology, and Lehman College with a concentration health services administration. Naomi Velazquez Naomi Velasquez is a Health Services Assistant at Columbia Health. Myriam Marques Myriam Marques joined Columbia Health-Medical Services in August 2020 as Assistant Nurse Manager. Prior to Columbia she was the Campus Health Nurse and Wellness Coordinator at Manhattan School of Music. Her professional background includes more than 30 years as a community and public health nurse in the USA, Brazil and Belgium. She had developed extensive clinical Nursing expertise in primary care settings and had served diverse populations in New York City: immigrants of all backgrounds, youth, women, schoolchildren, LGBTQ + community, adults and performing artists. Myriam’s professional interests include the organization of health services, College Health, Integrative Nursing, Sexual & Reproductive Health, Wellness and Health Education. Growing up in Brazil, she received both her Bachelor’s and Master’s in Science of Nursing at the Federal University of Minas Gerais. She also received a Master’s in Public Health from the Universite Libre de Bruxelles in Belgium. Besides being a nurse Myriam volunteer for human rights, access to healthcare and environmental protection social organizations. Monica L. Kunkel Monica Kunkel joined the Columbia Health team in 2018, after serving as Director of Nursing at Brown University Health Services for 19 years. She is excited to live and work in New York City, and to be able to spend time with her grandson Arlo. Mary E. O'Brien Dr. Mary O'Brien joined Columbia Health in 1993. Prior to Columbia, Mary worked as the associate director of the emergency room at St. Luke's Hospital. Mary Anne Segal Mary Anne Segal joined Columbia Health October 2019. Prior to coming to work at Columbia University, Mary Anne was a school nurse at Lighthouse Guild School for 15 years providing nursing care for students aged 5-21 with vision impairments and multiple disabilities. She has also had a 20-year professional relationship at the Elizabeth Seton Pediatric Center providing nursing care to a medically complex population. Mary Anne is a life-long New York City resident and enjoys the vibrant energy of the city. Marva Blair Martine Duplan Martine Duplan joined Columbia Health in 2017. Marcia M. Sutherland Marcia Sutherland is a medical assistant at Columbia Health Medical Services. Marcel Pierre-Louis Marcel Pierre-Louis joined Columbia Health in 2020 after serving as a General Staff Nurse for Respiratory Care and the Assistant Nurse Manager for Orthopedics at Westchester Medical Center since 2017. Prior to his Nursing career, Marcel worked for Health based non-profits in New York City and Los Angeles. He will be receiving his Master's of Healthcare Administration from Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health in December 2021. Linda L. Jordan Dr. Linda Jordan officially joined Columbia Health Medical Services in May of 2019 when an opportunity to work in the Morningside Practice Group turned into a permanent opportunity to work in Student Health. She has been practicing in primary care for over 19 years serving often in diverse populations with limited access to medical care. Upon completion of medical school at SUNY Downstate in 2000, she went on to residency at Cabrini Hospital in New York City and then stayed on to teach incoming residents until the hospital's closure in 2009. Prior to joining the staff at Columbia Health Dr Jordan functioned as a Locum Tenens physician which took her to places like Buffalo General Hospital where she worked as an inpatient hospitalist to a remote area of the Catskills Mountain Region where she ran the medical clinic affiliated with UHS Delaware Valley Hospital. La’Tisa White La’Tisa comes to Columbia Health from Mount Sinai Doctors Performing Arts clinic where she was Senior Medical Assistant/Patient Coordinator. She has also worked at the NYU Vascular and Vein Center, as well as St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital doctors offices. Laura Maudene Nelson Laura Maudene Nelson is a nutritionist and instructor at the Columbia University Institute of Human Nutrition and teaches graduate nutrition, medical, dental, nursing, and public health students. She has been active with the American Diabetes Association, where she serves on the national board of directors, and the American Heart Association, where she previously served on the board of directors of the New York City Affiliate, the Advisory Council, Heart-at-Work, Nutrition Counseling Workshop Planning Committee, and as a member of the Nutrition Committee. She has also served on the editorial board for RN Magazine. Maudene volunteers for the American Diabetes Association making public presentations and reaching out to elected officials to advocate for people with diabetes. She also coordinates opportunities for work site and community nutrition projects. Best nutrition advice: Eat mostly foods that grow from roots not feet, and, watch out for shiny food – it may be glazed not polished. Karisma Sita Ajodah Karisma Ajodah joined Medical Services in October 2019. Prior to joining Columbia Health, Karisma worked primarily in the hospital setting, including NYU-Langone Hospital and Mount Sinai-Beth Israel. Karisma is excited to return to her Columbia roots having graduated from the School of Social Work in 2002. Karisma is also certified as a field instructor for social work graduate interns since 2008 and has supervised many students over the years. Besides being a social worker, Karisma is also certified as a meditation teacher and is interested in integrating mindfulness and social work practice. Julie S. Tomback Dr. Tombackwas born and raised in Freehold, NJ. She loves exploring NYC and going to Broadway shows. Jon P Murray Jamie Zhang Jamie Zhang joined Columbia Health in 2017. Grigoriy Grenader Dr. Gregoriy Grenader joined Columbia Health in 2012. Gregoriy earned his B.A. in psychology from CUNY Brooklyn College, graduating with honors. Prior to earning his D.O. from New York College of Osteopathic Medicine, he was a certified emergency medical technician. He completed his post-graduate residency training in family practice at North Shore/Long Island Jewish Plainview Hospital in Long Island, New York. Gregoriy enjoys home improvement, music, and traveling. Dawn McAllister Dr. Dawn McAllister is a Urgent Care Physician at Columbia Health. She studied medicine at the University Of Cincinnati College Of Medicine and then moved to New York to practice at The Family Medicine Residency Program at Montefiore. Afterwards she went to the Family Medicine Residency Program at Columbia University Medical Center in 1997 and taught medical students and residents there for about nine years as an Assistant Professor of Medicine in the Center for Family Medicine. She moved away from the academic setting and worked at Community Health Centers where she could take care of patients regardless of their legal status or ability to pay for their health care. She has one son by birth who is now 16 years old and two by adoption from Ethiopia who are 15 and 10 years old. Dawn says she chose to come back to Columbia University in 2014 at the Student Health Service and truly enjoys with students, both optimizing health and treating health problems. As an androgynous lesbian mom, from a working class background, with African American sons, Dr. McAllister hopes to offer a welcoming and supportive presence in the lives of all the students who come to visit at Columbia Health. Education: M.D., University of Cincinnati B.A., History, University of California, Berkeley Certifications and Licensure: New York State Medical License Board Certified: Diplomat of American Board of Family Medicine Professional Experience: Assistant Professor of Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, Center for Family Medicine Federal Qualified Community Health Centers in New York City and Westchester Montefiore Medical Center, Family Medicine Residency Colby R. Golder Colby Golder has provided nutrition therapy since she received a master’s degree in nutrition from Teachers College at Columbia University in 2009. As part of her clinical training in dietetics, Colby worked at the eating disorder unit of the New York State Psychiatric Institute. She was part of a multidisciplinary team that focused on the research and treatment of eating disorders for in-patient care. Most recently, Colby worked at the prestigious Renfrew Center for eating disorders in New York City. Colby was involved in every level of therapeutic care including the day program, the intensive outpatient program, and individual nutrition counseling. She gained vast experience in nutrition therapy for those struggling with anorexia, bulimia, binge eating disorder, compulsive exercise, and other forms of disordered eating. She routinely conducted weekly group sessions that focused on nutrition education, the management of therapeutic meals, and post-meal support therapy. In addition to her work in Health Services, Colby also works in a private practice focusing on nutrition, eating disorders, and weight management by working with patients to cultivate a healthy relationship with food. Christine Napoleon Christine Napoleon is a medical assistant at Columbia Health, Medical Services. Carolina Santos Carissa A. Borton Carissa joined Columbia Health in 2021. She has worked for 8 years as a nurse, starting at a comprehensive ambulatory care center, followed by a clinical nurse position at Montefiore in Maternal Child Health and Pediatrics. Before beginning her career as a nurse, she spent over a decade as a New York State EMT, an EMT volunteer in Honduras and Guatemala and a public health aide in Rockland County. Brenda Aiken Dr. Brenda Aiken joined Columbia Health in 2000. Brenda served as a physician before being promoted to director of Medical Services in 2012. She is also an assistant professor of clinical medicine at Columbia University Medical Center. Prior to Columbia, she was an assistant professor of medicine at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, as well as an assistant attending physician at the Allen Pavilion. She has worked closely with the faculty and staff of the residency program in social medicine at Montefiore Medical Center. Dr. Aiken has devoted her professional career to the comprehensive study of medical and health-related issues of under-represented communities. Anna M. Combs Anna Combs joined Columbia Health in 1995. Prior to Columbia, Anna was employed with Kelly Temps and had several working assignments in customer service. She is originally from Brooklyn and joined the United States Army after high school. Anna’s interests include indoor and outdoor sports, music, and gardening. Ann Marie Alexander Ann Marie Alexander is a health services assistant at Columbia Health. Andrea G. Andaya Andrea G. Andaya received her BSN from the University of Texas at Austin in 2006. She became a commissioned officer in the Navy Nurse Corps in 2007 and cared for service members and their beneficiaries while stationed in the National Naval Medical Center Bethesda (now Walter Reed National Military Medical Center), Naval Hospital Okinawa (Japan), and Naval Hospital Lemoore (California). She left the Navy in 2017. Alysia Benitez Sort Health Unit Clinical Specialty Role Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Profiles, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilterFilter no photo photo of edit edit Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close