Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Modern Culture and Media Home Black Lives Matter Confronting Anti-Asian Bias and Violence About People Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Courses Production Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Events 2020-2021 Past Events MCM News Print this Page Share this Page Modern Culture and Media Brown University Box 1957 155 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2853 Fax 401-863-2158 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Modern Culture and Media Alumni Alumni Alumni & Alumni Eevnts Art-Semiotics | Literature and Society | Modern Culture and Media| MCM Track 1 and II | MCM-German | MCM-Italian | Semiotics| Semiotics-French If you are an Art-Semiotics, Literature and Society, Modern Culture and Media, Semiotics or Semiotics- French alum and would like to be listed on our webpage please email [email protected]. If your listing is out of date, please send us your updated bio. We are thrilled to introduce you to some of the students from the MCM class of 2021. They're packing up and leaving Providence and their home towns and moving out across the country and the world—and they're looking for work! Maybe you can connect....Class of 2021 Class of 2020 Class of 2019 Class of 2018 Class of 2017 Class of 2016 Class of 2015 Class of 2014 Class of 2013 Alumni Name Bio Adams, Akin 'A.K.' (1991) MCM Multi-variate Artist, Musician, Producer and Writer, Founder of NYC Illbient pioneers BYZAR, the Howard University GADGET Center (DC), DC’s National Studios Project, and consulting firm XXICR. Advised independent & International film projects, creative investment strategies and real estate developments. Exhibits include Venice Biennale (with Mariko Mori) , Kitchen (NYC), The Knitting Factory, Artomatic (DC). Currently consulting, executive producing, writing #haikualert, co-producing radio show “Phantom Dancehall” with DJ Spooky, doing R&D with a high-resolution audio company, creating photography & installation art projects, teaching sound system design and developing the Ace Kyngston Experiment, a dadaist multimedia exploration. website: xxicr.com Adams, Jeremy (2004) MCM English teacher and freelance music journalist for RollingStone.com, Venus Zine, The Boston Globe, The Boston Phoenix, Las Vegas Weekly, etc. website Ali, Anastasia (2005) MCM Producer, HazraH Entertainment. Prior work includes the BET web series, "BUPPIES," and the TV sitcom "Love That Girl" on TV One www.hazrahentertainment.com website Allison, Tanine (2001) MCM Assistant Professor of Film and Media Studies at Emory University website Allyn, David (1991) Literature and Society CEO of Oliver Scholars. The Oliver Scholars Program identifies and engages extraordinary New York City students of African and Latino descent and prepares them for success at leading independent high schools and prestigious colleges. David is the author of four books and has written for the New York Times Magazine, the Washington Post, the Chicago Tribune and other publications. Amer, Robin (2004) Art-Semiotics Artist and radio producer based in Chicago. Prior work included producer for the public radio show Open Source in Boston and an artist-in-residence at AS220 in Providence. website Anderson, Jacob (2018) MCM Second concentration in Economics, one year as Programming head and one as Managing Director of Ivy Film Festival Anderson, Joshua (2002) Art-Semiotics MFA, Director, American Film Institute Anderson, Kelly (1988) MCM Award-winning independent producer and director of documentary and narrative films/videos. Most recent production is the award-winning documentary Every Mother’s Son .. website Bach, Nancy (1988) Semiotics Student Cantor, The Brooklyn Heights Synagogue Balestrery, Jean (1991) MCM PhD Candidate, Joint Doctoral Program in Social Work and Anthropology, University of Michigan. Ball, Edward (1982) Semiotics Noted columnist and author of the 1998 National Book Award-winning Slaves in the Family Barnett, Fiona (2001) MCM Ph.D. candidate, Literature and Women's Studies, Duke University Barnstone, Aliki (1980) Semiotics Aliki Barnstone is a poet, translator, critic, editor, and visual artist. She is the author of eight books of poetry, the most recent of which include: Dear God Dear, Dr. Heartbreak: New and Selected Poems (Sheep Meadow, 2009), Bright Body (White Pine, 2011), and Dwelling (Sheep Meadow, 2016). She translated of The Collected Poems of C.P. Cavafy (W.W. Norton, 2006). Her first book of poems, The Real Tin Flower (Crowell-Collier, 1968), was published when she was 12 years old, with a forward by Anne Sexton. In 2014, Carnegie-Mellon University Press reissued her book, Madly in Love, as a Carnegie-Mellon Classic Contemporary, a series dedicated to reprinting the work of the America’s most important poets. She edited A Book of Women Poets from Antiquity to Now (Schocken, 1980; 2nd edition, 1992), which remains the most comprehensive anthology of international poetry in English, and the Shambhala Anthology of Women’s Spiritual Poetry (Shambhala, 2002). Her literary critical work includes the introduction and readers’ notes for H.D.’s Trilogy, co-editing The Calvinist Roots of the Modern Era, and her study, Changing Rapture:The Development of Emily Dickinson’s Poetry (University Press of New England, 2007). Among her awards are a Senior Fulbright Fellowship in Greece, the Silver Pen Award from the Nevada Writers Hall of Fame, a Pennsylvania Council on the Arts Fellowship in Poetry, and residencies at the Anderson Center and the Virginia Center for the Creative Arts. She is Professor of English at the University of Missouri and serves as poet laureate of Missouri. Baron, Jaimie (2000) Art-Semiotics Ph.D. candidate, Critical Studies, Department of Film, Television, and Digital Media, UCLA Baron, Rebecca (1991) Art-Semiotics Faculty member, CalArts Program in Film. Award-winning experimental and documentary filmmaker Okay Bye-Bye was included in the 2000 Whitney Biennial. Recipient of 2002 Guggenheim Fellowship. Barreda, Atilio (2012) MCM Working with New York-based Mind's Eye Production, co-run by Deirdre Fishel a Semiotics alum. Mind's Eye is preparing to launch theboygame.org an interactive educational resource focused on bullying. Bebinger, Martha Art-Semiotics Radio reporter and producer at WRNI and WBUR for 13 years. She has won the National Headliners Award, the National Education Writers Association prize as well as numerous awards from the Associated Press, the Public Radio News Directors Incorporated and the Radio-Television News Directors Association. Before moving to radio Ms. Bebinger edited documentary and independent films. Bender, Clark (1987) Semiotics Currently living in Chicago and working as the Director of Digital Video for the Chicago Tribune. [email protected] Benjamin Stern, Sam (1999) Art- Semiotics author of "American Gangbang: A Love Story" (Gallery Books, 2011) website Bory, Arturo (2017) MCM Innovator, Creative, Enthusiast Bramble, Victor (2017) MCM Graduated Brown with a double concentration in Ethnic Studies and Modern Culture and Media. I am currently a Ph.D. student in the department of American Studies at the University of Maryland studying the history of digital media technologies, identity construction, and governance. Breedon,Barbara (1982) Semiotics M.Ed., Educational Technology, Kent State University. Community Access televison: oral histories; teaching production and editing in Hudson, Ohio. Brough, Melissa (2002) MCM Doctoral Candidate, Annenberg School for Communication & Journalism, USC. 2010-2011 Fullbright grantee to Columbia. She works in the fields of communication for social change, participatory media, visual and new media cultures and social movements. She has collaborated with youth and community media projects including Mobile Voices (www.vozmob.net), Listen UP! (www.listenup.org) and the Chiapas Media Project (www.chiapasmediaproject.org). She received her B.A. in Development Studies and MCM, Brown University. Brown, Joshua (1992) Literature and Society MFA, Film, NYU. Award-winning filmmaker, editor, director. website Brown, Margaret (1984) MCM Documentary filmmaker. Critically acclaimed documentary, The Order of the Myths, explores the role played by tradition in the segregation of Mardi Gras festivities in Mobile, Alabama. website Buckhouse, James Media artist. 2002 Whitney Biennial. Notable digital artists, based on his works for the computer screensaver and PDA. Butler, Jeremy (1976) Professor of Telecommunication and Film, University of Alabama. Founder screensite.org, a resource for film/tv students/teachers. Author, Television: Critical Methods and Applications (Routledge, 2006) website Butterworth, Nicholas Founder, President and CEO of Diversion Media. Former President and CEO of The MTVi Group, President & CEO of SonicNet, Inc., and Executive Director of Rock the Vote Caizzi, Carolyn (2002) Art-Semiotics Carolyn is a librarian and artist, living and working in New Haven, CT. website Caperton, John (1991) Art-Semiotics Currently teaching at the Academy of Art University's School of Motion Pictures and Television. Carson, Purcell (1993) Literature & Society New York-based documentary editor documentary specialist, Woodrow Wilson School, Princeton University Carvalho, Monica (2010) MCM, Track I Monica Carvalho '10 started at NBCUniversal in April 2016 as an Associate on the Product Team within Digital Distribution. Her team is responsible for scheduling the digital release, across various platforms, of film and TV content owned by NBCU and its subsidiaries. Monica's role will be to support her team members in the tracking of Universal and competitive titles, creation of national promotions and sales initiatives, and management of metadata for clients and retailers. Cato, Kristin (1991) Semiotics MFA, Cinema Production, SF State University Mediamaker, musician, sound designer. Creator of The Numbers Project, performed poetry with film projections about whole numbers, their shapes, associations, spiritual meanings and cultural roles. Chemla, Alexandra (2009) MCM Founder and CEO of ArtBinder. ArtBinder is a comprehensive iPad solution for art galleries. It turns the iPad into an elegant presentation tool that enhances client meetings and simplifies the lives of dealers and archivists. Chen, Helen, (1985) Literature and Society AB 1985, MD 1989 Cherry, Judd (2001) Art-Semiotics I've been in LA since graduation. In that time, I've worked with Laura Ziskin and Alvin Sargent writing on Spider-Man 2. I spent 4 years shadowing director Shawn Levy and produced The Pink Panther, Cheaper by the Dozen 1 & 2, and Night at the Museum with him. I also worked with Ben Stiller on Tropic Thunder and worked in the writer's room on Bruno. About a year ago, my writing partner and I formed our production company Cherry / Adams Entertainment. We have been building a slate of projects that we're writing and/or producing. Expect to see hopefully several of them next year. Chestna(Danison), Tamara (2002) MCM A writer and producer for film and television, I've worked in Los Angeles as an assistant and then development executive for the last 13 years. Over the years, I've been an employee of Ricochet Entertainment, UTA, Imagine Entertainment, and Laurence Mark Productions. I'm currently serving as an Executive Producer on the digital TV series "The Art of More" on Crackle. Clarke, Chandler (2007) Art-Semiotics I'm a NYC resident and work at a Sports Production Company called Jalbert Productions International. My primary role is to produce on location and act as a post production supervisor in house. Beyond my creative responsibilities, I handle our Tough Mudder Account, assist with pitches to potential clients, help maintain various client relationships (Red Bull, Maverik, Surefoot), manage social media, organize shoot logistics, manage client budgets and agreements, write script, and more. Jalbert Productions creates documentaries, TV series and programs, commercials, and online videos. website Linked in Clements, Dawn (1986) Semiotics Artist. exhibits at Pierogi Gallery, Brooklyn, NY (website) and Acme, Los Angeles. Guest faculty at RISD and CalArts. 2010 Whitney Biennial. website Cohen, Rebecca Richman (2002) Art-Semiotics J.D., Harvard. Producer and Director. War Don Don (2010), award-winning documentary on a war crimes trial in Sierra Leone. 2008 taught a winter session course at RISD called “Human Rights, Mass Atrocity, and Documentary Film” and also a 2009 course at American University's Human Right’s Institute called “Criminal Justice Stories in Film.” website Collier, Ben (2002) Art-Semiotics Global Brand Manager at American Express and Freelance Photojournalist at World Picture News. website Coonley, Ben (1998) Art-Semiotics Electronic media artist. Associate Professor of Film and Electronic Arts, Bard College. website Corbett, John (1986) Semiotics Faculty member, Art History, Theory and Criticism, School of the Art Institute of Chicago. Author of Extended Play: Sounding Off from John Cage to Dr. Funkenstein (Duke UP, 1994) Cornwall, Debi (1995) MCM photographer and civil rights lawyer based in Brooklyn, NY. Website Cox, Christoph (1987) Semiotics Professor of Philosophy, Hampshire College. Also on the faculty at the Center for Curatorial Studies, Bard College. Author of Nietzsche: Naturalism and Interpretation (U California Press, 1999) and co-editor of Audio Culture: Readings in Modern Music (Continuum, 2004). Recipient of 2009Arts Writers Grant from Creative Capital/Warhol Foundation. website Crean, Melanie (1990) Art-Semiotics Assistant Professor from the MFA Design and Technology Program at Parsons. She recently created a mobile cinema project entitled Memories of the Future, working with a group of spoken word artists in Hunts Point section of the South Bronx, to tell the story of their overcoming issues such as environmental discrimination and over-incarceration which seem to be built into the landscape of their surroundings. Davis, Laura (1999) Art-Semiotics Independent filmmaker (featured on ABC network news as one of a rising generation of digital filmmakers) Deasy, Maria (1988) Literature and Society I am an actress, singer and writer living and working in New York City, currently rehearsing "Something Cloudy, Something Clear" by Tennessee Williams to be performed in New York and at the Williams Festival in Provincetown, MA during the fall. I also co-star in "Contact Zone," a short film which is currently winning awards on the festival circuit. I am a senior paralegal at the law firm, Jones Day, and I specialize in domestic and cross-border mergers and acquisitions/ capital markets. My work has been in public and private equity transactions, including tender offers, private placements, and recapitalizations, as well as the banking and finance components of transactional work. website Despont, Louise (2006) Art-Semiotics Artist and filmmaker. 2009-2010 - Fulbright Research Fellowship, India Dimendberg, Edward Semiotics Professor of Humanities at the University of California, Irvine, has received fellowships from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation and the Getty Research Institute. He will be in residence at the Getty during the 2018-19 academic year, where he will be researching and writing his next book, "The Los Angeles Project: Architectural and Urban Theories of the City of Exception." Donnelly, Fritz (1998) Art-Semiotics Filmmaker, performance artist. website Donovan, Diana (1990) Literature and Society Freelance writer and digital marketing consultant based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Dyer, Maria (2006) Art-Semiotics Artist and filmmaker Eaton, Chris (2006) MCM Activist and digital media specialist. Prior work with Greenpeace and as an independent consultant. http://www.chriseaton.net Ehrenberg, Jonathan (1997) Art-Semiotics Jonathan Ehrenberg’s videos feature surreal narratives, stylized characters, and sets that resemble three-dimensional, habitable paintings. He received a BA from Brown University and an MFA from Yale. His work has been included in exhibitions at venues including MoMA PS1, New York, LAXART, Los Angeles, David Castillo, Miami, Futura Center, Prague, and Espacio Minimo, Madrid. He's represented by Nicelle Beauchene Gallery in New York. He teaches Visual Art at Brown University and lives in New York City. website Ellsworth, Barry Film producer (primarily in south America). Co-founder of Apparatus Productions Erhart, Julia (1986) Semiotics Associate Professor of Screen and Media, at Flinders University, in Adelaide, Australia website Evans, Rodney (1993) MCM Writer/director/producer received The Independent Feature Project’s Gordon Parks Award for Screenwriting for his screenplay of Brother to Brother. Grants from The Jerome Foundation and The Rockefeller Foundation towards the writing and production of the film. Brother to Brother premiered at the 2004 Sundance Film Festival where it won the Special Jury Prize for passion in filmmaking. Eze, Nkechi Christine (2012) MCM Marketing Associate, Marketing Development Program Class of 2012, EMC Corporation, MA. Fancher, Lisa (1977) Semiotics Attended law school at the University of Texas. Since 1983, been practing law in Austin Texas and primarily doing business litigation. My Brown education and the analytical skills that i developed have been very useful in my law practice. I also play music professionally. website Fanuele, Matt (1994) Art-Semiotics Composer, sound designer, New York Farrington,Christopher (2000) Art-Semiotics Director. MFA from the USC School of Cinematic Arts in 2009. Thesis film "Signal," won Alfred P. Sloan Foundation grant and best director at the USC First Look Film Fest. Personal website is http://www.ctfarrington.com/ "Signal" website is http://www.signalshort.com/ Feldman, Steven (1993) Semiotics Creator, Androgyne Online Fine, Russell (1985) Semiotics Prominent cinematographer, working in both film and TV. Credits include The Wire, White Collar, Crash, The Real World, Everyday People, and dozens of other projects. Fishel, Deidre (1984) Semiotics Deirdre Fishel writes/directs docs and dramas. Her dramatic feature Risk premiered in competition at Sundance, the Sundance channel and was broadcast on 35 channels worldwide. Her feature doc Still Doing It premiered at SXSW and was broadcast in 15 countries. Her company, Mind's Eye Productions produces cutting edge media, primarily for and about teens. She directed a web doc, Suicide on Campus. with the New York Times Magazine and her teen abuse video won a Cine Golden Eagle. Her last project The Boy Game explores bullying through the lens of hyper masculine norms. www.mindseyeprods.com Fisher, Emily Film and video producer of documentaries for public television Fix, Madeline (1994) Art-Semiotics New York-based designer Foglia, Lucas (2005) Art-Semiotics Documentary and portrait photographer, collaborating with people and organizations across the country and using photography to promote positive change. website Frank, Joey (2005) Art-Semiotics Documentary filmmaker. Assistant director of Manda Bala, winner of Grand Jury Prize at Sundance Film Festival. website Frazier, Dan (1994) Literature and Society Pop secret/no depression Friedman, Barry (1985) Semiotics Studio Director for Gates Studio, Worked in LA for 10 years at A+M Records, Motown and New Line Cinema. www.gatestudio.com Fusco, Coco (1982) Semiotics New York based interdisciplinary artist. Performed, lectured, exhibited and curated throughout North and South America, Europe, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, Korea and Japan. Author English is Broken Here (The New Press,1995), The Bodies That Were Not Ours and Other Writings (Routledge/Iniva, 2001) and the editor of Corpus Delecti: Performance Art of the Americas (Routledge, 1999). Fusco is a recipient of a 2003 Herb Alpert Award in the Arts for her work as a performance artist. Galloway, Alex (1996) MCM Associate Professor of Culture and Communication, NYU. Founding member of software collective RSG and creator of the data surveillance engine Carnivore. Author of Protocol: How Control Exists After Decentralization (MIT, 2004), Gaming Essays on Algorithmic Culture (Minnesota, 2006), and co-author, with Eugene Thacker, The Exploit: A Theory of Networks (Minnesota, 2007) website Galloway, Munro (1994) Art-Semiotics New-York based painter. Represented by Murrayguy Gallery. MFA candidate at Bard College. Garbus, Liz (1992) Semiotics One of America’s most celebrated young voices in documentary filmmaking. She is the co-founder of New York City’s Moxie Firecracker Films and has created award-winning documentaries for Lifetime, A&E, Showtime, HBO, MTV, Disney, Discovery Channel Gates (Senft), Valerie (1988) Semiotics Emmy award winning Art Director, Photographer and Director. Creative Director at Boston-based design firm Gates Studio. www.gatestudio.com Gerdes, Benj (2003) MCM Film and video artist working at the intersection of art and activism. Member of 16 Beaver Group. Previously Visiting Artist, Department of Cinema, SUNY Binghamton. Now teaching video at The Cooper Union School of Art. Glass, Ira (1982) Creator and director, This American Life. Bio Goldberg, Brian (1989) Art-Semiotics Senior Critic and Lecturer, Department of Architecture, Rhode Island School of Design. Good, Paul (1989) MCM President & CEO PhotoFixitiPro®, Commercial Photographer & Cinematographer. Goodman, Nate (1984) Semiotics Currently Director of Photography of Falling Skies, for Dreamworks/TNT, shooting through February. The season airs on TNT Summer 2012. Director of photography for NBC’s Heroesand Love Bites and BBC/STARZ's Torchwood. Contact him at: [email protected] website & blog Gordon, Bonnie (1990) Literature and Society Musicology Professor at the University of Virginia. Author of Monteverdi's Unruly Women and co-editor of The Courtesans' Arts. UV a webpage and Blog Goss, Jacqueline (1989) Literature and Society Associate Professor of Film and Electronic Arts, Bard College. video and web-based artist. Recipient of numerous awards, including Alpert Award in the Arts (2007), DAAD Fellowship (2005), Creative Capital Award (2005). website Greenfield Sanders, Liliana (2003) Art-Semiotics Filmmaker. Adelaide (2009) won a National Board of Review Student Grant Award, a SAG/Indie Audience Award at the DGA Los Angeles. Recipient of the 2007 Lifetime Network Student Filmmaker Award. website Greenwald, Josh (2004) Art-Semiotics Running a boutique web design and technology consulting firm (Feel free to contact if you need website work) as well as leading entrepreneurial projects - always working to launch the next big thing." email Groff, Matt (2003) Art-Semiotics documentary filmmaker whose first feature U.N. Me won Best Documentary at the 2010 New Hampshire Film Festival Gschwandtner, Sabrina (2000) Art-Semiotics NY-based artist. MFA candidate at Bard. Founder of artist’s publication called KnitKnit website Gund (Saalfield), Catherine (1988) Art-Semiotics Catherine Gund, the founder of Aubin Pictures, is an Emmy-nominated producer, director, writer, and activist. Her media work focuses on strategic and sustainable social transformation, arts and culture, HIV/AIDS and reproductive health, and the environment. Her films - which include A Moving Body, Amor Puro y Duro, Born to Fly, What's On Your Plate?, A Touch of Greatness, Motherland Afghanistan, Making Grace, On Hostile Ground, and Hallelujah! - have screened around the world in festivals, theaters, museums, and schools; on PBS, Discovery's Planet Green, and the Sundance Channel. http://www.aubinpictures.com https://www.aubinpictures.com/pre-1996/ Haendel, Karl (1998) Art-Semiotics Artist. Solo exhibitions at Museum of Contemporary Art Los Angeles, Lever House, New York, Susanne Vielmetter Projects, Los Angeles, Harris Lieberman, New York. Group exhibitions at MOMA, Art Institute of Chicago Haffenreffer, Mark Media artist. MFA, CalArts Hall, Alex (1993) Art-Semiotics Director, editor, and producer who has been working in film and television since 1994. He most recently worked on the first season of True Detective for HBO. He had been directing and editing the television series "Treme." Other recent editorial projects include Blue Bloods for CBS and the feature film "The Messenger," directed by Oren Moverman (2009 Sundance Film Festival, 2009 Berlin Film Festival) Hanhardt, Christina B. (1994) Semiotics Associate Professor in the Department of American Studies at the University of Maryland, College Park. website Harlam, Claire (2008) Art-Semiotics Filmmaker. Joint MBA/MFA, NYU Tisch and Stern. Claire is currently working on her MFA thesis and is also a fellow of the Cinematic Arts and Commerce Research Institute, a Think Tank that NYU Tisch is launching in Fall 2011. Claire also plays in the band EFFI BRIEST. Harper, Rachel (1994) MCM Harper, Rachel (1994) MCM. LA-based writer. Author of the novels This Side of Providence(2016) and Brass Ankle Blues (2006). Recently adapted National Book Award-winning author Jacqueline Woodson’s novel Hush for television with filmmaker Sam Zalutsky. Currently adapting award-winning author Rebecca Walker’s memoir Black, White & Jewishfor television, while developing several other TV/film projects. On the faculty at Spalding University’s low-residency MFA in Writing Program. http://rachelmharper.com. Harrison, Patrick (2008) MCM Investigates police misconduct for the New York City Civilian Complaint Review Board. Harrison also writes arts criticism and is a theater director and performer (http://depthcharge.us). Haynes, Todd (1985) Semiotics Internationally acclaimed director. Films include Poison, Safe, Velvet Goldmine, Far from Heaven, I’m Not There. Academy Award nomination for best director, 2003. Hendler, Glenn (1984) Semiotics Associate Professor of English, Fordham University Hessman, Robin (1994) MCM Filmmaker. Former producer of the Soviet version of Sesame Street. Recently she has received accolades for her film My Perestroika, featured at Sundance. Hessman is also the curator and "extraordinary host" of AmFest Moscow Higa, Michelle (2004) Art-Semiotics One of the original organizers of the visionary Chaise as an undergraduate. Now part of Mixtape Club, a digital animation group. website Ho, Yi Ping (2000) MCM Digital media executive at Warner Music Group in NYC. Hoffsten, Eric (1993) MCM After ten years in NYC following graduation, Eric Hoffsten is now a Freeport, Maine-based award-winning graphic designer and art director, specializing in print. Holt, Steven Skov (1982) Cognitive Science (self-identifies as Semiotics-MCM grad) Presently the Distinguished Professor of Industrial Design and Interdisciplinary Design at California College of the Arts; co-author, Blobjects & Beyond: The New Fluidity (2005) Chronicle Books; co-author, Manufractured: The Conspicuous Transformation of Everyday Objects (2008) Chronicle Books; author of 200+ articles and essays emphasizing the cultural interpretation[s] of what we make and why we make it MFA (Product Design Studies) Stanford University (1992) See: my profile on LinkedIn or go to: cca.edu/academics/faculty/sholt Hsu, Matthew (1998.5) MCM MFA USC School of Cinematic Arts. Producer at Fleuron Films. Hubrich, Lars (1998) MCM MFA, Radio/TV/Film, Northwestern University 2002 Independent filmmaker, based in Berlin. Screenplay for "Tahiti Rose" was nominated for the German screenwriting award. Shot and edited a web-based series for Arte this year (http://creative.arte.tv/de/space/From_Sketch/messages/) Imrey, Celia (1987) Art-Semiotics Principal of RAFT Architects, an international design practice based in New York City. www.RAFTarchitects.com Projects include Louvre Lens Museum, Kuwait National Museum, Smithsonian American Art Museum. Adjunct associate professor of Architecture at Barnard College, and NYU. Irwin, Debbie (1979) Semiotics Debbie Irwin got her start in voiceovers nearly a decade ago when she found a new outlet for an old passion: acting. She took her stage skills and transformed them into studio skills. Her work encompasses commercials, eLearning, corporate videos, internet audio, audiobooks, audio tours, medical narrations, product demos and telephone messaging, sometimes in Spanish and Italian. She has traveled the world from her recording booth in NYC, voicing projects for clients like: eBay, CarFax, Jennifer Convertibles, The Smithsonian, Nationwide, SPDR Financial, Ronald McDonald Charity, Einstein Healthcare Network, UConn Health Center, Merz Aesthetics, Wallach, Guardian Insurance and more. Debbie is also the voice of the Statue of Liberty, and voiced the Telly Award winning video for the Orange County Performing Arts Center (OCPAC), now called The Segerstrom Center for the Arts. She's worked on Wall Street, at the Guggenheim Museum and has raised three kids with her husband in NYC. website Jacobson, Nina (1987) Semiotics Film executive and producer, Dreamworks SKG. Former president of the Buena Vista Motion Pictures Group, The Walt Disney Company. One of a handful of women to head a Hollywood film studio since the 1980s. Johnson, Martin (2001) MCM Assistant Professor of Media Studies, The Catholic University of America, Washington, DC. website Johnson, Shirley (2004) MCM Healer, Yoga Teacher, Public Speaker and Writer website Jones, Karen (1997) Art-Semiotics Curator, Exceeding Painting/Expanding Painting at Pratt Institute, NY and Photo Paradigm website Jorgensen, Darren (2002) Art-Semiotics Artist, filmmaker and videographer in Ontario, Canada. website Kafka, Ben (1998) MCM Associate Professor, Department of Media, Culture, Communication, NYU. Member, New York Institute for the Humanities. Candidate, Institute for Psychoanalytic Training and Research (IPA). Author, The Demon of Writing: Powers and Failures of Paperwork (Zone Books, 2012). Editor, Grey Room. Kamps, Louisa (1989) Literature and Society Contributing editor to Elle magazine whose articles have also appeared in The New York Times; The New Yorker; O, The Oprah Magazine; Whole Living; and Food & Wine Katz, Adam (2005) Art-Semiotics Founder of Imprint Projects, a marketing and communications agency that works in partnership with non-profits, businesses and communities. website Kerson Pritzker, Jennie (2000) Art-Semiotics Philadelphia based Interior Designer at Marguerite Rodgers Ltd Kessler, Sarah (2003) Art-Semiotics Writer and a Triple Canopy editor at large. Ph.D. candidate in Comparative Literature at UC Irvine. Khanmohamadi, Shirin A. (1991) Literature and Society Shirin A. Khanmohamadi (B.A. Brown, Literature and Society, '91; Ph.D. Columbia) is an Associate Professor of Comparative and World Literature department at San Francisco State University, where she specializes in comparative medieval European literature. Her first book, In Light of Another´s Word: European Ethnography in the Middle Ages, has just been published with University of Pennsylvania Press: http://www.upenn.edu/pennpress/book/15178.html. Kim, Maxine (1998) Art-Semiotics Photographer currently Living in San Fransisco where she has a professional design business that supports her own ongoing photographic practice. Website 1. Website 2 King, Homay (1994) MCM Associate Professor, Department of History of Art, Bryn Mawr College, author of Lost in Translation: Orientalism, Cinema, and the Enigmatic Signifier (Duke University Press, 2010). website Kissack, Eric (1999) Art-Semiotics Film editor (Role Models, Bruno, Cedar Rapids, Harold & Kumar 3) and aspiring director (fingers crossed). website Klein, Lizzy Jane (2005) MCM Production Design, Art Direction, Visual Research and Support for feature films in Los Angeles, CA. Koplovitz Dutton, Elysa (1989) Art-Semiotics Elysa Koplovitz Dutton (89) - Elysa is a feature film producer and runs the film division of Alloy Entertainment. She began her career as a production executive at MTV Films and later Twentieth Century Fox and HBO Films. Elysa produced Mike Judge’s cult classic Idiocracy and has overseen movies as a production executive including Election, Varsity Blues, Like Mike and many others. Her most recent credits include Everything, Everything, The Sun Is Also A Star, Good Girls Get High, and Work It a dance comedy for Netflix. Kors, Lisa Semiotics MFA from USC. Currently works as a writer/director of traditional and new media in Los Angeles. Her first film, the multi-award winning documentary SHAYNA MAIDELS: ORTHODOX JEWISH TEENAGE GIRLS, premiered at Telluride and went on to play in over 50 international film festivals and aired on PBS. (www.shaynamaidels.com). Her feature film debut, DINNER AND A MOVIE, also won multiple awards and was hailed by critics as “Woody Allen on estrogen.” The film was named by the Village Voice as “One of the Best Films of the Year.” Lisa has also produced over 500 hours of behind-the-scenes content for feature films, most notably Jerry Bruckheimer films. Her specialty is sports and pirates. Kowalski, Steven, Ph.D. (1983) Art-Semiotics Ph.D. in Education and Organizational Creativity from UCLA. President of Creative LicenseTM Consulting. Learning experience designer/consultant specializing in Leading Change and Innovation, Creative Leadership, and Creativity in Business. Also working with Genentech, a San Francsico-based Biotech, providing leadership development programs to Vice-Presidents and Directors. Living in San Francisco, CA since 2004. website 1 - website 2 Kugler, Ann (1990) Art-Semiotics Media, installation and web artist Kulash, Damien (1998) Art-Semiotics Composer, musician. ok go Lalli Music, Carla (1994) Literature and Society spent 10 years working in restaurants (from line cook to general manager) and taught culinary management at the Institute for Culinary Education. In 2009, she made the switch to food journalism. She is currently the features editor at Bon Appétit. Lives with her husband and two sons in Brooklyn, NY. twitter @lallimusic Lantos, John (1977) Semiotics went on to medical school, served in the National Health Service Corps, and completed a fellowship in medical ethics.After 20 years on the faculty at The University of Chicago, he moved to Kansas City to start a pediatric bioethics center at Children’s Mercy Hospital. Much of his work in bioethics focuses on the role of narrative. (see, e.g. http://newsinfo.iu.edu/web/page/normal/18423.html) Lee, Jonathan E. (2011) MCM, Track II Atlanta-based video artist and music producer Lee, Jungmin. (2011) MCM, Track II Ph.D. Student, Film and Visual Studies, Department of Visual and Environmental Studies, Harvard University Lenderking, Eben (1989) Semiotics life not following an expected path, currently in the hotel business in Morocco website Leoncavallo, Ivano (1986) Semiotics Director of Content Creation, VME Media, New York. Accomplished Creative Director and Executive Producer with diverse background in Broadcast, Cable and Digital media. Award-winning broadcast journalist, international brand builder and adaptor of formats. website 1 website 2 Leonnet, Natasha (1995) MCM Senior Digital Intermediate Colorist for feature films with EFILM Leslie, Kate (2000) MCM Clinical social worker, working in a group of psychanalysts from the SF Center for Psychoanalysis, creating a new out-patient treatment center for youth and families. The group is post-Kleinian but with an eye towards Lacan. Mission is to provide affordable, sliding scale psychoanalytic services to the community. Levin, Jessica (1997) MCM NY-based independent film/TV producer. co-producer of HBO series TREME (by THE WIRE creator David Simon), and associate producer on Todd Haynes' HBO mini-series MILDRED PIERCE. Previous feature films have won prizes at festivals such as Sundance, Cannes / Directors Fortnight and Toronto, among others. www.imdb.com/name/nm0505625/ Levine, Jonathan (2000) Art-Semiotics Writer and director of the critically acclaimed film The Wackness (2008), starring Ben Kingsley. website Levy, Sam Director of Photography. Profiled in American Cinematographer and International Cinematographer. Most recently photographed Wendy and Lucy (dir. Kelly Reichardt), one of AFI’s top 10 films of 2008 Lovejoy, Alice (2001) Joint PhD. candidate in Film Studies and Comparative Literature, Yale. Fulbright student (2003-2004) FAMU, Prague film academy. Lutker, Shana (2000) MCM Artist and editor x-tra magazine, Los Angeles. Solo exhibitions at Artists’ Space, New York, CCA Wattis Institute, San Francisco. Group exhibitions include the 2006 and 2008 California Biennials, CCA Wattis Institute, San Francisco and Mass MoCA Lyon, Raphael (1998) Art-Semiotics Artist, Javits scholar, Columbia Univeristy MFA 2012 website 1 - website 2 - website 3 Mader, Asa Filmmaker, video-tv producer. La maladie de la mort Accepted into the Venice Biennale 2003 Marcus, Jon (1995) MCM independent producer/director. Has worked across all media: independent film, network television, web, and interactive art, from Killer Films to ABC TV. Credits include ABC's "Scoundrels," "Party Monster," "Far From Heaven," and "Boys Don't Cry." Marro, Xander (1998) Art-Semiotics Arts activist, filmmaker, media curator and founding member of Dirt Palace, Providence, RI Martin, Cameron (1994) Art-Semiotics Painter. Whitney Biennial 2004 Meerow, Jen (1998) MCM Television writer/producer. website Meltzer, Eve (1993) Assistant Professor of Visual Studies, NYU Meltzer, Julia (1991) Literature and Society & Art-Semiotics Filmmaker and Founding director of Clockshop. Guggenheim Fellow (2009-10) and Fulbright Fellow in Damascus, Syria (2005-6). Lives and works in Los Angeles. Messman, Kevin (2002) MCM Editor of art pieces for Laurie Anderson and Eve Sussman, film for Todd Solondz, and documentaries and animation for PBS and Nickelodeon. Has taught film editing courses at the Edit Center in Manhattan Miller, Daniel (1995) Art-Semiotics Documentarian and founder of Ironbound Films. Produced and directed many critically acclaimed and award-winning documentaries for PBS, including Crucible of Empire and the America Rebuilds trilogy. website Miller, Jon Edward (2005) Art-Semiotics Cinematographer. MFA in Cinematography, USC website Miller, Royal (1988) Semiotics Script writer. website Miller, Steven (1990) Semiotics Associate Professor of English at the University at Buffalo (SUNY). Faculty mentor at the Center for the Study of Psychoanalysis and Culture. Author of War After Death: On Violence and Its Limits (Fordham, 2014). Translator of Jean-Luc Nancy, Hegel: The Restlessness of the Negative (Minnesota, 2003) and Catherine Malabou, The New Wounded: From Neurosis to Brain Damage (Fordham, 2012). website Milutis, Joe MCM Assistant Professor, Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences of Sound Art, University of Washington, Bothell. Writer and media artist, author of Ether: The Nothing That Connects Everything. website Moore, David Chioni (1985) Semiotics-French Professor and chair of International Studies and professor of English at Macalester College. Scholar and teacher of comparative global postcolonial literatures and cultures, with emphases on Afro-planetary networks, post-Soviet comparison, and Langston Hughes. Moritsugu, Jon Independent filmmaker. Shows at MOMA, the Whitney website Morris, Bob (1982) Semiotics Bob Morris, frequent contributor to the New York Times, author of Assisted Loving: True Tales of Double Dating With My Dad; Crispin the Terrible; and co-author with Diahann Carroll of The Legs are the Last To Go. Commentator on All Things Considered. Several plays produced Off-Broadway Motamed, Susan (1989) Semiotics Producer/director and partner at Jumbo Films Murphy, Carrie Television producer Myers, Tracy (1992.5) Art-Semiotics Former documentary film producer/editor. Current VP and Assoc General Counsel at WB Pictures in Features (or sometimes referred to as Theatrical Legal). Navab, Pedram (1996) MCM Pedram Navab is a neurologist and sleep medicine specialist who currently resides in Los Angeles. He also holds a graduate degree in English/Modern Culture & Media and a J.D., having been educated at Stanford and Brown. Without Anesthesia is his debut novel. website Nagle, Patrick (2010) MCM, Track I Patrick Nagle is a Campus Organizer for MASSPIRG, the Massachusetts Public Interest Research Group. Patrick trains students to organize and win campaigns on environmental, transportation, public service, health care, and democracy issues. He can be reached at [email protected]. Niborg Speier, Jonathan (2001) Art-Semiotics Experimental filmmaker, artist, etc., NYC Nierenberg, Ona (1980) Psychoanalyst. Private practice. Clinical psychologist in the AIDS program at Bellevue Hospital. She has published several articles on psychoanalysis and science. Noe, Nicolas (1999) MCM Co-founder and editor-in-chief of the Beirut-based news translations service Mideastwire.com and the editor of the book Voice of Hezbollah: The Statements of Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah (Verso, 2007). Novello, Chris (2011) MCM, Track II paper kettle - instrument building, game deterritorialization, e-writing, and soundmaking website Oppenheim, Lisa (1997) Art-Semiotics Artist in NYC. Recipient of the Rema Hort Mann Visual Arts Grant in 2008 and awarded Illy Art prize in 2007. Oppenheimer, Sarah (1995) Art-Semiotics Artist. http://www.foldingenterprises.com Ospina, Carmen (2001) MCM In charge of digital strategy at Random House Mondadori in Spain (ebooks and apps, new product development, new business models). Pacheco, Reece (2005.5) Art-Semiotics traveled around the world, worked in Hollywood for a year, now working on my 2nd startup tech company in NYC. website Paesani, David (2010) MCM, Track I UCLA School of Law and semi-professional DJ Pagano, Scott (2000) Art-Semiotics Hybrid fine artist and independent creative professional recognized for his high-end, multi-media works. website Pandian, Karthik (2003) Art-Semiotics Artist. Solo exhibitions: Whitney Museum of American Art (2010), Midway Contemporary Art (2010), Richard Telles Fine Art (2009). Harper-Schmidt Fellow in the Department of Visual Arts at the University of Chicago. . website Papazian, Aimee (1998) Art-Semiotics MFA, Bard University Perkins, Margaret Odette (2008) Art-Semiotics Margaret is currently working out of New York as an actress, and as a grant writer for The Ford Foundation in their Arts & Culture division). Perlin, Jenny (1993) Literature and Society Filmmaker. Five College Visiting Artist in Film Studies, Mount Holyoke College website Pope, Lori Ann (1988) Semiotics Conference producer for Alert Global Media Price, Seth (1997) Art Semiotics Artist. Solo show (2009) Museo d’Arte Moderna di Bologna. Group exhibition (2009) Altermodern: Tate Triennial, London. 2002 & 2008 Whitney Biennials website Raffel, Dawn (1979) Semiotics author and editor dawnraffel.com Ratner, Rebbie (1994) MCM MFA, Film, University of Texas at Austin Reichert, Jeff (2000) Art-Semiotics Filmmaker of the feature documentary Gerrymandering. Co-editor of the on-line film publication Reverse Shot. Former independent film distribution exec. Reinkordt,Elisabeth (2005) MCM Senior Media Producer, University of Pennsylvania, Graduate School of Education. Owner/producer, No Coast Films. Reynolds , Rob (1990) Art-Semiotics Visual artist, NYC Richmond, Scott (2001) MCM Assistant Professor of Film and Media Studies in the English Department at Wayne State University, Detroit, MI Rizzo, Thomas (1999) MCM Producer, Nickelodeon Roberts, Emily Friend (2008) Art-Semiotics Associate Producer for Sesame Workshop's Digital Media group. Produced web content for Emmy award-winning literacy series The Electric Company [link: pbskidsgo.org/electriccompany] on PBS KIDS GO! website Rodriguez, Anthony Bayani (2006) MCM Filmmaker, Screenwriter, Producer. Ph.D. in American Studies & Ethnicity from the University of Southern California. Areas of specialization: Creative Writing, Narratology, Semiotics, Philosophy, Film & Media, American history, Critical Ethnic Studies. Rollins, Kent Graphic designer, MFA Harvard Ronan, Christine (2009) MCM working at Universal Pictures in LA, as an assistant for a development executive Root, Ruth (1990) Art-Semiotics Artist based in New York. Her work includes paintings on thin, irregularly shaped pieces of aluminium and small painted paper pieces.  She currently has a solo exhibition at the Andrew Kreps Gallery, NY. She has participated in a number of exhibitions including Abstract Redux at the Danese Gallery in New York, Kosmobiologie at the Bellwether Gallery in Brooklyn, and Son-of-a-Gustonat Clementine Gallery in New York. Rowland, Amy Cohen (1981) Literature and Society Director of Corporate & Foundation Relations, Paper MIll Playhouse. Trustee/Treasurer, Music Empowers Foundation. Rubin, Andrew (1992) Literature & Society Professor Andrew N. Rubin is a Scholar in Residence in English and Comparative Literature at Georgetown University, where he has taught as an Assistant Professor in the Department of English. He has written several books, most recently Archives of Authority: Empire, Culture, and the Cold War, published by Princeton University Press in 2012. Along with Moustafa Bayoumi, he is the co-editor of The Edward Said Reader, and he has written and lectured widely on Edward Said’s writings, most recently in Archives of Authority and in the foreword to Said’sJoseph Conrad and the Fiction of Autobiography. Part of his endeavor to understand the importance of Theodor W. Adorno to Said’s activity as an intellectual, Rubin, who was Said’s last doctoral student and long-time research assistant, has co-edited Adorno: A Critical Reader and written on that subject for journals including The South Atlantic Quarterly. His wider writings have been published in the magazines and newspapers including The New Statesman, The Nation, Alif: Journal of Comparative Poetics, The Journal of Palestine Studies, Arab Studies Quarterly, and Al-Ahram. Rubin’s current manuscript is entitled Exiled in America: José Marti, Hannah Arendt, C. L. R. James, and Edward Said. He lives in Washington, DC. He received his B.A. in Literature and Society from Brown University in 1992. He can be reached at [email protected] For more information click here. Rubin, Ben (1987) Semiotics Media artist based in New York City. He is currently developing a site-specific sculpture called Shakespeare Machine for the Public Theater in New York. He is on the faculty of the Interactive Telecommunications Program at NYU and has previously taught at the Bard MFA program at the Yale School of Art, where he was appointed critic in graphic design in 2004. website Ruggiero, Christian (1998) MCM Chris Ruggiero is a film composer and music producer. Recent film scores include I Am Another You (SXSW Film Festival 2017), Tribal Justice (Santa Barbara International Film Festival 2017, PBS premiere late 2017), Hooligan Sparrow (Sundance Film Festival 2016, currently available on Netflix), and Indian Point (Tribeca Film Festival 2015, currently airing on AXS TV). His original compositions currently appear in over 130 television series including The Voice, Pawn Stars, and American Pickers. Commercial credits include music for brands such as Taco Bell, Coke, HSN, Imodium, Dewars, Coppola Winery, and Liberty Mutual. He records and produces bands and artists from his studio Gold Coast Recorders, lectures on film, sound, and semiotics at the University of Bridgeport, and runs the popular audio-history website Preservation Sound. website Russell, Ben (1998) Art-Semiotics Visiting Assistant Professo, Moving Image, University of Illinois, Chicago. Experimental film/videomaker website Rutherford, Robert (2005.5) MCM website Sabar, Ariel (1993) MCM Winner of the 2008 National Book Critics Circle Award for his debut book, My Father’s Paradise. Former staff writer for theBaltimore Sun, Christian Science Monitor and Providence Journal. Work has appeared in the New York Times, Boston Globe and Washington Monthly. Second book, Heart of the City, published in 2011. Lecturer on creative nonfiction. website Schindler, Kristen (2009) Art-Semiotics "Working at an advertising agency in Morristown, NJ. Young adult cancer survivor advocate - http://www.crushcancerblog.blogspot.com" Schiot, Molly (Dec 2002) Molly Schiot is a filmmaker based in Los Angeles. Website. Schrank, Ben (1991) Literature and Society Novelist: Love Is A Canoe, Sarah Crichton Books/Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2013. President and Publisher: Razorbill, an imprint of Penguin (USA) Schwartz, Joanna (1994) Literature and Society Acting Professor of Law, UCLA School of Law, focusing on civil right litigation and the role of lawsuits in police department decisionmaking. Scranton,Deborah (1984) Semiotics Director. Award-winning film The War Tapes (2006). website Segall, Kevin (1996) MCM A life-long autograph hound and obsessive collector, Kevin Segall is an expert in pop culture and has been featured in Los Angeles Times, Playboy, Wired, Time Magazine, and countless other media outlets. He is the proprietor of CollectorsShangri-La.com. Seigel, Andrea (2001) MCM Author of novels Like The Red Panda (2004), To Feel Stuff(2006), and The Kid Table (2010). Screenwriter of Laggies(2011), currently in development at Anonymous Content. website Semo, Davina Artist, NYC. MFA, Visual Arts, UC San Diego Sessions, Elisha (1996) MCM Senior content producer at BBC, London. London-based author and radio producer website Shapiro, Molly (1990) Semiotics Author of the novel, Point, Click, Love and the short story collection, Eternal City, winner of Willa Cather Fiction Prize. Shield, Andrew D.J. (2007) Ph.D. Student, History, CUNY Graduate Center. Instructor of Global History, CUNY Baruch College. Shlensky, Lincoln (1987) Semiotics I completed my MA and PhD at the University of California, Berkeley, in Comparative Literature. I am currently an associate professor of English at the University of Victoria, in British Columbia, where I specialize in postcolonial Caribbean literature, Jewish studies, and film studies. I am married to Caren Zilber-Shlensky (Brown '94), and we have a son, Lev and a daughter, Talia .website Simpson,Bradford (1995) MCM Head of Appian Way production company and producer for Killer Films in New York. Projects include Kim Peirce’s Boys Don’t Cryand Todd Haynes Far From Heaven Simon, Taryn (1997) Art-Semiotics Taryn Simon is an American Artist. She uses photography, text, and graphic design to investigate the impossibility of absolute understanding. Recent projects include an archive mapping the relationships among chance, blood, and other components of fate (A Living Man Declared Dead and Other Chapters, I–XVIII; 2011) and a catalogue of more than 1,000 objects seized upon entering the United States at John F. Kennedy Airport over a five-day period (Contraband; 2010). Simon’s work has been the subject of monographic exhibitions at institutions including Museum of Modern Art (New York, 2012), Tate Modern (London, 2011), Neue Nationalgalerie (Berlin, 2011), and the Whitney Museum of American Art (New York, 2007). She received a Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship in Photography in 2001 and was represented in the 54th Venice Biennale (2011). Simon’s work is held in many international collections, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art (New York), Centre Pompidou (Paris), and the Museum of Contemporary Art (Los Angeles), and Carneigie International. website Slosky, Justin (2003) Art-Semiotics Lecteur, University of Paris West, MFA, USC School of Cinematic Arts Smith, Zachary (2011) MCM, Track II Currently lives and works in Berlin and is in the process of opening a new space for restaurants, clubs, and other utopian party factors. website Soulé, Robert (1999) Art-Semiotics Ph.D. Computer Science, New York University. Currently a post-doctoral associate at Cornell University in the Computer Science department, doing research on programming languages. website Spivak, Emily (2001) Art-Semiotics Founder, Shop Well With You, helping women with breast cancer website Stern, Arden (2002) Art-Semiotics Arden Stern is completing her Ph.D. in Visual Studies at the University of California, Irvine. Her dissertation, "The Ransom Note Effect," examines eclectic and collaged typography in American graphic design. She has also written on sign painting and graphic design in Zambia, typography in film title sequences, and the contemporary revival of 19th-century typefaces. Stevens, Elizabeth (2004) Art-Semiotics Author of the award-winning novella Wolf Memoirs, which chronicles the breakdown of order for two rival biologists in Yellowstone (writing under the name Gordon Ebenezer Gourd). Teaches at Gotham Writers Workshop. MFA, Fiction, Brooklyn College. website Stokes, Bridget (2004) Art-Semiotics Writer/Director of the feature film Herman & Shelly. Independent film distributor. Sung, Vera Brunner (2001) MFA, Film, California Institute of the Arts (2008). Filmmaker Szeremeta,Dorota (2001) MCM Part of HP Corporate Strategy group. Ex management consultant (A.T. Kearney) and technology consultant. M.A., Georgetown University, M.B.A. UCLA Anderson. Tanenbaum,Leora (1991) MCM Author of Slut! Growing Up Female with a Bad Reputation (HarperPerennial, 2000); Catfight: Rivalries Among Women--From Diets to Dating, From the Boardroom to the Delivery Room (HarperPerennial, 2003); Taking Back God: American Women Rising Up for Religious Equality (Farrar, Straus, & Giroux, 2009); and Bad Shoes & The Women Who Love Them (Seven Stories, 2010). website Tenhoor, Meredith (98.5) Art-Semiotics Architectural and urban historian, critic, and Professor at Pratt Institute’s School of Architecture. Website Thomas, Barbara (1982) Psychologist (PhD 2007) Private Practice: Clinical psychology, Neuropsychology, and Expressive Arts Therapy. WBRU alumni, 1978-1981. Thomas, James (1988) James Thomas is currently seeking fellow Brown filmmakers who who have work to showcase at Brown Fairfield alumni events. Please reach out to him at jamesthomas(AT)onebox.com if you have a film available to showcase. James is the founder of MacMillan Films (www.macmillanfilms.com) which focuses on Western culture and pluralism. His work includes the PBS program Wisdom on Western Philosophy, “Female Power and Democracy” with Jane Fonda, and 11 classical theater productions including the The Bacchae, Lysistrata, Antigone, Prometheus Bound and all three dramas of The Oresteia. Tribe, Kerry (1997) 2010 Whitney Biennial. Film, video and installation artist. MFA, UCLA. website True, Lynn Documentary filmmaker. Editor and co-director of POV’s (PBS) 2008 film Lumo Trustman, Alexandra (2007) MCM Motion Picture Literary Agent, Creative Artists Agency Udris, Michael (1991) MFA, Center for 20th Century Studies, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee. With David Udris, principal designer and owner of amedia. website Vachon, Christine Independent film producer and author. Co-founder of Killer Films. Venell, Andrew (2001) Art-Semiotics San Francisco-based multimedia artist. MFA from San Francisco Art Institute, 2004. website von Furstenberg, Tatiana (1991) Semiotics Tatiana von Furstenberg has always been drawn to, and interested in, the human experience and has therefore always connected to independent designers, artists, performers and philanthropic entrepreneurs. During her tenure at the Daily News, she wrote features about emerging artists, theater companies and galleries. When she moved to Los Angeles, she partnered up with friends to open a store, "Steinberg and Sons" with the intention of providing independent designers with a place to sell their wears. She also co-curated a mixed media show at the Alleged Gallery, and helped recruit performers-- like bullwhip artists and burlesque baton twirlers-- for Russell Steinberg's variety show called "Below the Belt". It is the curating and appreciation of human talent that continues to interest Tatiana, and therefore, also the creative collaboration of filmmaking. Tatiana has done Graduate work in Applied Psychology, and has trained as a teacher. Both helped prepare her for directing. She is also the Program Director of The Diller-von Furstenberg Family Foundation, where she is continuously inspired by the work of many social service organizations. Tatiana generates narrative lyrics for a musical entity called PLAYDATE. Tatiana is dedicated to telling stories, homemaking and the human condition. She lives in Los Angeles with her eleven year old daughter and their dogs. She met Francesca Gregorini 90' while they were at Brown University.Tatiana recently directed the DVF Fall 2011 advertisement campaign, collaborating once again with Francesca Gregorini and Director of Photography Bryan Rigney Hubbard (RISD). Tatiana is currently editing a short narrative film that she shot in Austria, called the ‘Tyrolean Riviera’ and is at work on a screenplay. von Sydow, Henrik (1982) Semiotics Director, producer and content editor. Presently working as content editor on The Ingmar Bergman Centennial, a feature length documentary film premiering in January 2018. Henrik has directed more than 300 commercials, produced and directed many television series and and reality shows. He lectures regularly on advert storytelling (commercials), film dramaturgy and conducts workshops in film production. He also teaches high school youngsters who have immigrated to Sweden. Henrik has a Bachelor of Arts in Semiotics and Comparative Literature from Brown. Based in Stockholm, Sweden. Walker, David (2011) MCM, Track II David Walker is living in Boston working on launching a Social Video Division for R2Integrated, a Digital Marketing and Technology Company. He plans to continue to make films and to return to graduate school one day. Wallace, Paul (2008) Art-Semiotics After graduation, Paul moved to Los Angeles on the coattails of his feature film, THE FACE, which enjoyed a festival run after it's premiere at the Rhode Island International Film Fest. In LA, he continued working with professor Mark Tribe on the final installments of the Port Huron Project, as well as writing and producing a pilot for an original web-series, entitled AION. He then worked with producer Denise DiNovi, spent a year as a talent agent's assistant at the Endeavor Talent Agency, and then landed at the media firm The Ant Farm. Paul is now a part-time sculptor, showing regularly in Venice, CA, part-time writer, working on his first novel, and full-time producer of video-game integrated media campaigns at The Ant Farm." website 1 website 2 Wallner, Eric (1990) Art-Semiotics Creative Economy Specialist for the City of Ventura (CA). Wasow, Althea (1997) MCM Ph.D. student in Film and Media at UC Berkeley. Writer and director of the wannabe, winner of "Best Short Film" at HBO's New York International Latino Film Festival in 2006 Welt, Michael (1998) MCM Documentary filmmaker based in New York, currently a producer at Florentine Films (Ken Burns). Previously worked on a series of historical documentaries at Lucasfilm. Werbach, Adam (1995.5) MCM Chief Sustainability Officer, Saatchi & Saatchi,f ormerly national president of the Sierra Club and founder of Act Now Productions. Directed 2011 indie rock documentary "This is Noisepop!" Sometimes wears different colored socks. Twitter @adamwerbachms Wheadon, Nico (2006) Art-Semiotics London-based curator, writer, artist and creative consultant. Her multidisciplinary practice surveys the cultural roles of visual production and translation to stage alternate traditions for viewership and authorship. website Wollach, Diana (2009) MCM, Track II She is currently living in NY and working as the marketing coordinator of corporate/product marketing at The Orchard, a music and video distribution company. Wolsk, Becky (1993) Literature and Society Becky Wolsk ("Becky Schotland" at Brown) writes and quilts through her cottage industry of Text Isle Patchwork. She is the author of two novels, FOOD AND WORRY and SIX WORDS. By November 2011, she will publish THE TEXT ISLE PATCHWORK COOKBOOK. You can visit her online portfolio at www.textislepatchwork.com to check out the short fiction and non-fiction that she published before taking on novels. Meanwhile, in the blogosphere, Becky writes about publishing, quilting, and cookbooking at www.textislepatchworkblog.com. Her blog also features book reviews of forgotten or underrated jewels. Yohalem, Eve (1989) Literature and Society Eve Yohalem is the author of the middle grade novel, Escape Under the Forever Sky, and the Grandpa Hates the Bird stories for younger readers. website Zacks, Linda (1995) Art-Semiotics Brooklyn-based artist, illustrator, designer. website Zaugg, Isabelle (2006) Art-Semiotics Currently an MA student in the Film & Electronic Media program at American University in Washington DC. Along with her own media practice, she also works as an arts and media educator. Isabelle won a 2012 Fulbright Scholarship to teach digital filmmaking to youth in Ethiopia. She and her husband Abel Tilahun have two children born in 2010 and 2012. Ziff, Emily (2000) Art-Semiotics film and television writer and producer, partners with Philip Seymour Hoffman in Cooper's Town Productions Zimbalist, Jeff (2000) Art-Semiotics Award-winning documentary filmmaker. website Zimmer, Maura J. (1990) Art-Semiotics Independent book designer and illustrator. website Zins-Browne, Andros (2004) Art-Semiotics Choreographer, artist. Studying in Brussels at PARTS. Collaborated on The Kansas City Shuffle, a creation by Sandy Williams. Created first group piece, Second Life, in 2008. Zuccarini, Pete (1988) Art-Semiotics Underwater cinematographer, working for National Geographic and on Hollywood productions. Related Files mcm2013_graduates.pdf mcm2014_graduates.pdf 2015_graduates_blurbs.pdf Interships_concentrators.pdf 2016_graduates_blurbs.pdf 2017_graduates_ blurbs.pdf 2018 graduates.pdf 2019 graduates updated.pdf 2020 graduates.pdf MCM Class of 2021 Contact Information.pdf Also in Modern Culture and Media Home Black Lives Matter Confronting Anti-Asian Bias and Violence About People Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Courses Production Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Events 2020-2021 Past Events MCM News Print this Page Share this Page Modern Culture and Media Brown University Box 1957 155 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2853 Fax 401-863-2158 [email protected] Calendar Jun 1 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit View full calendar > Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Find MCM Facebook Twitter Instagram 155 George Street (Main Office) 135 Thayer Street Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity