HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation ABOUT FAQ CONTACT US Frequently Asked Questions What and when is Intake? Intake is the process of membership selection used by fraternities and sororities belonging to the National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) and some of our Multicultural Greek Council (MGC) organizations. The process is similar for each organization. All groups require that selected members have a certain number of academic and community service hours as well as certain grade point averages. However, the length of the process is different, and range from three days to four weeks. For more information, please check the individual organizations’ website's. Recruitment Recruitment is the official process to join a fraternity or sorority affiliated with the Interfraternity Council (IFC) or the Clemson Panhellenic Association (CPA). To participate in the recruitment process, you must register by visiting the council website. CPA has one formalized primary recruitment process in the fall, and IFC has both a fall and spring recruitment. Continuing Clemson students must have a minimum 2.7 cumulative GPA for IFC Recruitment. How long is the New Member process, and what are the requirements? While each new member process varies among each chapter, no new member period should last longer than eight weeks. Typically, the NPHC groups initiate after a shorter new member period. Most groups will require some mandatory study halls and new member meetings. All groups also have a one-time new member fee. For more information, ask one of the members while visiting during the Recruitment or Intake processes. What is an Interest Meeting? NPHC groups hold Interest Meetings in which they discuss their national and chapter’s history, service initiatives, and requirements to become a member. For more information on when each group will be holding Interest meetings, contact the Fraternity and Sorority Life Office at 864-656-7578. Is there a minimum GPA for the different organizations? There is a minimum GPA to go through the recruitment process/join an organization affiliated with the Interfraternity Council (IFC), National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC), and Multicultural Greek Council (MGC). A student must have a cumulative 2.7 GPA to register for IFC rush or apply for NPHC or MGC membership intake. Grades will be verified by Clemson University staff. There will be no exceptions to this policy. For the Clemson Panhellenic Association (CPA), there is no GPA requirement to participate in recruitment. However, each CPA sorority has their own GPA requirements to join their organizations. How should I act and what should I know before I join? How can I increase my chances of joining a Fraternity or Sorority? Act like yourself! You want to know what the fraternity or sorority is like as much as they want to know the real you. Look at all the chapters with an open mind. The number one reason people choose not to join a fraternity or sorority is because they did not get invited back to their first or only choice. Remember, the group you decide to join is going to be the best on campus. Stay positive and don’t criticize other potential new members. What are the financial obligations of joining a sorority or fraternity? If you are serious about joining a fraternity or sorority, you must be serious about your financial obligations to that organization. The cost varies with each organization. However, you should ask about these costs during the recruitment times. The first semester of joining a fraternity or sorority will be the most expensive due to new member fees. How can I stay in the loop with what's going on in Fraternity and Sorority Life? Fraternity and Sorority Life sends out a newsletter, the Greek Gazette,to the community and other stakeholders. If you would like to view the past newsletters and subscribe to our monthly newsletter, click the links below Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Subscribe to the Greek Gazette! CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster