Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Political Science Undergraduate Graduate BA/MA JD/MA Advising Internships People News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News/Events News & Awards Lectures and Events Department Newsletter Fall 2018Fall 2017Fall 2016Fall 2015Fall 2014Fall 2013 Program Rankings Take Action Alumni and Friends Make a Gift to Political Science Registered Student Organizations / Clubs Contact Follow Us Online Facebook Home Political Science News/Events News and Awards Several faculty members and students in the Political Science department have recently received awards and published creative works and publications. We congratulate all of the following on their accomplishments. Spring 2021 2021 Winnie Venstra Peace Lecture Dr. Dursun Peksen will deliver the 2021 Winnie Venstra Peace Lecture on the subject of "Political Effectiveness, Negative Externalities, and the Ethics of Economic Sanctions" on Monday, April 5 at 5:30 PM on Zoom. As many of you know, Dr. Peksen is one the world's leading experts on sanctions and human rights, and this should be an exciting opportunity to hear him talk about the subject. Full Details Graduate student honored as West Tennessee Teacher of the Year Congratulations to our current graduate student Daniel Warner! He has been selected West Tennessee Teacher of the Year! Daniel teaches American History at East High School in Memphis and had previously received the New Memphis Teacher of Excellence Award and a James Madison Fellowship. For more background see today's story in the Daily Memphian. January: Congratulations to Dr. Sharon Stanley! Her article "The Persistence of Myth: Brazil's Undead Racial Democracy" has been accepted for publication in Contemporary Political Theory. Contemporary Political Theory is among the top ranked, peer reviewed journals in political theory. January: Congratulations to Dr. Leah Windor (Faculty Affiliate and MA '05)! Two of her articles have been accepted as part of a PS: Political Science & Politics symposium on the status of the profession. The first is "Not a leaky pipeline! Academic success is a game of Chutes and Ladders," co-authored with Kerry F. Crawford (James Madison University) and Marijke Breuning (UNT Denton). The other is "MENtorship: Men in the Middle and their roles as allies in addressing gender bias," co-authored with Cameron Thies (Arizona State). PS is published by the American Political Science Association and is the journal of record for the discipline of political science reporting on research, teaching, and professional development. Summer/Fall 2020 Congratulations to Dr. Dursun Peksen! He has been awarded a Professional Development Assignment (PDA) for Fall 2021. He will use his PDA to work on his current book project. PDA awards reflect the high level of scholarly accomplishments of our faculty. I am sure you join me in congratulating Dursun on his newest achievement! Congratulations to Dr. Leah Windsor! Her article "Gender in the time of COVID-19: Evaluating national leadership and COVID-19 fatalities" - co-authored with Gina Yannitell Reinhart (Essex), Alistair Windsor (Memphis), Robert Ostergard (UNR), Susan Allen (Univ. of Mississippi), Courtney Burns England (Bucknell), Jarod Giger (Univ. of Kentucky), and Reed Wood (Essex) - has been accepted for publication by PLOS ONE Congratulations to Dr. Dursun Peksen! His article “Natural Resource Wealth and the Informal Economy,” (co-authored with our former colleague Robert Blanton) has been accepted for publication in the International Political Science Review. IPSR is the flagship journal of the International Political Science Association (IPSA). Congratulations to Dr. Derefe Chevannes! His article "The Laboring of Black Politics: Decolonial Meditations on Claudia Jones" has been accepted for publication by the Political Research Quarterly. PRQ is among the leading, peer-reviewed generalist journals in political science, and is hosted by the Western Political Science Association. Dr. Eric Groenendyk has been elected to serve on the Governing Council of the International Society of Political Psychology (ISPP). As part of serving on the Governing Council, he will serve on one of ISPP's Operating Committees; write and review reports and recommendations from other committees, helping to drive the future direction of ISPP; review ISPP's finances and vote to approve ISPP's annual budget; and attend 2 Governing Council meetings per year. His election represents a significant recognition of his international standing in the discipline. Visit Dr. Groenendyk's faculty page to view his bio. Dr. Dursun Peksen is the recipient of a Dunavant Professorship. The Dunavant Professorship recognizes exceptional achievement in teaching, scholarship, service, and outreach. For the past eight years, Dr. Peksen has made outstanding contributions to research, teaching and service at the University of Memphis. The Dunavant Professorship will provide $5,000 annually for the next three years to support Dr. Peksen's research program. Visit the Accolades website for more details. Congratulations to Dr. Eric Groenendyk! His article "What Motivates Reasoning? A Theory of Goal-Dependent Political Evaluation" (co-authored with Yanna Krunikov) has been accepted for publication at the American Journal of Political Science. AJPS is considered one of the Top Three journals in political science. Dr. Kris-Stella Trump has received one of the Small Research Grants from the American Political Science Association for her project ""Lazy Natives" and "Hard Working Immigrants": Comparing the Impact of Deservingness Cues on Perceptions of Deservingness." APSA is the leading professional organization for the study of political science, and the award of $2,500 represents a very prestigious recognition of her work. Dr. Kris-Stella Trump received a Professional Development Award for Fall 2020 Dr. Dursun Peksen's article (co-authored with Ryan Yu-Lin Liou and Amanda Murdie) "Revisiting the Causal Links Between Economic Sanctions and Human Rights Violations," has been accepted for publication at Political Research Quarterly. PRQ is a peer-reviewed journal published by the Western Political Science Association. Spring 2020 Congratulations to Dr. Kris-Stella Trump! Her article "The Effect of Postcard Reminders on Vaccinations Among the Elderly: A Block-Randomized Experiment" (co-authored with Nuole Chen, Stacy Hall and Quan Le) has been accepted at Behavioral Public Policy. Behavioral Public Policy is an interdisciplinary and international peer-reviewed journal devoted to behavioral research and its relevance to public policy. Dr. Dursun Peksen received the 2020 Alumni Association Distinguished Research in Social Sciences Award. Dr. Peksen (PhD, University of Missouri, 2008) joined the Department of Political Science in 2012. Visit the Accolades website for full details on the award. Congratulations to Dr. Sharon Stanley! Her article "Unbridled Stallions and Mad Bulls: Masculinity, Race, and Sexuality in Hemispheric Perspective" has been accepted at New Political Science. New Political Science is the official journal of the Caucus for a New Political Science (CNPS), an Organized Section of the American Political Science Association. Dr. Derefe Chevannes has received a Catherine and Charles Freeburg Fellowship at the Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities. The fellowship will provide for a one semester research leave and related support in spring 2021 for his project "Beyond Euromodernity: Political Speech as Liberation." Visit Dr. Chevannes faculty page to learn more about his research. Newsletter A few of the items included in the Fall 2018 newsletter are: A Note from the Chair News from Lambuth Campus Upcoming Events Tennessee Legislative Internship Program Department News Faculty Profile and Accomplishments Student Accomplishments Alumni News Read the newsletter now. Past Accomplishments Dr. Nicole Detraz - 2017 Dunavant Professor Award Dr. Sharon Stanley – 2016 University of Memphis Alumni Association Distinguished Teaching Award. Dr. Michael Sances – Russell Sage Foundation Grant Dr. Nicole Detraz and Dr. Eric Groenendyk – Professional Development Assignments 2016/17. Dr. Eric Groenendyk – Best Paper in Political Psychology award from the American Political Science Association. Dr. Shelby Grossman – Postdoctoral Fellow at the Center on Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law at Stanford University. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/15/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.