COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Livestock Poultry Health Regulatory Services Give Communications & Marketing Our Mission An essential part of Clemson’s land-grant mission is imparting research-based information to an array of constituencies throughout the state and communicating the impact our research, teaching and Extension programming has on the citizens of South Carolina. To that end, our Communications Team offers services in the areas of news writing and dissemination; print publication design; graphic design; web development, training, design and consultation; social media strategy; marketing and branding; media relations; display and conference booth design; and digital media and video production. Let us help you tell the world about the great work you do! Contact Us How To Get Started Contact us Reach out to our team by filling out our project request form. Consultation time Meet with our team to discuss project scope and come up with a plan to tackle the job. Let’s get after it! We get busy working on your project while keeping you updated. Enjoy the results It’s time to roll out your new website, video, news story, logo, marketing campaign, etc. Meet the Team Jonathan Veit Communications Director Office: (864) 656-6463 Mobile: (706) 255-0222 veit@clemson.edu Jonathan directs strategic communications for Clemson's College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences, and for Public Service and Agriculture, the regulatory and outreach arm of the university. Prior ... Read More Jonathan directs strategic communications for Clemson's College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences, and for Public Service and Agriculture, the regulatory and outreach arm of the university. Prior to working for Clemson, he was a communicator for the University of Georgia's Carl Vinson Institute of Government. Before his career in higher education communications, he worked in corporate communications and in newspaper journalism. Denise Attaway News Editor/Writer Office: (864) 656-2702 avaa@clemson.edu I am a writer/editor/photographer for PSA Media Relations. My background includes working for newspaper, radio and in public relations. I have experience in writing, editing, building websites, shooting still shots and shooting video. Donna Bowen Web Designer Office: (864) 656-2379 bowen3@clemson.edu Donna swore up and down she was DONE with Clemson after attending a basketball camp and bunking in Johnstone. Two Clemson degrees later – a BA in Languages and an MA in Professional ... Read More Donna swore up and down she was DONE with Clemson after attending a basketball camp and bunking in Johnstone. Two Clemson degrees later – a BA in Languages and an MA in Professional Communications – and after a brief stint as a business consultant, she’s 12+ years into her Clemson communications career, serving Clemson’s Public Service and Agriculture division as well as the College of Agriculture, Forestry, and Life Sciences. Donna’s main responsibilities include managing top-level social media accounts, overseeing branding initiatives, website development and developing and delivering training. Steven Bradley News Editor/Writer Office: (864) 614-0208 sbradle@clemson.edu I am a writer, editor and photographer in the PSA Media and Communications office. After 13 years as a journalist — both sports and news — I returned to my alma mater in 2017 to assume my ... Read More I am a writer, editor and photographer in the PSA Media and Communications office. After 13 years as a journalist — both sports and news — I returned to my alma mater in 2017 to assume my current position. My CAFLS/PSA unit communication responsibilities include: the Department of Forestry & Environmental Conservation, Baruch Institute of Coastal Ecology and Forest Science, Coastal REC, Sandhill REC, Extension 4-H Youth Development, Extension Agribusiness, Extension Horticulture, Extension Natural Resources, Clemson Experimental Forest and the Institute of Translational Genomics. Bek Diamond Graphic Designer rdiamon@g.clemson.edu While pursuing a Marketing degree at Clemson University, I am excited to serve as a graphic designer for CAFLS, PSA and Extension. With a skillset in graphic design and illustration, I am able to partner with clients throughout the state to achieve Clemson’s land-grant mission by providing creative resources that include branding, marketing materials, and illustration. Tom Hallman News Editor/Writer Office: (864) 656-5159 thallma@clemson.edu I am a writer, editor and photographer for the media relations office in Clemson's Public Service and Agriculture division. I re-joined my alma mater in 2010 following a career in journalism and public relations. Charlene Mayfield Graphic Designer/Publications Office: (864) 656-4667 cmyfld@clemson.edu My first “real job” after college was working in the advertising department for the (then) Anderson Independent-Mail. After a brief time there, I was hired as a graphic designer with the Agriculture ... Read More My first “real job” after college was working in the advertising department for the (then) Anderson Independent-Mail. After a brief time there, I was hired as a graphic designer with the Agriculture Communications department. Someone once told me “you’ll be a lifer” and I guess it’s true. This year, the infamous 2020 will be my 31st here at Clemson. I’m the last one of that original department, but love the new communications team I work with. I love graphic design and, after all the new technology, I still love the feel of paper. My main job is graphic design for print publications, but am doing more online publications as well. Hannah Hendricks Web Developer hhendr2@clemson.edu Coming from a background in marketing, I’m excited to put my experience in web development to good use in a higher education setting. As a member of the Communications team, I serve ... Read More Coming from a background in marketing, I’m excited to put my experience in web development to good use in a higher education setting. As a member of the Communications team, I serve within PSA, CAFLS and Extension units to provide web services including web design and consultation, website updates, training, and technical support. Walker Massey Web Designer/Illustrator Office: (864) 656-2567 emassey@clemson.edu Illustration is my passion but my skill set reaches far beyond. I enjoy serving the multiple units within PSA, CAFLS and Extension to provide consultation and graphic design services among ... Read More Illustration is my passion but my skill set reaches far beyond. I enjoy serving the multiple units within PSA, CAFLS and Extension to provide consultation and graphic design services among communication mediums including print, web, social media, and illustration. Ronald Weber Video and Digital Media Producer Office: (864) 367-7609 raweber@clemson.edu From a young age, Ron began to implement his creativity into a line of dynamic visual storytelling. Born in the upstate of South Carolina, Ron was excited to discover that ... Read More From a young age, Ron began to implement his creativity into a line of dynamic visual storytelling. Born in the upstate of South Carolina, Ron was excited to discover that his technical skills would continue on as video and digital media producer at Clemson University. Now he looks forward to contributing a new chapter of storytelling for the next generation of people. Communications & Marketing Request A Project Branding and Marketing Toolkit Approval Policy for CAFLS-PSA Communications List of Communications Approvers Website Rebuild Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Public Service and Agriculture Clemson, SC Contact Us Emergency Preparedness For Employees Page Update Request