Skip to content Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Find People Events Global Health Donate Search About Us About Us Explore VP&S Message from the Dean VP&S History Celebrating the Leadership of Lee Goldman Facts & Statistics 2021 State of the School Explore VP&S Leadership and Administration Campus Resources and Facilities Events Community Programs Contact Us Education Education Academic Programs Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Student Resources Office of Innovation in Health Professions Education Academic Programs MD Program MD Dual Degrees and Special Programs Program in Genetic Counseling Programs in Human Nutrition Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Physical Therapy PhDs in Biomedical Sciences Additional Master's Degree Programs Additional Educational Opportunities MD Program Join our MD program to become a physician with compassion, a sense of self, and true grit in all medical pursuits. Explore Our Program Research Research Office for Research Areas of Research Research Faculty Honors and Awards For Researchers For Researchers Core and Shared Facilities Research Resources Funding Areas of Research VP&S continues to be a world leader across the entire spectrum of basic science, translational, and clinical research Learn About Our Research Patient Care Departments & Centers Departments & Centers Affiliated Hospitals and Institutions Basic Science Departments Centers and Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Faculty Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Our mission is to provide world-class patient care, foster innovative research, and train the next generation of leaders in medicine. View Clinical Departments and Divisions Comprehensive and Compassionate Care Starts Here Patient Care Improving the health of our patients is at the core of everything we do at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons (VP&S). Clinicians must learn to provide compassionate and effective care while respecting the dignity and experience of those they treat. Our faculty embody these principles through their innovative teaching and mentoring and, most importantly, by example. Patient care that acknowledges the patient as person plays a fundamental role in our academic programs. Our innovative and patient-focused MD degree program introduces patient interaction early in a student's training and places a strong emphasis on patient stories. Our offerings in narrative medicine, a discipline pioneered here at Columbia, help students learn the importance of empathy and reflection as an essential part of the role of clinician. All first-year medical students at Columbia are required to complete an intensive half semester seminar in the humanities. Additionally, VP&S offers a monthlong intensive fourth-year elective in narrative medicine to develop narrative skills that will support attentive patient care. The Mary & Michael Jaharis Simulation Center is a state-of-the-art facility that serves as the hub for simulation-based medical and surgical education and training. Our students spend approximately 60 hours in the simulation center during their four-year curriculum. In addition to using high-tech tools for learning and practicing procedures, students learn through interactions with standardized patients—skilled actors playing the role of patients in a variety of scenarios. VP&S student run clinics provide hands-on experience caring for patients in the underserved communities near Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Our global programs offer additional opportunities for students to broaden their worldview and explore different clinical environments and challenges. The MD program's prestigious Columbia-Bassett track focuses on patient-centered care in a large, mostly rural population. Our world-renowned residency and fellowship programs expose young clinicians to an extraordinary range of disease at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, one of the busiest teaching hospitals in NYC. And as one of the nation's leading centers for research and clinical trials, VP&S plays a major part in transforming and advancing the future of medical care for all. MD Curriculum Learn About MD Curriculum Learn About MD Curriculum Student-run Clinics Student-run Clinics Simulation Center Simulation Center Global Programs Global Programs Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Columbia-Bassett Columbia-Bassett Find a doctor or practice in your area Find a Doctor Find a Doctor Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About VP&S Careers Education Research Administration Inside VP&S Columbia University Irving Medical Center Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Back to top