Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Campus profile Academic offerings Administration Prominent alumni Intercollegiate athletics Location and facilities Student life Undergraduate costs Maps and directions Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Contact SMU Administration About SMU / Administration / Harold W. Stanley Harold W. Stanley Academic leader and political science scholar Harold W. Stanley became SMU’s vice president for executive affairs in February 2016. Previously he served as vice president for academic affairs and provost ad interim, and as an SMU associate provost. Professor Stanley holds the Geurin-Pettus Distinguished Chair in American Politics and Political Economy in the Department of Political Science in Dedman College at SMU. The focus of his research and teaching at SMU has been within American government—southern politics, Latino politics, and presidential elections. Born and raised in Enterprise, Alabama, Professor Stanley attended public schools there. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Yale in 1972, graduating honors with exceptional distinction in political science and magna cum laude. He was awarded a Rhodes Scholarship to study at Oxford University (Worcester College) from 1972–1975, gaining a Masters of Philosophy in Politics. He returned to Yale to earn a Ph.D. in Political Science in 1981. He has published three books, Vital Statistics on American Politics 2011–2012 (CQ Press, thirteenth edition), Voter Mobilization and the Politics of Race: The South and Universal Suffrage, 1952 –1984 (Praeger, 1987), and Senate vs. Governor, Alabama 1971: Referents for Opposition in a One-Party Legislature (University of Alabama Press, 1975). He has also published numerous journal articles, book chapters, and reviews. His writings have appeared in, among other journals, the American Political Science Review, the American Journal of Political Science, and the Journal of Politics. Professor Stanley has testified often as an expert witness in federal court cases on voting rights and redistricting, serving on four occasions as the federal court’s own expert. At SMU Professor Stanley has been a member of the Executive Board for the John Goodwin Tower Center for Public Policy and International Affairs since 2003, chaired the Honors Task Force (2006-2007), served on the General Education Review Committee (2007-2009), and co-chaired the Faculty/Staff Steering Committee in the Second Century Campaign (2009-2010). Professor Stanley served as president of the Southern Political Science Association in 2000-2001. He received a Distinguished Teacher of the Year award from the Student Senate at the University of Rochester. In 2010 he received an award “For Outstanding Teaching in Political Science” from Pi Sigma Alpha and the American Political Science Association. In 2008 he was given the Distinguished University Citizen Award at SMU and in 2010 the "M" Award, the most highly prized recognition bestowed upon students, faculty, staff and administrators at SMU. Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"