Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Suboxone Suboxone Columbia Health is committed to providing support for students in recovery from opioid dependency. Medical Services provides confidential, on campus medication-assisted treatment through SUBOXONE or Vivitrol when appropriate. Who is eligible to be prescribed SUBOXONE? Current Columbia students who are currently prescribed buprenorphine and naloxone (SUBOXONE, SUBUTEX) as part of their comprehensive opioid addiction treatment therapy AND have paid the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee may choose to continue their treatment at Medical Services with a certified prescriber. How do I make an appointment to get a SUBOXONE prescription? Eligible students can self-schedule by making an appointment for a physical exam with Dr. Brenda Aiken by calling 212-854-7426. How much will it cost? SUBOXONE is covered by the pharmacy benefits of the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan (with associated co-payments), and visits on campus are covered by the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee. Students who are using outside insurance must consult their plan benefits. Is SUBOXONE the same as Narcan? No, while SUBOXONE contains the same ingredient, naloxone, which is the antidote to reverse an opioid overdose, Narcan (naloxone) nasal spray is used in an emergency as a treatment for drug overdose. SUBOXONE is a medication that is used long term to help people recover from opioid addiction. If you would like training in the use of naloxone, training and kits are available for the Columbia community by requesting an on-campus training for your group or through the NYC Department of Health. What should I do if I or someone I know has an opioid dependence and is not in treatment? While Columbia Health does not currently initiate SUBOXONE therapy for those who are currently using opioids, we can assist you in finding local other confidential resources within the student insurance network until maintenance can be achieved. Please schedule an appointment with your primary care clinician to discuss options available for care For more information about managing addiction, visit Go Ask Alice!’s answer on painkiller abuse. For counseling support, call Counseling and Psychological Services at 212-854-2878 to make an appointment. Make an Appointment Medical Services Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Medical Services Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close