Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search You Belong Here Join us for a completely virtual visit to SMU! Tune in to a live virtual information session or live chat with an SMU admission counselor and take a virtual campus tour today. Apply NowVisit Us Life in Dallas At SMU, Dallas is your classroom. You do you, boldly, in this vibrant community that embraces a world of ideas and backgrounds and offers access to top employers, more than 20 Fortune 500 company headquarters and thousands of internship opportunities.Explore Life in Dallas Student Story There are so many resources in the city of Dallas and within SMU News Dallas ranked #2 nationally among the best places for business and careers Forbes 2019 Play The Mustang’s Dallas Guide Whether you are interested in business, art or research, Dallas is the perfect place to start your career. Academics From your very first semester at SMU, you have access to everything that defines the signature SMU experience: research opportunities in a variety of disciplines, outstanding faculty who love to mentor, advisors who will help you navigate your academics, business pitch competitions to start a company and so much more.Explore Academics Top 5% SMU alumni among the top 5% of highest-paid graduates across a range of fields. College Factual 2021 11:1 Student-to-faculty ratio with more professors per student than the national average. Top 20% Of national universities ranked by U.S. News & World Report. First-Rate Facilities As a comprehensive research institution, SMU has an unbelievable number of facilities to support your work.Explore Academics Life on Campus Mustangs thrive on more than a century of spirit and traditions. Feel at home in any of our 11 Residential Commons – your instant campus family. Here, academic focus, lifelong friendships and social and leadership opportunities add up to an unforgettable college experience.Explore Life on Campus Residence Life The best things about each of our 11 Residential Commons Spirit & Traditions A legacy of spirit, tradition and pride Health & Safety Day or night, a safe ride home Explore Campus Welcome to our vibrant community, where relationships matter – faculty who will encourage you to think big, friends who will have your back and alumni who will help you get a foot in the door.Take the Virtual Tour Paying for SMU We automatically consider you for academic awards after you apply for admission. We work hard to address your unique financial circumstances by partnering with you to explore a combination of federal, state and SMU-funded awards.More about Financial Aid $151 M+ SMU awarded more than $151 million in scholarships and grants last year. 3 out of 4 About 75% of students receive scholarships and/or financial aid. 72% With plenty of aid options available, most students graduate without debt. What Types of Financial Aid Are Available? Types of aid include scholarships, loans, grants, student employment, SMU or federal government funded financial aid programs and veteren benefits. Our office is happy to talk with you about any of these options.Get in touch Life After SMU SMU boasts some of the highest-paid graduates in the country and an outstanding post-graduation employment rate. EXPLORE SMU STORIES Alumni Garrett Haake ’07, MSNBC News Correspondent Alumni Bumble Founder and CEO, Whitney Wolfe Herd ’11 shares her SMU experience Alumni Tori Titmas ’15 Debuts New Movie on Amazon Prime Join SMU Network Your SMU experience doesn't end on graduation day. We pride ourselves on a successful and connected alumni network. Get Connected Request Information Loading... Close Menu 0 Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search