COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News File photo Nerea Makoli Quiros is a sprinter on Wichita State University's track and field team. She is majoring in graphic design. May 06, 2022Graduate ProfilesTalent Pipelinegraphic designCollege of Fine Artsstudentsgraduation Meet a Shocker: Nerea Makoli Quiros By Paul Suellentrop Nerea Makoli Quiros encourages students to confidently ask for help from professors and classmates. Openness to new people and new experiences, she said, is a valuable part of college. Nerea is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Hometown Madrid, Spain Degree I will graduate with a Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) in graphic design. What made you want to attend Wichita State? Among all the universities that caught my attention, I decided to choose Wichita State because of its graphic design program and track and field Team. Also, I already had some international friends living here who recommended Wichita State. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? I am feeling really proud to graduate and excited for the new adventures that this new chapter will bring to my life. It has been a hard way with many ups and downs, but nothing that could stop me from my objectives. What was been your biggest challenge as a student, and how did you overcome it? The biggest challenge being an international student was being away from family and friends, while also having to adapt to a new culture, their customs and the different language. Being an athlete, I had so many situations where I would have to study at the same time I was competing or having classes when I had to practice and vice versa. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita State? The most helpful learning experience at Wichita State was the community experience, knowing so many people from different places in the United States and from different places in the world. What are your plans after graduation? After graduation I am planning to go back to Spain, I will be looking for a job in graphic design or keep learning more skills in the field. Also, I am planning on getting a minor in interior design while continuing to compete in track. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affect your time at Wichita State? It was very challenging to adapt to the new reality that we had to face, online classes with everything that it involves. I was lucky enough to be able to keep my job on campus and see some friends there. Traveling got really complicated, too, since we were almost forced to stay either in our native countries or in the United States without being able to see our families in vacation time. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? Keep up the hard work. The beginning is the hardest moment. If you are struggling, please do not hesitate to ask for help. Maybe you can be scared of certain professors or feel like maybe the first impression with a classmate was not good, but believe me when I say that the people, I connected the less with at the beginning, were the ones ending up being the closest to me or who would listen and offer me the best help. Always be nice and open to new people, even with those who look completely different from you or your ideals. It is really nice to get to know someone and learn new hobbies or ideas you never shared before. Low moments will always be there and that is a fact. It is part of the process and I assure you that anyone can overcome any kind of barriers and that is something I learned while being a student-athlete. College of Fine Arts at Wichita State University From working side by side with acclaimed artists to countless opportunities to showcase your talent on and off campus, Wichita State's College of Fine Arts provides an environment where you can train like a professional — and gain the skills, connections and confidence to launch your dream career. Learn more Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Talent Pipeline NIAR WERX announces MRO program expansion with Erickson Precision Ventures Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats WSU Foundation Woolseys give $1.3 million to fulfill vision for Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©