Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Health Sciences About Undergraduate Graduate Certificates & Continuing Ed Students Research Centers & Institutes News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Mission, Vision and Values Academic Programs Program Rankings Support our College Take Action Find a Program that Drives You Meet our Faculty Schedule an Advising Appointment Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home College of Health Sciences About College of Health Sciences Academic Programs Find the program that drives you. Bachelor's and Master's in Health Studies / Academic Minors Dietetics Undergraduate | Accelerated BS/MS The Dietetics curriculum provides foundation, knowledge, and skills in the areas of communications, physical and biological sciences, social sciences, research, food, nutrition, management and health care systems. Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences Undergraduate | Graduate | Accelerated BS/MS A concentration in Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences provides a comprehensive exposure to the field of exercise science, with coursework in areas such as kinesiology, physiology, biomechanics, motor behavior, and exercise programming. Health Sciences Undergraduate | Also available fully online The Health Sciences concentration allows you to pursue your interests among the various health professions. It is grounded in health promotion theory and practice and offers elective hours to allow you to align your program with your own professional goals. Healthcare Leadership Undergraduate | Offered online only The fully online concentration in Healthcare Leadership provides a comprehensive exposure to the field of leadership with coursework in areas such as the healthcare environment, professionalism, leadership, business skills and communication. Exercise Nutrition Graduate | Offered online only | Beginning Summer 2022 The master's degree in Exercise Nutrition is a fully online, 30-credit-hour program. Balance school and life with the flexibility of our UofM Global program designed for those who desire increased knowledge and understanding of exercise and nutrition science. The program provides coursework in research methods and statistics, exercise physiology, cellular nutrition and supportive areas of your choosing. Health Promotion Graduate | Offered online only This program examines the various factors responsible for the adoption and maintenance of health-related behaviors and identifies best practices that can be implemented for lifestyle change across a variety of settings. Graduates will be able to design, implement, manage and evaluate health promotion programs in a variety of settings. Medical Assisting Undergraduate Minor Coursework in the Medical Assisting minor allows students to obtain the necessary knowledge and practical skills needed to sit for the national certification exam in medical assisting. If you do not desire to obtain a certificate, the coursework should be helpful if you choose to pursue other entry-level healthcare positions for which such knowledge and skills may be desired. Nutrition, Health & Wellness Undergraduate Minor The Nutrition, Health & Wellness academic minor is intended to enrich your current plan of study and provide an opportunity to learn valuable skills and information applicable within healthcare settings. All students interested in pursuing this minor will be able to do so regardless of your academic major. Master of Science in Nutrition Clinical Nutrition Graduate | MS & DI/MS Combined Program The Master of Science in Nutrition / Dietetic Internship and Residency program is an intensive curriculum lasting only 16 months. The didactic curriculum focuses on preparing students for clinical rotations. Environmental Nutrition Graduate | Offered Online Only The master's degree in Environmental Nutrition is a fully online, 33-credit hour program that explores sustainable food and nutrition issues. The program examines the relationships between food, nutrition, and the environment. Nutrition Science Graduate The Nutritional Science concentration provides students with an excellent opportunity to pursue your interests in understanding the roles of nutrition in health and disease, development and aging, and in athletic performance. Physical Education Teacher Education BSEd and MS Physical Education Teacher Education Undergraduate | Graduate Online This PETE licensure program prepares you to become physically literate teachers and coaches who are trained in the best practices of physical education and wellness. It is a fully accredited program at the University of Memphis and is led by a vibrant and productive faculty that is nationally and internationally recognized for its scholarship. Sport Coaching Undergraduate The Sport Coaching concentration is designed to train forward-thinking people to be the coaches who will lead the next generation of athletes in the fast-paced world of sport. The program aims to prepare students for the demands of leading athletes in individual and team sports at all levels. You’ll receive instruction in areas such as coaching individual and team sports, motivation in athletes, sports performance, administration and leadership, as well as officiating techniques and instruction. Applied Physiology & Neuromechanics PhD Applied Biomechanics PhD | Laboratory Intensive A concentration in Applied Biomechanics is a focused research-intensive program in which the role of body mechanics and structure on human movement applications is examined. Applied Physiology & Nutrition PhD | Laboratory Intensive A concentration in Applied Physiology & Nutrition is a focused research-intensive program in which the effects of aging, environment, exercise, nutraceuticals, etc. on physiological systems are examined. Certificates & Continuing Education Sport Nutrition and Dietary Supplementation Graduate Certificate The graduate certificate in Sport Nutrition and Dietary Supplementation is useful for registered dietitians/nutritionists, strength and conditioning coaches, personal trainers and healthcare providers (e.g., nurses, pharmacists) who may receive questions from athletes or patients specific to the topics of sport nutrition and dietary supplementation. Sports Science Professional Education Certification (coming soon) The Professional Education Certification in Sport Science offered through our Human Performance Center will provide a bridge from formal study to actual application in the workplace. The certification is specifically designed for the exercise science student and others with formal education but limited practical experience in a sport science setting—those with aspirations of working in sport science, strength and conditioning, athletic training and athlete support. That is, for those who desire to work directly with sport coaches and athletes in performance settings. Surgical Technology Diploma In partnership with Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare, we offer a 12-month Surgical Technology program as part of the University of Memphis MLH Associate Advancement Program (MAAP). Surgical technologists, sometimes referred to as scrub techs or operating room technicians, are an important part of medical teams, assisting medical doctors, nurses and other healthcare providers in performing surgical procedures. Most surgical technologists work in hospitals, although some may work in outpatient care centers or physician's offices. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/24/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.