COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Service-Learning Section Menu Our Team Resources Service-Learning Showcase Notable Achievements VolunteerICT Service-Learning Champions Service-Learning Home Learn more about our resources!Resources Service-Learning at Wichita State University is an experiential learning method that integrates community service with instruction and reflection to improve student civic-mindedness and build community capacity. Service-Learning Showcase Champions Our Team Service-Learning Quick Links Resources Visit this page for resources for service-learning including our definition, types of service-learning and more information about our on-demand modules for both students and faculty. Service-Learning Showcase The Service-Learning Showcase is a unique opportunity for students who participate in service-learning through applied learning opportunities to showcase their experience through a research or reflective poster about the application of their course work to current community issues. The showcase is an open forum for students to interact with faculty/staff, community partners and other students to engage in conversation about Wichita State University's commitment to the public good. Link to more Showcase Information. Service-Learning Modules On Demand We have two on-demand modules available (student and faculty). These modules are accessible as a single sign-on with your myWSU ID at anytime. Upon successful completion of the module, both students and faculty will be able to download a personalized certificate. Students your faculty might as for your certificate for proof of completion as part of a service-learning project in your courses. Faculty, consider including your certificate in your annual Faculty Activity Report. Link to Modules Link to Module Information Flyer Service-Learning Course Attribute Process The Service-Learning Course Attribute was established in Spring 2021 as a tool to help students identify service-learning courses and opportunities, to help faculty distinguish service-learning courses, and to help with data collection for academic service-learning. For all courses as of Spring 2022, please use the CIM system to request an Service-Learning Course Attribute at the course level. For Existing Courses, if the only change needed to your course is the addition of the Service-Learning Attribute please select "Yes" and complete the service-learning section of questions. For New Courses, please select "Yes" and complete the service-learning section of questions along as a part of your entire course proposal. Below is a helpful guide for new courses. New Courses: Guide for faculty creating new courses in CIM. *please note, if you are an instructor who is interested in a service-learning attribute for a specific CRN in a given semester please contact Dr. Rhonda Lewis (rhonda.lewis@wichita.edu) or Dr. Chelsea Redger-Marquardt (chelsea.redger@wichita.edu) with your request. Please include your course syllabus and an outline of your service-learning project. Service-Learning Scholars Application Process and Information The Service-Learning Faculty Scholars program has been designed to empower committed service-learning faculty to cultivate and support interest in service learning in their fellow faculty members and through their classes and college. Our goal is to infuse the campus and community with a spirit of service-based academic engagement that ties the classroom experience to applied learning and experiential knowledge. Link to Scholars Application Process and Information Outcomes Applied Learning Engage Diversity Critical Thinking Reflection Community Impact Student Experience Connect with us facebook twitter youtube 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©