Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Forensic Chemistry Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Forensic Chemistry Certificate (Graduate) Forensic Chemistry Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Forensic Chemistry Graduate Certificate The Graduate Certificate in Forensic Chemistry in Temple’s College of Science and Technology allows you to explore the analytical methodologies necessary to solve problems in forensic chemistry, environmental chemistry and more. This 12- to 13-credit graduate certificate is designed for working professionals seeking career advancement and relevant jobs in the field. Forensic Chemistry Graduate Certificate courses are taught by faculty in the Professional Science Masters in Forensic Chemistry degree program. The curriculum includes core requirements in current topics in applied biopharmaceutics, data analysis, law, ethics, policy and toxicology, within the larger framework of forensic chemistry. Graduates of the Forensic Chemistry Graduate Certificate program develop a range of practical skills in forensic chemistry; a theoretical understanding of major concepts in forensic chemistry; and knowledge and skills applicable to academia, industry and government. Many courses in this certificate program emphasize hands-on training in a modular, forensic chemistry laboratory. Classes & Curriculum Courses you will choose from as part of the Forensic Chemistry Certificate (Graduate) curriculum include the following. Advanced Forensic Chemistry Analytical Separations Data Analysis and Evidence Investigative Chemistry Leadership, Law and Ethics in Forensic Science Special Topics in Analytical Chemistry Learn more about available courses in the Graduate Certificate in Forensic Chemistry curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Chemistry MS Chemistry PhD Forensic Chemistry PSM Careers The Graduate Certificate in Forensic Chemistry is designed for working professionals seeking to improve their academic credentials and advance their current career standing, as well as future forensic chemists pursuing roles in the field. Other potential career paths include analytical chemists, forensic scientists, scientific laboratory technicians and toxicologists. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors will help you to shape your coursework and research activities to align with your goals and academic interests. Susan Varnum is the associate dean for science education, a professor in the Chemistry Department and program director of the Forensic Chemistry Certificate (Graduate). Email: susan.varnum@temple.edu Seema Freer is an associate professor in the practice track and managing director of the College of Science and Technology professional science master’s programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Program Contact For general questions regarding the Forensic Chemistry Certificate (Graduate), contact cst.psm@temple.edu. For more specific questions regarding the program, contact the following staff members. Susan Varnum is the associate dean for science education, a professor in the Chemistry Department and program director of the Forensic Chemistry Graduate Certificate. Email: susan.varnum@temple.edu Seema Freer is an associate professor in the practice track and managing director of the College of Science and Technology professional science master’s programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: seema.freer@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Temple Organizations Chemistry after Dark is a monthly evening discussion group featuring research presentations by graduate students. Students learn to break down their ideas in clear, understandable ways for a wide and varied audience. Temple University Chemical Society is a student organization devoted to service, outreach and chemistry. Members meet with faculty in the "lunch and lab" program, volunteer at outreach events with local schools, and organize fundraisers to support scientific research. Temple University Forensics Association helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. Local Organizations Philadelphia Organic Chemists’ Club Philadelphia Inorganic Colloquium Science History Institute Philadelphia Science Festival Philadelphia Local American Chemical Society chapter Extracurricular Activities Join one of the department's intramural teams to get to know colleagues outside of the lab and enjoy the outdoors. Many labs have intramural teams that compete against each other in annual tournaments such as the department summer volleyball league. Learn more about student clubs and organizations in the Department of Chemistry. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-FCHM-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Forensic Chemistry Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.