Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Ways to Give There are many ways to make your gift to the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study. Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Copy Link Related Give Giving Opportunities Giving Societies Give Now Ways to Give Maximize your Impact Frequently Asked Questions Ways to Give By Credit Card Harvard Radcliffe Institute accepts the following credit cards: MasterCard, VISA, American Express, and Discover. We encourage you to make credit card gifts online, not by phone, due to reduced phone hours during the COVID-19 pandemic. If you have questions about making your online gift, please call the Office of Alumni and Development Services at +1 (617) 495-1750. By Check Please make your check payable to “Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study.” If possible, please draw from a US bank in US currency. If you would like your check to go toward a specific fund area (e.g. Schlesinger Library, Fellowship Program, Academic Ventures and Engagement) or if you are fulfilling a pledge, please indicate this in the check memo. USPS mailing address: Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study P.O. Box 419209 Boston, MA 02241-9209 FedEx and UPS mailing address: Bank of America Lockbox Services President & Fellows of Harvard College Box 419209 2 Morrissey Blvd MA5-527-02-07 Dorchester, MA 02125 With Stock/Securities When donating stock to the Harvard Radcliffe Institute, you may take a standard charitable deduction for the mean fair market value of the stock on the date of the gift while also avoiding capital gains tax on appreciated securities. To make a gift of securities, please contact the Alumni and Development Services-Trust Administration via e–mail at donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu or toll-free at +1 (866) 845-6596. To ensure proper processing of your gift, we strongly recommend that you also notify the Harvard Radcliffe Institute of the stock transfer by completing the following online form. From Your IRA If you are required to make withdrawals from your retirement account, a gift to Radcliffe can count toward your annual required minimum distribution (RMD). (The RMD applies to those who are age 72, or 70½ if you turned 70½ before Jan 1, 2020.) To initiate a transfer, contact your IRA administrator. To ensure proper crediting at Radcliffe, you will also need to notify giving@radcliffe.harvard.edu. For more information, or if you have any questions, please contact Harvard University Planned Giving at pgo@harvard.edu or +1 (800) 446-1277. From Your Donor-advised Fund (Fidelity, Schwab, etc.) Contact your fund administrator to request a grant recommendation or beneficiary designation form, or download the appropriate form(s) from your administrator's website. Recommend a grant to Radcliffe (legal name is “President and Fellows of Harvard College” and federal tax ID is 04–2103580). If possible, include a note with your grant recommendation indicating that the gift should be designated to Radcliffe. Please notify giving@radcliffe.harvard.edu if you choose to include Radcliffe as a beneficiary. By Wire Transfer To make a charitable gift by bank wire to the Harvard Radcliffe Institute, please use the following information: Receiving Bank Name: Bank of America, N.A. Receiving Bank Address: 222 Broadway New York, NY 10038 Beneficiary Legal Account Name: President & Fellows of Harvard College - RSO Account Client Mailing Address: 1033 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 406, 4th Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 Account #: 009429263621 Receiving Bank ACH ABA: 011000138 Receiving Bank Wire ABA: 026009593 Receiving Bank SWIFT Code: BOFAUS3N Memo/Reference: RI 6-0227, Donor Last Name, Gift Designation To ensure accurate handling, please send a confirmation e-mail to ADS@harvard.edu with the following details: Donor Name Contact Phone Number Date the wire was sent Name of the originating bank Amount of the bank wire Was a wiring fee deducted from the wire amount? With Collections, Art, or In-kind Gifts For donations of books or manuscripts to the Schlesinger Library, please contact the Schlesinger Library directly. To donate art or other in-kind gifts to the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, please contact John Christel at +1 (617) 384-8231 or john_christel@harvard.edu. With a Planned Gift Planned giving encompasses a variety of philanthropic strategies, including bequests and legacy giving, that can help you provide for the Radcliffe Institute while also advancing your own financial and personal objectives. Planned gifts can provide a predictable income for life for you and/or others, avoid upfront capital gains taxes, save on gift and estate taxes, and much more. For more information, please visit Harvard’s planned giving website or contact John Christel at +1 (617) 384-8231 or john_christel@harvard.edu. (If you choose to move forward with a planned gift and/or include Radcliffe in your estate, please notify the Institute so that we can recognize your generosity with membership in the Ann Radcliffe Society.) Maximize your Impact Matching Gifts If your or your spouse's employer has a matching gift program, you will be recognized for the full amount of your own gift plus the resulting corporate match. Find out if your employer will match your gift using the Matching Gift Program Search. Your employer's benefits or human resources office can provide information on how they process matching requests. Recurring Gifts Use our online form to set up a recurring gift on an annual or monthly basis. The former will ensure that your support of Radcliffe doesn’t lapse inadvertently, while the latter could enable you to increase your total giving by spreading out payments. To make changes to a recurring gift, please contact giving@radcliffe.harvard.edu. Endowment Gift Match For endowment gifts in support of Institute priorities, Radcliffe offers a time-limited matching gift program that increases the impact and recognition of donor gifts. The minimum gift required to establish a new endowed fund is $250,000, which can be fulfilled over a five-year period. Please contact Stacey Elwood, associate dean for External Relations at stacey_elwood@radcliffe.harvard.edu or (617) 495-9423 to learn more. Frequently Asked Questions I am having trouble making my online gift. Who should I contact? For all questions regarding online gifts, or to make a gift by phone, please call the Office of Alumni and Development Services at +1 (617) 495-1750. Please note that phone hours may be reduced due to the COVID-19 pandemic. How do I give in honor or memory of someone? If you would like your gift to honor someone special, please complete your donation using this ﻿form and then forward your confirmation email to giving@radcliffe.harvard.edu. You may also indicate your wish in a mailed note if you donate by check. Please be sure to include the name of the individual being recognized with your request. If contact information is available, Radcliffe will notify the honored individual or next-of-kin about your gift. Will my gift to Radcliffe be recognized by the Harvard College Fund and/or for my reunion? All gifts to Radcliffe from undergraduate alumni automatically receive recognition from the Harvard College Fund. Any gift to Radcliffe will be included in undergraduate class giving totals during both reunion and non-reunion years. Will my spouse and I both receive credit for my gift to Radcliffe? Joint crediting does not happen automatically. Married couples must indicate—on the online giving form or gift reply slip—if they would like their gift to be credited jointly. In that case, the amount will be split 50/50 for tax purposes but each person will receive recognition for the full amount of the gift. In cases where only one spouse should receive credit but the payment method lists both (e.g. a check from a joint account, or a reply slip that lists both spouses), please indicate your preference in the check memo or in a note accompanying the payment. What is Radcliffe’s legal name and tax ID number? Radcliffe uses Harvard University’s legal name (“President and Fellows of Harvard College”) and Tax ID Number (042103580). These should be used when giving via stock, donor-advised fund, or wire transfer. Is my gift to Radcliffe tax-deductible? Yes, gifts to Radcliffe are tax-deductible in the United States. For information about other countries, please consult your tax advisor. When will I receive a tax receipt from Radcliffe? You can expect to receive a tax receipt from Harvard Alumni and Development Services up to 15 business days after you make your gift to Radcliffe. How can I request a duplicate tax receipt for my gift? To get a duplicate receipt, contact Harvard Alumni and Development Services at (617) 495-1750 or ads@harvard.edu. Does Radcliffe have giving societies to recognize donors? Radcliffe's most generous donors are recognized as part of the Radcliffe Institute Leadership Society ($5,000+) and the Radcliffe Institute Associates ($1,000). Those who have notified Radcliffe of bequests and other planned gifts are recognized as part of the Ann Radcliffe Society. Learn more about Radcliffe's giving societies. Contact Radcliffe External Relations giving@radcliffe.harvard.edu (617) 496-5963 Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Support Harvard Radcliffe Institute. The Institute relies on the generosity of the Radcliffe community to fund our work. Thank you for considering a gift in support of the Institute’s mission. Give Now Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College