Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Life at Penn / Housing & Dining Housing & Dining With a multitude of housing and dining options both on and off campus, all members of the University community can find the accommodations that make Penn feel like home. Housing Student Housing and Related Services Penn’s College Houses provide supportive residential communities that enable undergraduate students to experience the University’s intellectual variety and strengths outside the classroom. Housing Options Penn’s residential system is comprised of 12 undergraduate College Houses and Sansom Place. Approximately 5,500 undergraduates live on campus. The College Houses offer distinct room types, amenities, and communities—making it easy to find what’s right for you. Temporary Housing Although reasonably priced short-term housing near campus is in very short supply, Off-Campus Services can provide listings of hostels, student residences, bed and breakfasts, and hotels in the area. Penn Home Ownership Services PHOS offers extensive resources and services to eligible employees interested in moving to the greater West Philadelphia neighborhood. Off-Campus Services Assistance and resources for Penn students, faculty, and staff who seek or currently occupy off-campus housing. Accommodations for Visitors A number of campus, Center City, and airport hotels offer special rates for individuals or groups visiting Penn. The Inn at Penn, the Sheraton Philadelphia University City Hotel, and Penn residence hall guest accommodations offer the most convenience for campus visitors. Dining Penn Dining Penn Dining ensures the delivery of high-quality food at a variety of venues, each of which helps create a sense of community and comfort among faculty, staff, and students. Retail Dining on Campus In partnership with Bon Appétit, Penn Dining oversees several retail establishments across campus, which include an array of cafés, markets, and grocers. University Club Membership to the University Club, located in the Inn at Penn, is open to Penn faculty, staff, alumni, graduate students, emeritus faculty, and retired staff. Membership privileges include complimentary morning refreshments, access to a reasonably priced lunch buffet, and preferred discounts. SHOP PENN Covering 10 city blocks across Penn’s campus are hundreds of retail shops, restaurants, and distinctly West Philly attractions for students and tourists alike. From quick grab-and-go meals to fine dining experiences, retail splurges, or just the essentials, SHOP PENN is a great day trip or resource for the Penn community. 1 / 4 Previous Next Hill College House 2 / 4 Previous Next Quadrangle 3 / 4 Previous Next Lauder College House 4 / 4 Previous Next Pret A Manger, Houston Hall Explore Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement Diversity Groups & Organizations Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Penn & Philadelphia Safety & Security Spirituality & Religion Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top