HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation FACILITIES Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Fitness Center Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Hours Facility Counts Floor Plan FITNESS AND WELLNESS Group Fitness F45 Small Group Training Fitness Assessments Personal Training Wellness Zone INTRAMURAL SPORTS CORE CORE Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CLUB SPORTS Club Sports Homepage Club Officer Resources Visiting Team Resources Group Fitness F45 Fitness Assessments Personal Training Small Group Training Wellness Zone Online Registration F45 Training at Clemson University The F45 schedule linked below reflects our planned class offerings, however due to the unforeseen circumstances surrounding COVID, we may modify or adjust these offerings as needed. Click the Register for an F45 Class button below for the most up-to-date offerings and to reserve your spot in an in-person class. Campus Recreation is proud to introduce F45 to Clemson University! F45 Training combines elements of High–Intensity Training (HIIT), Circuit Training, and Functional Training. The fusion of these three training concepts has led to the development of 31 different, 45 minute, workout experiences, with more in development by the F45 Athletics Department. This combination of interval, cardiovascular, and strength training has been proven to be the most effective workout method for burning fat and building a lean muscle. F45 SCHEDULE REGISTER FOR AN F45 CLASS EVALUATE OUR F45 TRAINERS What is F45 Training? F45 Training is a 45-Minute-High-Intensity, Circuit Training (HIIT) workout class. Each class begins with a short warm-up at the class start time. Following the warm-up, the core F45 Training workout is 45-minutes in length and each class ends with an optional cool down. What are the benefits of F45 Training? The combination of interval, cardiovascular, and strength training that F45 Training offers has been proven to be an effective workout method for burning fat and building lean muscle. Participating in F45 Training will help you build strength, improve cardiovascular fitness, increase speed, enhance agility, and gain flexibility. In addition to the effectiveness of the workout, F45 Training allows you the opportunity to reach new goals in a team environment. What is Functional Training? Functional Training is the engagement in exercises that mimic or recreate everyday movement. These types of exercises typically involve the use of your full body and multiple muscle groups. This style of training builds and sculpts lean, functional muscle–lifting, squatting, jumping, twisting, pulling, pushing, punching, kicking, rowing, biking–all of these movements qualify as "functional" and can be found at F45 Training. What is High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT)? HIIT stands for a style of workout meaning high intensity, interval training. It is a cardiovascular exercise strategy alternating short periods of intense anaerobic exercise with less intense recovery periods Who is F45 Training designed for? Everyone! F45 is particularly geared toward individuals who want to be challenged and grow their daily training routine while having fun. Fike students and existing Fike members have the ability to purchase an F45 membership, while non-members can purchase a one-day pass for $15. What level of fitness is required for F45 Training classes? F45 Training is meant to accommodate participants of all fitness levels. While it is helpful to have some experience and understanding of bodyweight exercises, weight training equipment, etc. our F45 trainers will be available to accommodate various fitness levels and provide modifications for challenging exercises. How do I register for F45 classes? Register for F45 classes here by clicking the Integrated Fitness & F45 icon. Learn how to register or cancel your registration here. How much does F45 Training cost? Fall/Spring Semester F45 Passes*: The full schedule of spring F45 classes will begin on Sunday, Jan. 6, 2019. Student Passes Fike Member Passes Guest Day Pass Fall semester: $50 Spring semester: $50 Fall semester: $75 Spring semester: $75 Member: $5 Other: $15 *Must have a Campus Recreation membership in order to purchase a Fall/Spring semester F45 pass. Where do F45 Training classes take place? The F45 Studio is located in the Functional Training Zone just past the Natatorium in Fike Recreation Center. When should I arrive to class? We recommend you arrive to the F45 studio ten minutes early as classes begin promptly at their scheduled time. Due to the format of F45 Training, you will not be permitted to enter the studio once the class begins. How long is a standard F45 Training class? Most F45 Training classes are 45-minute in length. Each class includes a short warm-up and ends with an optional cool down. Please note that occasional weekend classes offer an extended 60 minute format. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster