Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Academic Success Center Peer Learning Support Programs are available Online & In-Person! Tutoring and Peer-Led Learning One one-on-one, small group, and collaborative study sessions provide students with the opportunity to master course concepts and effectively use their study time to learn and collaborate with other students who are also focused on their academic success. To learn more about our services and to view the schedules, click the links below. See the orange “View Schedule” icons for schedule details. Tutoring Free appointment tutoring is offered for around 100 undergraduate courses. Tutoring sessions are facilitated by trained peer-tutors. Tutoring (if available) Tutor Matching Service (Private Tutoring) Become a Tutor View PAL Schedule View Tutoring Schedule Apply to be a PAL Leader or ASC Tutor Peer-Assisted Learning (PAL) Free peer-assisted learning (PAL) sessions are offered for foundational courses. PAL sessions are 80-minute collaborative learning sessions available to any student enrolled in the course. How to participate View PAL Schedule Become a Peer-Assisted Learning (PAL) leader Request for Course Assistance Sometimes students experience difficulty with a course not currently supported by our programs. If you need assistance and have already verified that your course is not supported by PAL or tutoring, please submit a request for course assistance. After you submit the completed request form, an ASC staff member will contact you with suggestions to address your needs. Possible options include: determining if a current tutor has already completed the course and can assist you assisting you with forming an independent study group connecting you with one of our academic coaches utilizing other campus resources For questions regarding course support, contact asc@clemson.edu. Home About the Center About the Class of 1956 ASC Awards Academic Advising Success Matters CU 1000 For New Students and Families For Faculty and Staff For Prospective Student Employees Contact Us Related Links Academic Advising Academic Eligibility Policy Academic Forgiveness Policy Center for Career and Professional Development Catalog, Undergraduate Courses Counseling and Psychological Services Libraries Majors Ombuds, Undergraduate Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Student Accessibility Services Undergraduate Studies Writing Center Downloads ASC Annual Report Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram