Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Brown University Global Health Initiative Framework in Global Health Program Brown University Global Health Initiative Framework in Global Health Program Global Health Scholarship The Framework in Global Health Program provides an opportunity to work on a critical global health issue impacting a low or middle-income country (LMIC).Successful applicants receive the Framework award to support global health research linked to Brown University faculty scholarly projects. Travel to conduct research will resume during 2021-2022, pursuant to Healthy Brown's travel guidance. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, students may also collaborate with Brown faculty members to design a research project that can be carried out remotely, including working with existing data when travel for primary data collection is not possible. Research focused on refugee and immigrant health issues may also be considered. Award: Up to $3,500 Spring Application Deadline: February 25, 2022 Eligibility Requirements An applicant must: be a Brown medical student; a graduate student in the Divion of Biology or the School of Public Health; a resident or fellow from a Brown affiliated hospital; an undergraduate in Brown's Program in Biology, concentrating in public health or in the PLME program. have a demonstrated interest and/or have engaged in activities related to global health. have taken or propose to take academic courses in preparation for global health work. have a proposed plan for global health work with a scholarly activity related to research, service, or advocacy. describe the Brown University faculty mentoring available for the proposed global health activity, and provide a required letter of support from the mentor. have a plan in place to submit for IRB approval (if required) be returning to campus the academic year following the completion of project. NOTES: Previous recipients of the Framework in Global Health Scholarship are not eligible to apply for a repeat award. The Framework Global Health Scholarship is not available to seniors who plan to graduate and leave Brown at the end of the spring semester. However, seniors who plan to remain at Brown (i.e.: PLME, 5th-year masters programs) ARE eligible. Application Materials Please complete online application, including all required documents by Feb 25, 2022 at 5PM EDT. Project proposal (5 pages max) including the following sections: title, location, name of foreign institution, dates of study period, objective and specific aims, background and significance, methods or clinical rotation, data collection procedures, plan for data analysis, plan for dissemination Detailed budget Letter of Support from Faculty Mentor* Letter of Support from Host Adviser Current CV or resume * Letters of support from advisors can be emailed directly to the Program Manager, [email protected] IRB Approval Does my project need IRB review? If your project involves human subjects (this includes data collection from living individuals through interaction or intervention, or data collection of identifiable, private information through secondary data analysis), Institutional Review Board (IRB) will be required before funds can be released. You must provide documentation that verifies approval by the respective IRB of the institution where the research will be carried out, if other than Brown University. Additional Information Those receiving Global Health Scholarships will be required to participate in regular group meetings with other Global Health Scholars and faculty both before and after the proposed activities. These activities include: Global Health Lecture Series Global Health Research Day Students should be prepared to focus on presentation of their activities, preparation of scholarly reports of their activities as theses or publications, and reports to the foreign host and sponsor institution. Framework receipents may be eligible to apply for GHI travel funds to present research findings from Framework projects at scientific meeting in the future, when travel resumes. For more information and questions, please contact program manager, Eileen Caffrey Wright. Tel: (401) 863-5003 [email protected] COVID-19 Information, Resources and Data A Brief History GHI Executive Committee Education International Collaborations Contact Global Health Scholarship GHI Programs International Emory Global Health Case Competition Pre-Travel Orientation Global Health Lecture Series Upcoming Events News Global Health Research Day Newsletter Print this Page Share this Page Global Health Initiative Brown University Box G-A2 Arnold Lab 91 Waterman Street Room 205 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1499 Fax 401-863-1848 [email protected] Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory @ Brown BioMed Alpert Medical School Public Health Program Population Studies and Training Center (PSTC) Watson Institute for International Studies Partners Brown Residency International/Global Health Training (BRIGHT) Pathway Brown University AIDS Program (BRUNAP) Brown-Kenya Moi Exchange Program