Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Apply First Year Homeschool Students Homeschool Students First Year Dates and Deadlines Early Decision Testing Admission Requirements Class Profile International Students Homeschool Students Request Information Self-Reported Test Scores Additional applicant types SMU happily accepts and reviews applications from students attending non-traditional high schools, including homeschools and online high schools. A student who has been home-schooled is subject to the same review as a student applying from a traditional high school (please follow the application instructions). We ask that all home-schooled students complete the Homeschool Supplement. The SMU Admission Committee makes the following additional recommendations for home-schooled students to help them be as competitive as possible in the admission process: Curriculum In our review of applicants, we like to see students challenging themselves academically. Regardless of which curriculum you follow, the committee would like to see, at minimum: Four units of English Three units of mathematics (suggested: Algebra I, Geometry, Algebra II) Three units of science (including two units of laboratory science) Three units of social science Two units of a foreign language (full two-year sequence) Please be aware that students who go above and beyond in the rigor of their academic curriculum generally have an advantage in the admissions process. The average number of core academic courses for an admitted student is 20 units. Official Transcript The admission committee will need something to help us measure your success as a student in your homeschool program. We understand that an official transcript may not be available. If this is the case, please submit a transcript with a consistent grading scheme and/or course descriptions including textbook titles so that we can fully understand your program and what was used to determine proficiency in each academic area. You can use the space provided on the Homeschool Supplement or provide a document in your own format. While not required, it may be beneficial to have your transcript notarized. Recommendation Letters As you will see on our application checklist, a counselor recommendation is required and a teacher recommendation is highly recommended. The counselor recommendation should come from the individual who has coordinated your educational experience and can provide information about the curriculum you used. The teacher recommendation can be completed by a teacher, tutor, or the advisor of an activity in which you participate. If you and your educational coordinator (i.e. “counselor”) feel that your application would be better served through your teacher/tutor recommendation, you are welcome to waive the counselor recommendation by submitting a statement. The wording for this statement can be as follows: I, [Full Name of Educational Coordinator], would like to waive my right to provide a counselor letter of recommendation for [Applicant’s Legal Name] on account that the teacher recommendation letter by [Full Name of Teacher/Tutor] is a better representation of the academic merits of this applicant. Under the terms of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), the applicant has waived his/her right to access the teacher’s recommendation form and letter. We understand that we may not be eligible to review or otherwise inspect the letter of recommendation prior to submission to SMU. Dual-Credit & AP/IB/SAT II Exams Many home-schooled applicants challenge themselves by taking dual-credit courses from local accredited colleges or recommended standardized exams. Because each homeschool experience is different, SAT II subject test and/or AP/IB scores and college-level courses can provide the committee with an additional measure of your ability in core academic subject areas such as English literature, math, and science. We look forward to working with you and reviewing your application for admission. Please feel free to contact Brenda Del Rio with any homeschool-related questions. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search