Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home The Office of Connected Learning Research and Creative Projects The Office of Connected Learning Events Community Based Learning and Research Global Initiatives Collaboratory Events Machine Information Room Reservations Digital Badges Inspiration and Contests Materials and Skills Policies & Code of Conduct Our Staff FAQ Student Opportunities Conferences & Presentations Fellowships and Cohorts Research and Creative Projects Student Research Opportunities Creative Projects Research Scholarships Research Fairs Get Published Research and Independent Courses Events Videos Husky Catalyst Initiatives Digital Scholars Program 2022-2023 Digital Scholars Cohort Learning Communities Connected Learning Excellence Award 2021 Excellence Award Recipients Contact Go to Sponsored Research Website Office of Connected Learning Research and Creative Projects Research and Creative Projects for Undergrads The Research and Creative Projects Office helps undergraduate students find opportunities to apply what they learn in classrooms to dive deeper into a field of their interest. All students are encouraged to participate in this high-impact practice. Doing research or having hands-on experience in creative projects boosts students’ chances for employment or enhances their placement into a robust program in a professional or graduate school. Upcoming Events Select display (list or summary) Student Research Benefits Students discover their passion and talents and continue to successful careers! Research projects can lead to scholarships and/or awards; projects look good on student resumes and graduate school applications. Research experience allows undergraduate students to better understand published works, learn to balance collaborative and individual work, determine areas of interest, and jumpstart their careers as researchers. Find Research at UW Bothell on Database If you are looking for ways to enhance your education, pad your resume, or just be a part of amazing projects then visit the UW Bothell Research and Creative Projects Opportunities Database. This database will help you connect with faculty who are actively looking for student researchers. Research Symposiums, Presentations, and Fairs Students are encouraged to present their research or creative projects throughout the year. The UW Seattle Undergraduate Symposium takes place every May and features student oral presentations, visual arts & design displays, or research posters. Applications to present are usually due in February (check our calendar!). At UW Bothell, most Schools have time to present at the end of the quarter with a research fair or capstone presentations. This is a great time to meet people with similar interests and practice presenting your research to a broader audience. It's time to celebrate! Learn more about research fairs. Get Published! Many students share and publish their work before they even graduate! We recommend starting with journals or publications dedicated to undergraduates. Looking a little broader, many local organizations and non-profits would love to publish your work in their print journals. Some students even author in peer-reviewed literature because of the research contributions they made working with their faculty mentors! Learn more about publishing. Research Scholarships & Awards Find existing undergrauate research scholarships. These awards, grants, and fellowships allow students to focus more attention and time on their research. Learn more about research scholarships. UW Undergraduate Research Leaders Undergraduate Research Leaders (URLs) are a group of outstanding undergraduate researchers from a variety of disciplines. The URLs conduct outreach activities in conjunction with the Undergraduate Research Program and are available to share their experiences with other undergraduates. This program is managed by UW Seattle and open to UW Bothell students Learn more about the URL Program! Picture caption: URLs Beverly, Billie, and Erica tabling during Admitted Student Preview Days RCP Drop in Advising Office hours: Have a question? Advising is provided weekly throughout the Winter Quarter: Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 9:00 am to 10:00 am. Join via Zoom. Click here to start the meeting. Come to Truly House to have a meeting with Jay Nawash, Interim Director, Undergraduate Research, Creative Practice and Merit Scholarships/Awards Remote RCP Advising Meeting with an advisor is easy! Appointments can be virtual or in-person. Make an appointment Connect with us! uwbur@uw.edu Facebook Instagram @uwb.urcp LinkTree Truly House 47.759598, -122.193003 How to Contact Faculty How to get involved in a Research or Creative Project: Step 1: Use the opportunities database to find a project that interests you. Step 2: Email the faculty contact. Example: Dear Professor Smith, My name is Jane Doe, and I am a pre-major freshman at UW Bothell. I was intrigued by your research project “Project Title”. I was drawn to this project because ___________. Would it be possible to meet with you to further discuss my potential involvement in your research? I am available these days and times. I look forward to hearing from you. Jane Doe Step 3: Check out all scholarship, event, and summer research opportunities. More Opportunities Visit the UW Bothell Undergraduate Research Database. To find UW Seattle opportunities from visit the UW Research database. Find a whole list of research opportunities within the UW system and additional summer opportunities. Visit the scholarships page. These awards allow students to focus more attention and time on their research. University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Office of Connected Learning Box 358565 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.3501 Fax: 425.352.5211 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbocl@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us