Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory French and Francophone Studies Undergraduate Concentration Program French and Francophone Studies Concentration Program THE CONCENTRATION IN FRENCH AND FRANCOPHONE STUDIES Overview The concentration in French and Francophone Studies is committed to the pursuit of an interdisciplinary, linguistically rigorous, and textually informed understanding of French and Francophone literatures and cultures. Concentrators engage actively through their coursework with a wide range of critical perspectives, pertaining to multiple literary genres, media, and contexts. They have opportunities to study different periods of French culture as well as Francophone cultures beyond France. The concentration program is designed to encourage and support language-specific study. Literary texts and cultural documents are read principally in the original. Likewise, in most courses, French is the language of class discussions, presentations and research/critical papers. Concentrators thus achieve advanced proficiency in the language. By the time they graduate, they will have learned to read with knowledge and nuance and will have produced a varied body of critical work in French. Our concentrators are strongly encouraged to spend one or two semesters (usually in their junior year) in France or in a Francophone country to derive the richest benefits of linguistic and cultural immersion. Along with close reading and attentiveness to cultural context, effective writing—i.e. writing that is clear, rigorous, informed, nuanced and persuasive—is considered a key skill for the concentration in French and Francophone Studies. Thus all courses offered by the department (starting at the 600--level) are writing-intensive, designated WRIT, which means that they satisfy the University’s Writing Requirement. In our courses students have the opportunity to write at least two papers, and receive substantive feedback and advice as they develop their writing. (All Brown undergraduates must complete at least one approved WRIT course by the end of their 4th semester, and a second WRIT course during their 5th-7th semesters.) Students who have performed outstandingly in their concentration courses, have completed at least six concentration courses by the first semester of their senior year, and are highly recommended by two professors, are eligible to apply for admission to the honors program. Concentration Requirements A minimum of ten courses is required for the concentration in French and Francophone Studies. Concentrators must observe the following guidelines when planning their concentration. It is recommended that course choices for each semester be discussed with the department’s Director of Undergraduate Studies. Of the minimum ten courses: • At least four 1000-level courses must be taken in the Department of French and Francophone Studies at Brown. • FREN600 (Advanced French) and FREN720 (First Year Seminar) may count for concentration credit; • At least one course covering a pre-Revolutionary period (i.e. a course focusing on medieval, Renaissance, 17th or 18th century France) is required; • At least one course focusing primarily on a Francophone literature or a cultural context other than that of France is required. Additional guidelines: A senior capstone project will be completed during the senior year. • Up to four courses (taken in French) from a semester’s study abroad (and up to five courses from a full year abroad) may count towards the concentration. A year or semester of study abroad in France or a Francophone country is considered an integral part of the concentration and is therefore highly recommended. Students should consult the concentration advisor prior to going abroad to find out which types of courses will count for the concentration. • Up to two 1000-level courses taught in English with a meaningful engagement with French/Francophone texts and/or contexts may be accepted for concentration credit. These may be courses offered within the Department of French and Francophone Studies or other departments at Brown. (Appropriate courses on French or Francophone topics from other departments must be approved by the concentration advisor.) The Concentration Advisor for the Department of French and Francophone Studies, Prof. David Wills (Spring 2022), will be happy to discuss the concentration program in French and Francophone Studies with interested students. Home Contact Information Office Hours News and Announcements Centre d'Excellence Rochambeau House Le kiosque d'informations Rochambeau (Le KIR) Current Events 2022-2023 Events 2021-2022 Events 2020-2021 Events 2019-2020 Events 2018-2019 Events 2017-2018 Events 2016-2017 Events 2015-2016 Events 2014-2015 Events 2013-2014 Events 2012-2013 Events Faculty and Staff Faculty Bookshelf Brown in France Language Placement Undergraduate Concentration Program Honors Program Language Program Revue Littéraire Senior Capstone Graduate Courses Resources Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with French and Francophone Studies Department of French and Francophone Studies Brown University Box Box 1961 84 Prospect Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3517 Fax 401-863-1669 french_francophone_studies @brown.edu Calendar Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected]own Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory