Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Faculty & Research Faculty Research Featured Topics Academic Units …→ Harvard Business School→ Faculty & Research→ Faculty Faculty Positions Wilbur Xinyuan Chen Doctoral Student Doctoral Student Read more Wilbur is a doctoral candidate at Harvard Business School and is broadly interested in the research fields of capital markets, the economics of digitization, corporate governance and equity valuations. His current research agenda studies the role of capital markets in the digital economy. And his recent papers studies (1) how capital markets view digitization in non-IT firms, (2) how capital market institutions shape digital investment in non-IT firms and (3) how digital technologies are changing competition between capital providers. Less +1 →Send Email Contact Information Send Email Publications Research Summary Working Papers Working Papers Chen, Wilbur, and Suraj Srinivasan. "Going Digital: Implications for Firm Value and Performance." Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 19-117, May 2019. (Revised July 2020.) View Details All Publications Wilbur is a doctoral candidate at Harvard Business School and is broadly interested in the research fields of capital markets, the economics of digitization, corporate governance and equity valuations. His current research agenda studies the role of capital markets in the digital economy. And his recent papers studies (1) how capital markets view digitization in non-IT firms, (2) how capital market institutions shape digital investment in non-IT firms and (3) how digital technologies are changing competition between capital providers. Working Papers Chen, Wilbur, and Suraj Srinivasan. "Going Digital: Implications for Firm Value and Performance." Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 19-117, May 2019. (Revised July 2020.) View Details Research Summary Overview Wilbur's research centers on three research themes: The Role of Capital Markets in the Digital Economy This topic of research is motivated by the rapid rise of digital adoption in firms across the economy and capital market participants’ growing interest in this phenomenon. My work studies how investors are responding to digitization, provides insights on the potential governance role that capital market institutions play in the adoption of digital technologies, and also explores how these technologies are changing competition between capital providers. Implications of Shareholder Engagement The increasing calls for more investor participation in corporate governance matters in the US and in some countries around the world, has led to questions on whether shareholder engagement can shape sound governance decisions in firms. My work studies shareholder engagement issues both in the US and internationally, and contributes to the question of whether greater shareholder engagement improves firm governance. Valuation of Business Reorganizations Business reorganization transactions, such as mergers, acquisitions and spin-offs, are often initiated based on the premise of value creation for shareholders. However, is this premise true, especially in the recent data? Due to the growing share of intangibles in corporate assets -- there is much uncertainty in the valuations of more recent reorganization transactions. Motivated by this uncertainty, my work studies the valuation implications of these transactions, and seeks to examine the drivers of value in these transactions. Additional Information About Me Personal Website CV Area of Study Accounting and Management Areas of Interest artificial intelligence capital markets corporate governance financial intermediaries valuation Additional Information About Me Personal Website CV Area of Study Accounting and Management Areas of Interest artificial intelligence capital markets corporate governance financial intermediaries valuation ǁ Harvard Business School Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College