Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Search < Back to Columbia Public Health Menu Program on Forced Migration and Health Training humanitarian aid workers to ensure more effective, informed, and consistent response. Facebook About Degree Programs Curriculum Program News Past Webinars People Faculty Staff Voices Research Contact Facebook Search You are here Home Program on Forced Migration and Health Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Public Health Recommendations for Processing Asylum Seekers PFMH and other public health experts issued a set of public health recommendations for processing individuals seeking asylum at the US southern border Knowledge Brief on Indirect Health Impacts of COVID-19 The first knowledge brief on COVID-19 and displacement has been released, focusing on the indirect health impacts of COVID-19. PFMH Action Hub on COVID-19 and Displacement The new Action Hub aims to equip policymakers, advocates, humanitarian actors and affected communities with public health evidence and resources. Research Program on Forced Migration and Health faculty lead and collaborate on research in complex emergencies and humanitarian settings across the globe. PFMH Action Hub on COVID-19 and Displacement The PFMH Action Hub provides public health evidence and resources to effectively respond to COVID-19 and protect vulnerable populations. Curriculum The Program on Forced Migration and Public Health offers a variety of courses to choose from. Check out our list here! Who We Are Juliana Bol, a new faculty member, is interested in evaluating the effectiveness, efficiency and impact of health system strengthening approaches. Featured Research Project This NCD Policy & Practice Series aims to collate and present innovative solutions that address the needs of people with NCDs. Close Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers