COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Music Performance - Vocal, Major MajorMusic Performance - Vocal All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Music A Bachelor of Music (BM) in performance—vocal emphasis—will help take your musical talent to a higher level. You'll train like a professional with acclaimed faculty. And you'll have the opportunity to dazzle audiences on campus and across the state's center of arts and culture. The degree is ideal for advanced study in music—and opens doors to successful performance careers locally, nationally and internationally. Learn how music performance - vocal is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the School of Music, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. Once you're admitted to WSU, you'll need to schedule an audition through the School of Music. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Opera star lets vocal music majors learn from the best As a vocal music student at Wichita State, you have an amazing opportunity to study with accomplished opera star (and WSU alumnus) – Alan Held. Held, an international opera star and one of the leading bass-baritone singing actors today, is the Ann and Dennis Ross Faculty of Distinction in Opera. Curriculum The BM in performance—vocal emphasis—degree combines courses in performance, history and literature of music, foreign language, WSU's general education requirements and more. In addition, all music majors must pass a piano proficiency examination. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Music Music (Minor) Music Theatre Music Education - Vocal Music Composition 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©