Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Conversations with ... Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the School of Public Health and his guests explore various perspectives on the COVID-19 pandemic. Watch now COVID-19 Communications Toolkit The COVID-19 Communications Toolkit is a free, public resource for anyone looking to communicate the importance of COVID-19 testing to communities across America Visit the site SPH COVID-19 Resources Healthy Brown Brown Takes Care Rhode Island COVID info For Graduate Students COVID-19 FAQs for Graduate Students Read More For Post-docs Guidance for essential and critical work for the Brown postdoctoral scholar community Read More For Researchers Process for Resuming Research Read More For Staff Policies and practices to promote the health, safety and well-being of all Brown employees Read More Community Resources Coronavirus Resources at Brown COVID-19 telephone hotline: 401-368-4828. This line is staffed 8:00am-4:00pm, Monday through Friday for inquiries from all faculty and staff members related to the COVID-19 test or to respond to other health-related inquiries Brown's COVID-19 Dashboard is updated regularly with results of routine asymptomatic COVID-19 testing on campus. Pandemics Explained unlocking evidence for better decision-making COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy Overview and Acknowledgement Phase 2 training in Workday Brown's COVID-19 Workplace Safety Policy (PDF) Center for Health Promotion and Health Equity (CHPHE) and Office of Diversity and Inclusion (ODI) Statement on Health Disparities and COVID-19 Social Impact of COVID-19: COVID-19 is amplifying economic, health, and social inequalities around the world. Coronavirus Resources from the Department of Epidemiology Coronavirus (COVID-19) Resource Hub, from the Watson Institute Essential Steps for Prevention and Care Frequently asked questions about testing and tracing Daily Update / Office Hours with Dr. Jud, Dr. Jud Brewer's YouTube channel Free Community Mindfulness Sessions Available Live Online or by Telephone International Travel Risk Management, from Global Brown Travel Restrictions regarding University-sponsored travel Children and COVID: how to help children through this stressful time, PDF from the Developmental Congitive Neuroscience Lab More support for remote education Additional Resources Virtual NIH activities How You Can Help from RI Dept of Health Guide to Local Resources from the RI Office of Healthy Aging (PDF) Rhode Island Department of Health Centers for Disease Control Volunteer opportunities through the United Way of Rhode Island Current Criteria for Testing Frequency A robust protocol of testing and contact tracing for all students, faculty and staff who are on campus regularly is serving as an essential element for supporting community health. See the most recent information on testing frequency Support & Wellness for the Brown Community To support you as you support our community, we have curated resources from Brown and beyond to help you navigate this unpredictable time. Find out More Recent Events Conversations with ... series For his Conversations with ... series, Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the School of Public Health, joins distinguished expert guests in conversation on various aspects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Delta Variant Discussion and Q&A August 10, 2021: Dean Ashish Jha, Dr. Paul Offit, and Helen Branswell discuss the Delta variant and its impact as the fall months approach Election Aftermath: Public Health in the US and the World November 5 and 11, 2020: Dean Ashish Jha and a panel of experts take stock of how the election outcome will impact public health, the economy, and health disparities in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic across the United States. Covid Today: Is America Really Ready to Re-Open? August 4, 2020: Incoming dean of the School of Public Health Ashish Jha and economist Emily Oster Decoding Covid: Health Disparities and COVID-19 June 8, 2020: Amal Trivedi, MD, MPH and Diana Grigsby-Toussaint, PhD, MPH Webinars from the Hassenfeld Institute October 21, 2020: "Supporting K-12 Students' Learning during COVID-19: Resources for Parents and Caregivers," featuring Nancy E. Hill, Ph.D., of the Harvard Graduate School of Education, and Nathaniel Schwartz of Brown's Annenberg Institute for School Reform. July 23, 2020: "Questions about Autism during COVID-19 and Beyond," featuring Stephen Sheinkopf, Ph.D., and Joanne Quinn June 25, 2020: Sleeping, Eating and Being Active: Healthy Routines for Kids during COVID-19 and Beyond May 14, 2020: Pregnancy and COVID-19 May 19, 2020: Children and COVID-19 How Racism, Economic Inequality, and Coronavirus Intersect June 2, 2020: Dr. Ashish Jha, incoming dean of the Brown School of Public Health, explores the ongoing collision of systemic racism, coronavirus, and economic catastrophe with the Watson Institute’s Trending Globally Podcast. Experts from Across Brown on COVID-19 April 14, 2020: Panelists Mark Lurie, Jud Brewer, Wendy Schiller, and Megan Ranney join moderator Adam Levine for a discussion on the current crisis. Alpert Medical School’s Decoding Covid Seminars The Division of Biology and Medicine’s series invites physicians and researchers to present virtual seminars related to the novel coronavirus and the present pandemic. COVID: What Comes Next with Dean Ashish Jha For this weekly Providence Journal podcast, Dean Jha analyzes the events of the previous days and offers his guidance on what lies ahead. Listen to the podcast COVID-19 Dashboard School of Public Health Experts in the Media Study: A third of Colorado's COVID deaths were vaccine preventable May 21, 2022 Read More With COVID cases rising, CDC issues new guidance. What Rhode Islanders need to know. May 20, 2022 Read More Pro-Trump counties continue to suffer far higher COVID death tolls May 19, 2022 Read More Don't go here even if it's open, Say virus experts May 18, 2022 Read More Unexpected long-term impacts of COVID-19 could affect male sex hormones May 18, 2022 Read More The new, highly transmissible Omicron variant, BA.2.12.1, is dominating in Massachusetts. Now what? May 17, 2022 Read More US deaths from COVID hit 1 million, less than 2 1/2 years in May 16, 2022 Read More This is how many lives could have been saved with COVID vaccinations in each state May 13, 2022 Read More COVID-19 Cases Rising In W.Va. May 13, 2022 Read More Read more School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top