Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook More Sign Ons... College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Main menu Main Menu About Administration Calendar Committees Departments and Centers Diversity Faculty & Staff Global Programs Lecture Series Satellite Campuses Alumni and Friends Alumni Relations STORIES Magazine Giving Research Research Highlights For Researchers Farms Students Student Services Majors Request Information Schedule a Visit Scholarships Careers Study Abroad Graduate Programs Online Learning Extension Extension Resources Ag and Natural Resources Secondary menu Research Highlights For Researchers Farms View CALS Research Mission Research & Demonstration Farms CALS Research Advances Researchers in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences at Iowa State University’s Ag Experiment Station advance knowledge through basic science and its application in the fields of agronomy, animal science, food safety, ecology, plant pathology and the social sciences, building on more than 130 years of leadership. The Experiment Station's work also supports research in other ISU colleges and in cooperation with scientists in other states and countries. CALS Research Strengths CALS ranks first out of 60 agricultural colleges for the number of faculty with federal research grants and third for the total number of federal grants, according to Academic Analytics comparisons (Feb 1, 2020). It also ranked second nationally for the number of faculty publishing findings in scientific journals. Nearly $56 million in external funding was received by CALS/Agricultural Experiment Station-supported faculty and staff in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. Nearly 65 percent of the funding came from federal agencies. Over the past five years, CALS has brought in $275 million in external funding, averaging more than $55 million per year. These discoveries and inventions frequently are patented and licensed for development into products and services: Research by CALS faculty and staff account for 80 percent of Iowa State University's 377 active technology licensing and option agreements (FY2020). CALS and the Ag Experiment Station received the largest share of royalty income at Iowa State for the last five fiscal years. Nine of the top 20 income-producing technologies at Iowa State came from research in CALS and the Experiment Station in the last two years. How our Research is Funded CALS Funding - Fiscal Year 2021 Total $55,352,000 Research Highlights ISU scientists receive $2 million, federal grant to advance research on blood stem cells Raquel Espin Palazon, assistant professor of genetics, development and cell biology, is leading an interdisciplinary research team examining a genetic pathway triggered when cells undergo inflammation due to injury or infection. Espin Palazon said the genetic pathway also plays an important role in the development of blood stem cells, or undifferentiated cells with the potential to develop into all human blood cell types. More. FFAR Awards $2 million for Sustainable Corn Research The Foundation for Food & Agriculture Research has awarded a $2,044,214 grant to Iowa State University to evaluate how maize breeding, field management and environment affect sustainable corn production. Led by Sotirios Archontoulis, associate professor of agronomy, the project will examine corn hybrid characteristics at an unprecedented scale to analyze yield trends in the U.S. Corn Belt. The project represents a $4,089,857 total investment, with additional funding from Iowa State, Bayer Crop Science, the Leopold Center for Sustainable Agriculture and others. More. NIFA awards $10 million for perennial groundcover research A diverse team of 18 scientists led by D. Raj Raman, Morrill Professor of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering at Iowa State, received a five-year, $10 million grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s National Institute of Food and Agriculture to study the potential environmental benefits afforded by perennial groundcovers, which grow every year without having to be planted or harvested, between rows of cash crops. More. CALS agronomists help lead COALESCE Iowa State University faculty in mechanical engineering and agronomy are part of the research team on the COALESCE – COntext Aware LEarning for Sustainable CybEr-agricultural systems, project, which is receiving a five-year $7 million Cyber-Physical Systems Award from the National Science Foundation and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's National Institute of Food and Agriculture. More. Current CALS Research News kitten Kinzenbaw gift provides support for research and student scholarships in agricultural and biosystems engineering May 26 Albaugh partners with Iowa Soybean Research Center at Iowa State University May 26 Breeding transforms sorghum’s potential as biofuel of the future for northern latitudes May 17 Iowa State University dedicates Stanley L. Balloun Turkey Teaching and Research Facility May 12 More research news Learn more about Research Supported by the Ag Experiment Station Research in Ag & Biosystems Engineering Research in Agronomy Research in Animal Science Research in Economics Research in Food Science and Human Nutrition Research in Genetics, Development, and Cell Biology Research in Natural Resource Ecology & Management CALS IN THE NEWS: Restaurants seek to drop PFAS Other Research Impacts Learn more about CALS Research Centers and Institutes Applied Research and Extension Office of Vice President for Research Research at Iowa State Research Farms 2022 CALS Report to the Council on Agricultural Research, Education and Teaching (CARET) College of Agriculture and Life Sciences 138 Curtiss Hall 513 Farm House Lane Ames IA 50011-1050 cals@iastate.edu (515) 294-2518 Facebook Twitter Instagram Vimeo STORIES Site Index Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility