Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Academic Affairs Bring Back Titans Main Navigation Academic Standing Show Extended I left in Good Academic Standing I left with Academic Difficulty Application Guide Tips for Coming Back Contact Once a Titan, Always a Titan Information for Returning Titans We miss you! Students leave the university for many reasons and return for many reasons as well. Your path to re-enrollment and continuing your educational journey begins here! If at any point along this process you have questions, please contact an advisor for assistance. Continue reading to determine which pathway best describes your situation and follow the links and instructions provided: If you have been out for just 1 semester: You are still enrolled! You don't have to re-apply. Follow the rest of the steps in this section. Visit your Student Portal to check for any holds you may have and your registration appointment dates. Instructions on how to resolve particular holds will be listed on your student home page. Visit the Academic Advisement Center or see a college advisor if you have questions regarding your readmission. Visit the Registration website for more registration information. At least eight weeks in advance, ensure your financial aid application on file is for the academic year you plan to return. You can fill out a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FASFA ) or California Dream Act (CDA) online. If you have been out for more than 1 Semester, choose a scenario that applies to you: I Left in Good Academic Standing What does this mean? Your CSUF and cumulative GPA are 2.00 or higher. For Financial Aid purposes: you were meeting Student Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP ) when you withdrew. I Left with Academic Difficulty What does this mean? You left on Academic Probation/Notice: Your CSUF and/or cumulative GPA is below 2.00; or You left on Academic Disqualification: Your GPA fell or is below the established minimum GPA by class level For Financial Aid purposes: your were not meeting Student Satisfactoy Academic Progress (SAP ) when you withddrew Did you file a Grad Check before leaving? For students who have already met Residency Requirements* for bachelor's degree completion at CSUF, and with fewer units needed to complete degree, please reach out to discuss the Reactivation Graduation Process with the Graduation Unit in CSUF Registration and Records at gradunit@fullerton.edu. Many students will complete remaining requirements through Open University at CSUF and applying for re-admission would not be required. *Residency Requirements for the degree refers to the number of units that must be completed in an admitted status at CSUF (30 units) and additional units in one's major that must be completed in an admitted status. This site is maintained by Division of Academic Affairs. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact officeofprovost@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.