Skip to content Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Find People Events Global Health Donate Search About Us About Us Explore VP&S Message from the Dean VP&S History Celebrating the Leadership of Lee Goldman Facts & Statistics 2021 State of the School Explore VP&S Leadership and Administration Campus Resources and Facilities Events Community Programs Contact Us Education Education Academic Programs Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Student Resources Office of Innovation in Health Professions Education Academic Programs MD Program MD Dual Degrees and Special Programs Program in Genetic Counseling Programs in Human Nutrition Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Physical Therapy PhDs in Biomedical Sciences Additional Master's Degree Programs Additional Educational Opportunities MD Program Join our MD program to become a physician with compassion, a sense of self, and true grit in all medical pursuits. Explore Our Program Research Research Office for Research Areas of Research Research Faculty Honors and Awards For Researchers For Researchers Core and Shared Facilities Research Resources Funding Areas of Research VP&S continues to be a world leader across the entire spectrum of basic science, translational, and clinical research Learn About Our Research Patient Care Departments & Centers Departments & Centers Affiliated Hospitals and Institutions Basic Science Departments Centers and Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Faculty Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Our mission is to provide world-class patient care, foster innovative research, and train the next generation of leaders in medicine. View Clinical Departments and Divisions MS in Genetic Counseling The Future of Genomic Medicine and Health Care You are here Home > Education > Academic Programs > Program in Genetic Counseling Academic Programs MD Program MD Dual Degrees and Special Programs Program in Genetic Counseling Who We Are Curriculum Admission Student Life Prospective Students Program FAQs Programs in Human Nutrition Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Physical Therapy PhDs in Biomedical Sciences Additional Master's Degree Programs Additional Educational Opportunities Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Student Resources Office of Innovation in Health Professions Education Program in Genetic Counseling Become a genetic counselor with compassion, a sense of self, and the skills to be a leader in genetic and genomic health care. The Columbia University Genetic Counseling Graduate Program curriculum combines basic science and clinical medicine with humanism and professionalism. Choose a one-size-fits-you experience with research endeavors, university-wide electives, and the VP&S Club: the broadest student activities organization for the arts, athletics, and community outreach in American medical education. The Columbia University Genetic Counseling Graduate Program is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Genetic Counseling (ACGC), located at 7918 Jones Branch Drive, Suite 300, McLean, VA 22102. ACGC can be reached by phone at 703.506.3266 or through their website. Prospective Student? Webinars, open houses, and practicums designed to help you explore the profession of genetic counseling and the pathway to practice. Learn more about these opportunities here. Professional Licensure and Certification Disclosure Institutions providing distance education are required to provide certain general disclosures for educational programs, regardless of modality, that prepare students for professional licensure or certification. The required information relates to whether or not the educational program meets the requirements for professional licensure or certification in all other states. Where applicable, an institution must also indicate when such a determination cannot be made. Professional licensure and certification requirements may vary state to state. This information is also subject to change. Students should contact the appropriate licensing agency for their home state to obtain the most up to date information. The Genetic Counseling Graduate Program prepares students for the American Board of Genetic Counseling certification examination and thereby does meet the academic requirements for certification in all 50 states. Curriculum Curriculum Admissions Admissions Student Life Student Life Tuition and Financial Aid Tuition and Financial Aid Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About VP&S Careers Education Research Administration Inside VP&S Columbia University Irving Medical Center Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Back to top