Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The Office of the Provost Show/Hide About People Communications Committees & Reports Policies & Procedures Initiatives & Resources Related Areas Initiatives & Resources About the Podcast Brown University faculty conduct consequential research across academic fields and disciplines. Faculty in Focus: The Podcast provides a glimpse into the work of some of Brown’s most compelling faculty members. Through interviews with Provost Richard Locke, professors demystify their work and offer insights into what sparked their interest and what continues to drive their curiosity today. It is one of many efforts intended to elevate awareness of the faculty and the work that they’re doing across campus that is making a difference locally and globally. Podcasts Faculty in Focus with John Friedman featuring John N. Friedman Professor of Economics and International and Political Affairs Biography In this episode, John Friedman discusses his research, which combines economics, big data, and public policy to understand why some children rise out of poverty and some do not. He’s particularly interested in measuring upward mobility - or what we call “the American Dream”- whether low income children grow up to earn more than their parents. His research is designed to inform powerful policy changes across the country, in specific neighborhoods, and on college campuses. Subscribe to Faculty in Focus on Apple, Sticher, and Spotify For more on the work John Friedman discusses in this episode, see this webpage, Google Scholar page and the following: NEW! The Opportunity Atlas: Mapping the Childhood Roots of Social Mobility October 2018 (joint with Raj Chetty, Nathan Hendren, Maggie R. Jones, and Sonya R. Porter See Also: Opportunity Atlas Interactive Maps, Non-Technical Summary, and Publicly Available Datasets Faculty In Focus with Diane Lipscombe featuring Diane Lipscombe Thomas J Watson Sr. Professor of Science, Department of Neuroscience and Director, Carney Institute for Brain Science Biography Diane Lipscombe runs the Carney Institute for Brain Science at Brown - a hub of researchers focused on developing scientific breakthroughs in conditions such as epilepsy, autism, and depression. In this episode, Diane talks about the want ad that transformed her life trajectory, how research about the heart informed her study of the brain, and what motivates her more than 30 years after her first job as a research assistant. Listen to the podcast Subscribe to Faculty in Focus on Spotify, Stitcher, Google Play or Apple Podcasts. Faculty in Focus: The Podcast featuring Tricia Rose Chancellor's Professor of Africana Studies, Director of the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America, Brown University Biography Recorded on September 20th, 2019 In this episode, with great humor and humanity, Professor Rose discusses the origins of her interest in hip-hop, the triumphs and trials she faced pursuing her field of study, and how she remains optimistic as she delves deeply into the causes and ramifications of persistent, systemic racism. LISTEN TO THE PODCAST Subscribe to Faculty in Focus on Spotify, Stitcher, Google Play or Apple Podcasts. Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Provost Office of the Provost Brown University Box 1862 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2706 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat