Skip to main content Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search University of Oregon Sites Search Site Navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University of Oregon Main navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Directions The University of Oregon is located in Eugene, a city of 163,400 at the southern end of Oregon's Willamette Valley. Eugene is served by a major airport, Amtrak rail service, and major bus lines. The University of Oregon is easily accessible from Interstate 5, the main north-south freeway along the Pacific Coast. Airlines Eugene Airport The Eugene Airport, conveniently located approximately ten miles from downtown and campus, is serviced by Alaska Airlines, Allegiant Air, American Airlines, Delta Airlines, and United Airlines and flights connecting from many major airlines. For information, call 541-682-5544. Ground transportation from the Eugene Airport includes taxi service, and ridesharing services. Eugene Ground Transportation Portland Airport Some visitors choose to fly into Portland International Airport, the largest airport in the state of Oregon, and drive two hours south to Eugene. PDX is serviced by 16 airlines, including most major carriers and Air Canada, Alaska Airlines, Boutique Air, Condor, Frontier Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, Icelandair, JetBlue, Southwest Airlines, Spirit Airlines, Sun Country Airlines, Volaris, and WestJet. Common transportation from the PDX Airport to Eugene: Groome Transportation Bolt Bus Train or Bus Amtrak Eugene (800) 872-7245 Greyhound-Trailways Eugene 541-344-6265 Lane Transit District Eugene's bus system 541-687-5555 Driving Directions From the Eugene Airport Follow Highway 99 until it becomes West Seventh Avenue. Get in the right lane and follow West Seventh Avenue until it becomes Franklin Boulevard. Get in the right lane and follow Franklin Boulevard to Agate Street. Turn right onto Agate and right again onto East Thirteenth Avenue. From Portland and the North From I-5 South, take Exit 194B onto I-105 West. Take Exit 2, keep left and follow the signs to the UO. Proceed in the left lane over the Ferry Street Bridge, exiting onto Broadway, which becomes Franklin Boulevard. Follow Franklin Boulevard to Agate Street. Turn right onto Agate and right again onto East Thirteenth Avenue. From Ashland and the South From I-5 North, take Exit 192 for OR-99/Franklin Boulevard toward Eugene. Continue under the I-5 bridge and merge onto Franklin Boulevard OR-99/126. From the Oregon Coast Take Highway 126 East until it becomes West Eleventh Avenue. Follow West Eleventh Avenue to Garfield Street and turn left. Take Garfield to West Seventh Avenue and turn right. Get in the right lane and follow West Seventh Avenue until it becomes Franklin Boulevard. Get in the right lane and follow Franklin Boulevard to Agate Street. Turn right onto Agate and right again onto East Thirteenth Avenue. From Bend and the East Take Highway 126 West through Springfield which becomes I-105 in Eugene after you cross over I-5. Take Exit 2, the Coburg Road exit ramp; keep left at the fork in the ramp. Go straight onto southbound Coburg Road, which becomes the Ferry Street Bridge. Stay in the left lane on the bridge, exiting onto Broadway, which becomes Franklin Boulevard. Follow Franklin Boulevard to Agate Street. Turn right onto Agate and right again onto East Thirteenth Avenue. CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions A–Z Index Find People Report a Concern TOOLS Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb RESOURCES Class Schedule Academic Calendar UO Libraries For Journalists University of Oregon 1585 E 13th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-1000 Contact Us Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Vimeo Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.