Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index School of Law Menu Search TTU School of Law Information Technology Location: Library 2nd floor Room 227 Office Hours: Mon - Fri: 8AM - 5PM* Sat - Sun: Closed *Closed for Event Support *Closed Holidays Phone:806-742-4897 Email: computersupport.law@ttu.edu Director for Information Technologies Gregory Roberts Information Technology Support Beixin Ni (Team Leader) Ryn Dunn Programming and System Administration Rebecca Espinoza (Team Leader) Paul Aguilar *Important ExamSoft Student Printing How To"s & FAQs Ask IT Main Campus Knowledge Base Main Campus IT Help Central Main Campus IT FAQ's MyTechLaw IT Training Teaching, Learning, and Professional Development Center (TLPDC) In person ShortCourses Skillport How to into O'Reilly O'Reilly For Higher Ed General Main Campus Safe Computing Midterm/Exam/Special Project ID's Law School Video Recordings Services Eraider (change password) Raiderlink (HR) Blackboard Login Blackboard Support Office 365 Portal Webmail Raider Card Deposits Guest Wireless Request Request Law School IT, Web and A/V Services Large File Transfer The IT staff maintain the Law School computing network, support information technology needs of the Law School community, serves the faculty, staff and students of the Law School with regard to computers, printers, and various mobile electronic devices. IT also provide Web and media services to the Law School. The following are a few examples of the kind of technology services available: Install computer hardware and software in the faculty or staff offices, classrooms, and computer labs in the library Assist the faculty, staff and students solve problems regarding user name/password, printing, computer hardware and software Support the technology and equipment in the classrooms, courtrooms and conference rooms, and assist the faculty and students in using such technology Help law students configure personal computers and devices to connect to the Texas Tech network Consult with law students about personal computer problems and recommend solutions when possible Monitor, evaluate and implement new IT technology and products for the Law School Lab computers are available 24-7 for law school students with the proper security access to the building Every study carrel is equipped with wired network ports and electrical outlets to support your laptop. In addition, there are numerous electrical outlets and open network ports throughout the law library and in the first floor classrooms There is wireless network access in every area of the Law School. This includes the Law School forum, the student break area, the immediate patio areas, and the second floor classrooms The Law School Technology resources, including Internet access, are available to all faculty/staff and students to support their educational and research needs. Each user shall be responsible for using Texas Tech University's (TTU's) computer services ethically and courteously. As owners of the computing systems, TTU and the School of Law have an obligation to ensure ethical use of the systems and maintain the right to monitor all academic accounts. All computer access must be consistent with TTU policies. Most users act responsibly, but on those occasions when a user acts unethically or irresponsibly, disciplinary measures will be taken. The following list of ethical standards governs all users of TTU's computing facilities. Courteous use applies at all times, for all users, and for all systems. Users may use only the computing resources they are authorized to use and only for the purposes specified when their accounts are issued or permission to use the resources (i.e., workstations) is granted. Disciplinary action will be taken against users who engage in activities including but not limited to the following: Use of computing resources for unauthorized or nonacademic purposes. Irresponsible use of accounts. Account holders shall be responsible and will be held accountable for ALL usage of their accounts. Keywords and passwords must be kept confidential to protect account holders and their files. Users shall not give, sell, loan, or in any way transfer their passwords to others. Attempted or actual use of TTU's computing resources for personal or financial gain. Unauthorized access or duplication of software or data belonging to others or to TTU. Reading another user's files, except by authorized System Management personnel in times of a security audit, is an invasion of privacy; using another's program or data without the author's permission is plagiarism. Each of the above is prohibited and shall constitute a violation of TTU policy. Unauthorized transportation of software or data provided by TTU to another computer site constitutes theft. Attempted or actual destruction or modification of the integrity of computer-based information, programs, records, or data belonging to TTU or other users. Attempted or actual use of the computing facilities to interfere with the normal operation of TTU's computing systems; or, through such actions, causing a waste of such resources (people, capacity, computer). Failure to respect the rights of other users. A user shall not hamper or deprive another of access to resources or encroach on another's use of computing facilities. Users shall consider the impact of their conduct on other users. Violation of federal or state laws, violation of the TTU's computer-use policies or the University's "Code of Student Conduct." Security is a serious issue. Your main concern will be protecting your network username and password. As a law student you will have access to many resources that are restricted to law student use, access to your personal information, and possibly sensitive information. Your print account is also tied to your username. Not protecting your login information is an open invitation for someone to print on your account. It is important you keep your laptop and home computer updated with the latest antivirus definitions and security patches. Here are some simple rules you can follow to help protect your system and files from a virus. If it looks too good to be true, chances are it is. Be careful of what you download and stick to reputable Web sites. If you get an email attachment from someone you don't know, don't open it. Delete it immediately, and empty your deleted items folder. Most emails that contain virus infected attachments have subject lines to entice you to open the attachment. (i.e. “You got to see this”, “You're our big winner”, “Hot babes”, “Your privacy may have been violated”, to mention a few common ones.) Be suspicious of unusual emails from people you know. Their email address may have been “spoofed.” You may also see attachments that are .zip files and password protected. This method is used to bypass antivirus filters. The body of the message is usually short and tries to arouse your curiosity. (e.g. “Is this you?”, “I can't believe you wrote this”, etc.) Automatic Anti-Virus Scanning: The computers in the Law School are protected with the latest version of Symantec Anti-Virus software. Although the software is set to real-time (immediate) scanning of files, it is always best to run periodic a scan. The scanning software has been set to perform an automatic scan overnight. Leave your computer on, but not logged in, overnight at least two days each week to ensure that the program has scanned the computer for virus problems. We also recommend that you scan your flash drives on a regular basis to prevent problem viruses from getting into the computer and damaging your files. Anti-Virus Software for your home computer: Symantec Anti-Virus software is freely available on the eRaider download site. Your Techmail email account will be the single point of contact between you and the Law School's faculty and administration. We DO NOT support NON-law school email accounts. The Law School uses Microsoft Outlook as the email software or Outlook Web mail access is also available (http://outlook.com/ttu.edu) so you can check your mail from any Internet browser. It is recommended that you keep your law school mail separate from your personal mail. If you forget your password, you will need to access your eRaider account to get a new password. Your eRaider account should be set up with a personal reminder and you can always change your eraider password at https://eraider.ttu.edu. You can also contact main campus IT Help Central at 806-742-4357 (742-HELP) for password problems. ... Google Technology News Feed iRobot revamps its robot vacuums' brains with the launch of iRobot OS - The Verge Hands-on video of iPhone 14 dummies confirms major design leaks - BGR Samsung tops its highest global smartphone market share in 5 years - SamMobile - Samsung news Apple May Announce AR/VR Operating System at WWDC Next Week, Trademark Suggests - Road to VR Google Pixel 7 prototype reputedly shows up on eBay - Engadget Contact ContactContact Contact Contact HeartHeart Give EventsEvents Event Calendar Contact Apply NowContact Apply Now Apply Now School of Law Like School of Law on FacebookLike School of Law on Facebook Follow School of Law on twitterFollow School of Law on twitter Subscribe to School of Law on YouTubeSubscribe to School of Law on YouTube Connect with School of Law on LinkedInConnect with School of Law on LinkedIn Address Texas Tech University School of Law, 3311 18th Street, Lubbock, Texas 79409-0004 Phone 806.742.3791 Email law@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 18, 2022 8:36 AM School of Law About Us School of Law About Us Back Our Story School of Law About Us Our Story Back Who We Are Mission Statement & Learning Outcomes Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Our Community School of Law About Us Our Community Back Faculty Directory Staff Directory Admissions School of Law Admissions Back Prospective Students School of Law Admissions Prospective Students Back Welcome Why Texas Tech Law Transfer and Visiting Applicants Diversity & Inclusion FAQs Recruiting Events and Virtual Resources ABA Required Disclosures Apply to Texas Tech Law School of Law Admissions Apply to Texas Tech Law Back Admissions Policy Application Process Apply Now Online Status Check Financial Aid School of Law Admissions Financial Aid Back Tuition Refunds and Payments How to Apply Scholarships Loans and State Aid Other Types of Aid Student's Rights and Responsibilities Admitted Students School of Law Admissions Admitted Students Back Welcome Pay Your Seat Deposit Online eRaider Account Campus Computing Resources Academics School of Law Academics Back Academic Resources School of Law Academics Academic Resources Back Academic Policies Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Raiderlink Honor Code & Student Handbook Faculty Directory 2021-22 Post-Tenure Review Staff Directory Information Technology Services Publications MyTechLaw Degree Programs School of Law Academics Degree Programs Back Doctor of Jurisprudence Dual-Degree Programs Concentrations Centers & Programs School of Law Academics Centers & Programs Back Center for Biodefense, Law, and Public Policy Center for Military Law and Policy Center for Water Law and Policy Office of Academic Success Programs Advocacy Competition Energy Law Program Legal Practice International Law Programs Public Service Clinics & Externships School of Law Academics Clinics & Externships Back Clinical Program Overview Regional Externship Office of the Registrar School of Law Academics Office of the Registrar Back Welcome Registration Information Exam Information Request a Transcript FERPA Degree & Enrollment Verifications Reordering Diploma Open Records Request Texas Bar Exam and MPRE Student Life School of Law Student Life Back Important Links School of Law Student Life Important Links Back Academic Policies Honor Code & Student Handbook Faculty Directory Staff Directory Title IX Life at Tech Law School of Law Student Life Life at Tech Law Back Meet Student Life Academic Support Student Support Public Service Student Organizations Advocacy Competition Teams Summer Public Interest Award Publications School of Law Student Life Publications Back Texas Tech Law Review Estate Planning & Community Property Law Journal Journal of Biosecurity, Biosafety, and Biodefense Law Texas Bank Lawyer The Sidebar Express School of Law Catalog Law School Video Recording Law School Events School of Law Student Life Law School Events Back Event Calendar Events@Law Submission Guidelines May 2022 Commencement Library School of Law Library Back Law Library Home Services School of Law Library Services Back Students Faculty Alumni Practicing Attorneys Visitors Research and Reference School of Law Library Research and Reference Back Electronic Databases Internet Resources Scholar Research Guide Series HeinOnline WestlawNext Intro to Legal Periodicals and Books SSRN ProQuest Congressional BNA Bloomberg Law Lexis Advance West Academic Study Aids Technical Services School of Law Library Technical Services Back Web Printing ILL Information School of Law Library Information Back Library Newsletter Map and Directions Floor Plans Other Area Libraries Job Openings Contact Us Careers School of Law Careers Back Home School of Law Careers Home Back Welcome Symplicity Students School of Law Careers Students Back Services MyTechLaw Employers School of Law Careers Employers Back Posting a Job Opportunity On-Campus Interview Programs Regional Interview Events Online Resume ViewBooks Rank Spread Alumni School of Law Careers Alumni Back Request a Transcript Job Search Resources 2022 Graduate Employment Survey Form Employment Statistics School of Law Careers Employment Statistics Back 2021 Employment Summary 2020 Employment Summary 2019 Employment Summary Alumni & Giving School of Law Alumni & Giving Back General Information School of Law Alumni & Giving General Information Back Resources for Alumni Texas Tech Lawyer Magazine Texas Tech Law School Foundation School of Law Alumni & Giving Texas Tech Law School Foundation Back Foundation Board Distinguished Alumni, Service, and Humanitarian Awards Giving to Texas Tech Law Alumni Association School of Law Alumni & Giving Alumni Association Back Alumni Association Awards Giving School of Law Alumni & Giving Giving Back How to Give Annual Giving Endowments Gift & Estate Planning Give Now MyTechLaw Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index ... ...