COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters May 26, 2022 — An interdisciplinary team from Wichita State University will participate in a $24 million state initiative to help rural and urban communities prepare for and recover from natural disasters. As passengers return, airline performance dips in Airline Quality Ratings May 11, 2022 — Domestic travelers returned to planes en masse in 2021, but airlines struggled to deliver them, and their bags, to their destinations on time, according to the annual Airline Quality Rating released today by Wichita State University. WSU design to modify planes for wheelchair access gets international recognition April 7, 2022 — A team from Wichita State University’s National Institute for Aviation Research has received international recognition for a design that would allow WC19 certified manual and power wheelchairs to be used as a seat on board commercial airlines. Published Wichita State chemists discover laser materials April 1, 2022 — What do you picture when you think of lasers? Laser pointers? Perhaps laser eye surgery or barcode scanners? Turns out there’s more to lasers than most people realize, and a Wichita State University chemistry team recently discovered a new series of laser material with potential commercial use. WSU's engineering grad program top 60 in the nation and highest in Kansas March 29, 2022 — In the latest U.S. News and World Report rankings of universities offering a Ph.D. in engineering, the College of Engineering at Wichita State University once again was ranked in the top 100 engineering graduate programs in the country and the only institution in Kansas to make it in the top 100. Wichita State president launches 'Forward Together' podcast March 10, 2022 — Wichita State University President Rick Muma has launched a new podcast, called “Forward Together,” where the president speaks with guests from throughout Shocker Nation to highlight the people and priorities that guide WSU. The podcast drops monthly, with the March edition releasing March 9. Some of the guests so far include Hollywood director Dean Hargrove, WSU basketball coach Isaac Brown and WSU research vice president Coleen Pugh. Air Force awards $100 million to continue WSU NIAR's B-1 Digital Engineering program On March 9, 2022, the B-1 System Program Office (SPO), Tinker AFB, OK awarded a six-year, $100 million follow-on contract to Wichita State University’s National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR) to continue the B-1’s Digital Engineering (DE) transformation. The National Center for Manufacturing Sciences (NCMS) helped form the strategic partnership and created a flexible contract structure, which allows NIAR and the B-1 SPO to adapt requirements real-time to meet critical warfighter needs. Eye Tracking Zoom Study: A WSU expert's perspective, and common classroom concerns March 8, 2022 — Ever wonder what other people are looking at during Zoom or WebEx meetings? Dr. Akmal Mirsadikov, who specializes in deception detection and eye tracking at Wichita State University’s W. Frank Barton School of Business, recently ran an exploratory study about how people interact on Zoom. WSU study of Wichita's litter shows room for improvement Feb. 22, 2022 — The Wichita Litter Study was borne from community concern about the number of single-use plastic bags floating throughout the city. The study focused on 12 small sites within Wichita municipal parks — two parks within each city council district; and the data, while concerning, was not altogether a surprise for the research team. WSU professor wins Alfred P. Sloan Foundation grant for work to assist the visually impaired Jan. 20, 2022 — The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation has awarded a grant of $243,922 to a Wichita State University researcher for his work on an app that will allow people who are visually impaired to read comic books, graphic novels and other digitized graphic materials on their devices. CubeSat mission patch contest highlights science programs at Wichita State Nov. 4, 2021 – Reaching for the stars and beyond, a CubeSat Mission Patch contest sponsored by Wichita State University and the Ad Astra Foundation aims to highlight WSU’s science and research programs to prospective students. Spirit AeroSystems, Wichita State announce National Defense Prototype Center Oct. 15, 2021 – Today, Spirit AeroSystems Inc. held a grand opening event and ribbon cutting ceremony for its National Defense Prototype Center (NDPC), a joint project with Wichita State University’s National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR). This new research center will significantly expand Spirit’s capabilities and production efficiencies in the defense and space market. WSU Center for Real Estate releases 2022 Kansas Housing Markets Forecast Series Oct. 13, 2021 — Kansas home prices will rise by 7.6% next year, according to the 2022 Kansas Housing Markets Forecast series published by the Wichita State University Center for Real Estate. Wichita State releases 2022 employment forecasts Oct. 13, 2021— Wichita State University's Center for Economic Development and Business Research has released an updated Kansas, Wichita, Kansas City and Topeka Employment Forecast. FAA awards $7.3 million to NIAR for additive manufacturing, advanced materials research Oct. 7, 2021 — The Federal Aviation Administration recently awarded $7.3 million to Wichita State University’s National Institute for Aviation Research for advanced materials research, providing significant funding for additive and other advanced manufacturing research programs, ranging from qualification and characterization to specialized programs that address specific technical challenges. 1 2 3 4 5 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©