COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Presidential Priorities Section Menu Office of the President Dr. Richard Muma bio Presidential Inauguration Presidential Priorities University Leadership President's Staff Task Forces Organizational Chart First Gentleman Rick Case Newsletters and Podcast Share Your Thoughts Wichita State University endeavors to build a stronger Kansas and a brighter tomorrow through our relentless commitment to the people, businesses, and economy of our state. As such, the university has adopted a strategic plan and vision to be one of the nation’s most innovative urban public research universities, known for providing impactful student experiences and driving prosperity for the people and communities we serve. Access and Affordabilty Wichita State is committed to helping families through access and affordability. 2021 PRIORITIES Provide an accessible, affordable and impactful higher education for all Kansans with increased community connections and networks. Proposed enhancements: Marcus Welcome Center, Clinton Hall, Hubbard Hall and Rhatigan Student Center. Diversify and develop our faculty and staff to better reflect our student body and region. Shocker Promise: Full tuition and fees for Pell-eligible families. Increase need-based aid. Supporting Businesses Wichita State will support Kansas businesses with a talent pipeline that meets employer needs. 2021 PRIORITIES Provide relevant applied learning experiences that match the needs of industry, agency, and community partners. Become a nationally recognized leader in digital transformation and SMART manufacturing. Explore establishing a Wichita State location in Chihuahua City, Chihuahua, Mexico. Growing Economic Prosperity Wichita State will increase economic prosperity with higher education that benefits the Kansas economy. 2021 PRIORITIES Support faculty-led interdisciplinary research initiatives (2020-2023). Support the needs of the region through the newly formed Strategic Engagement and Planning offIce. Continue the development of the Innovation Campus by attracting new partners and establish the Maintenance, Repairing and Overhaul (MRO) initiative. Continue developing and supporting innovation and new ventures. National Center for Aviation Training expansion. University Village: Enter into financially prudent public-private partnerships on university-owned property that provide services. Support Wichita downtown development via hospitality, culinary arts, and health sciences. Enhance professional development opportunities for faculty and staff. Learn more about our goals and values WSU Strategic Planning Site 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©