Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES ART, ART HISTORY, AND DESIGN ART Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ART 101 Visual Art and Creative Thinking (5) VLPA Explores how we observe/interpret our visual world. Introduces art and design terminology, techniques and analysis. Class sessions include short drawing, writing, critical thinking exercises, as well as lectures by visiting arts professionals and group activities. Ideal class for students exploring majors in Art, Art history or Design. View course details in MyPlan: ART 101 ART 102 Advanced Placement (AP) Studio Art: Drawing (5) VLPA Course awarded based on Advanced Placement (AP) score. Consult the Admissions Exams for Credit website for more information. View course details in MyPlan: ART 102 ART 103 Advanced Placement (AP) Studio Art: 2D Design (5) VLPA Course awarded based on Advanced Placement (AP) score. Consult the Admissions Exams for Credit website for more information. View course details in MyPlan: ART 103 ART 104 Advanced Placement (AP) Studio Art: 3D Design (5) VLPA Course awarded based on Advanced Placement (AP) score. Consult the Admissions Exams for Credit website for more information. View course details in MyPlan: ART 104 ART 105 International Baccalaureate (IB) Visual Art (5) VLPA Course awarded based on International Baccalaureate (IB) score. Consult the Admissions Exams for Credit website for more information. View course details in MyPlan: ART 105 ART 131 Alternative Approaches to Art and Design (5, max. 20) VLPA Presentation of process through which artists discover and translate ideas, feelings, and concerns into images or objects. Use of a wide variety of methods and approaches, from traditional to technological, to promote visual expression. Discussion and critiques leading toward better understanding the creative process. View course details in MyPlan: ART 131 ART 140 Basic Photography (5) VLPA Introduces theory, techniques, and processes of still photography in an artistic context. Emphasizes photography's creative potential. View course details in MyPlan: ART 140 ART 190 Introduction to Drawing (5) VLPA Builds basic drawing skills, develops understanding of primary concepts which relate to drawing and develops an understanding of the grammar or syntax of two-dimensional language. Students move beyond their current knowledge and abilities and link new skills, concepts, and understandings to creative expressing. View course details in MyPlan: ART 190 ART 191 Color Studies Studio (5) VLPA Lin Examination of color as a distinct visual phenomenon with investigations of its practical, theoretical, and illusionary aspects. Employs various media and materials in exercises and compositions that demonstrate properties of color structure, symbolism, and perception and the potential application to art and design. View course details in MyPlan: ART 191 ART 200 Artist Mindset (5) VLPA Where do ideas come from? How does the practice of art connect across disciplines? Promotes critical curiosity. Students gain experience evaluating images and developing ideas. Demystifies each individual's capacity to be an imaginative thinker, and dispels myths about what it means to be an artist today. View course details in MyPlan: ART 200 ART 233 Introduction to 3D4M: Glass (5, max. 10) VLPA This introductory studio course investigates the material glass and its applications in the fine arts. Examines historical, technical, and contemporary practices. Prepares students for further exploration with the material at the intermediate and advanced levels. View course details in MyPlan: ART 233 ART 240 Intermediate Photomedia I (5) VLPA Includes studio projects examining the expressive and conceptual uses of alternative photographic materials and techniques. May include and introduction to photography, large format, and studio lighting. Prerequisite: ART 140. View course details in MyPlan: ART 240 ART 241 Intermediate Photomedia II (5) VLPA Introduces the creative use of photographic digital workflow in the processing, cataloging, and printing of camera generated digital imaging. Examines a variety of manipulations and transformation of both photographic and non-photographic imagery, involving multiple programs, procedures, and hardware (Macintosh platform). Prerequisite: ART 240. View course details in MyPlan: ART 241 ART 242 Intermediate Photomedia III (5) VLPA Covers topics in digital imaging, including specialized output, interactive presentations, the moving image, and web-based works. Emphasizes creative exploration of both software and hardware tools and the possibilities of integration with other art media. Prerequisite: ART 140. View course details in MyPlan: ART 242 ART 245 Concepts in Printmaking (5) VLPA Introduction to contemporary printing methods such as monotype, monoprint, stencil, and photocopy. Survey of historical and current approaches to the art of printmaking. View course details in MyPlan: ART 245 ART 246 Works on Paper/Monotype (5) VLPA Introduces contemporary imaging methods, expands traditional drawing methods, and encourages relationship of content to structure. Introduces relationship of printmaking and painting to drawing through monotype methods. View course details in MyPlan: ART 246 ART 253 Introduction to 3D4M: Ceramics (5, max. 10) VLPA Introduces ceramic hand-building and wheel throwing techniques. Explores functional and conceptual considerations with clay in a contemporary context and art practice. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ART 253 ART 255 Making Meaning: Art and Mathematics as Embodied Practices (5) VLPA Jayadev S Athreya, Timea Tihanyi What does it mean to create meaning in the intersection of two disciplines? Explore, via projects of making, a continuing dialogue between art and mathematics. Focusing inquiry on diverse global cultural traditions of embodied making, thinking, and imagining, students experiment with mathematical ideas, such as geometry, symmetries, and algorithmic processes, in a variety of media including photography, textiles, and movement. View course details in MyPlan: ART 255 ART 260 Introduction to Contemporary Art for Interdisciplinary Practice (5) VLPA Introduction to recurring themes and practices in the visual arts. Moves beyond medium-based categories, surveying a diverse range of issues that motivate artists and create content in contemporary art. Examines the importance and influence of the visual arts in the larger context of contemporary culture and society. View course details in MyPlan: ART 260 ART 272 Introduction to 3D4M: Sculpture (5) VLPA Introduces three dimensional concepts in the production of art and a critical, formal vocabulary in the pursuit of individual expression. Offers an overview of materials and technical processes. View course details in MyPlan: ART 272 ART 280 Media, Time, and Technology Arts (5) VLPA Develops a "new genre" attitude toward exploration and research in contemporary visual arts, based on computer/ human interface and electronic technology. Includes performance art, environmental art, sound art, light art, video art, interactive installation, kinetic art, conceptual art. View course details in MyPlan: ART 280 ART 281 Art Makerspaces: Woodworking (2) VLPA The ideation process and creation of art and design require a strong knowledge of materials and equipment. Covers the knowledge and skill building in the medium of wood needed to turn concepts into reality. Recommended: No previous experience needed Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ART 281 ART 285 Introduction to New Genres (5) VLPA Develops abilities to generate ideas and translate concepts. Emphasis on questioning preconceived notions of the role of art in culture. History and practice of conceptually-based art, including installation, video, performance, and sound; challenges students to identify the appropriate form or medium to express ideas and content. View course details in MyPlan: ART 285 ART 290 Beginning Drawing: The Figure (5) VLPA Introduction to the human figure as historically traditional subject matter as well as an important component in self expression. Covers proportion, foreshortening, and composition. Prerequisite: ART 190. View course details in MyPlan: ART 290 ART 292 Beginning Painting (5, max. 10) VLPA Beginning oil painting. Prerequisite: ART 190. View course details in MyPlan: ART 292 ART 300 Photography and Extended Practice (5) VLPA Concepts and techniques of contemporary lens-based practices considered through discussions, image surveys, field trips, screenings, readings and critiques. Prerequisite: ART 240. View course details in MyPlan: ART 300 ART 301 Moving Images (5) VLPA Development and articulation of an individual, experimental, and critical approach to artistic studio practice using the moving image. Prerequisite: ART 240. View course details in MyPlan: ART 301 ART 302 Research and Exhibition Practice (5) VLPA Students expand their practice through experimentation with a variety of materials and presentation strategies. Completed work exhibited in spaces across the UW. One-on-one and group feedback. Prerequisite: ART 240. View course details in MyPlan: ART 302 ART 303 Art Systems: Installation, Performance, and the Structures of Presentation (5) VLPA Utilizing photo, video, critique, and exhibition skills, students learn the importance of art-making in today's culture. Introduction to installation and performance art. Investigates comprehensive systems and contexts in which art is produced and presented. Prerequisite: ART 240. View course details in MyPlan: ART 303 ART 333 New Materials and Processes in Glass (5, max. 15) VLPA Explores the process through which artists discover and translate ideas, feelings, and concerns into images or objects. Investigations include various glass forming methodologies and material properties. Topics rotate and may include mold-making, kiln casting, photo processes, mixed medial, cold fabrication, enamels, cold-working, hot glass practices, and sculptural applications. Prerequisite: ART 233. View course details in MyPlan: ART 333 ART 339 Photography (5, max. 15) VLPA Introduces a range of theories, ideas, techniques, and processes of still photography in a fine art context. Emphasizes photography's creative potential. View course details in MyPlan: ART 339 ART 340 Advanced Photomedia (5, max. 15) VLPA Explores the concepts and techniques of contemporary photographic practice, including non-traditional approaches to photography and related media. Explores 3-dimensional installation practices, collaborative projects, and the moving image. Examines the use and role of photography and related media in contemporary culture. Introduces how an artist's work responds to these contemporary issues. Prerequisite: ART 242. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ART 340 ART 345 Intermediate Printmaking (5, max. 25) VLPA Development of mature and personal statement within context of the print form through studio practice and group discussion and critique. Processes and media emphasis varies on a revolving basis. View course details in MyPlan: ART 345 ART 350 Printmaking Special Projects (5, max. 15) VLPA In depth study of a printmaking method such as sequential printing, multi-block printing, white-ground aquaint, or sugar-lift aquatint. View course details in MyPlan: ART 350 ART 351 Furniture Design and Making (5, max. 10) VLPA Introduction to furniture design and making. Covers history of furniture from 1850 to present and includes hands-on learning resulting in design and fabrication of three unique tables. No previous experience required. View course details in MyPlan: ART 351 ART 352 Furniture Design and Production (5, max. 10) VLPA Hands-on woodworking and furniture production. Includes development of technique and collaboration with fabrication shops and design professionals. Uses design drawing, model building, and full-scale construction prototypes as tools of communication. End-of-term exhibit places work on public view. View course details in MyPlan: ART 352 ART 353 Intermediate Ceramic Art (5, max. 20) VLPA Explores a variety of ceramic processes and conceptual development including: press and slip molds, glaze formulation, multiples and installation, tiles and bricks, intermediate wheel, time, space, and scale. Prerequisite: ART 253. View course details in MyPlan: ART 353 ART 355 Materials in Context for Interdisciplinary Practice (5) VLPA Focuses on exploring the meanings, uses, and visual/sculptural potentials of both traditional and innovative new materials, both natural and man-made. View course details in MyPlan: ART 355 ART 358 Alternative Approaches to Drawing (5) VLPA Expanded approach to drawing, blurring boundaries between drawing, performance, photography, sculpture, digital technology, and more. Examines drawing as a residue of a performance or action, its relationship to architectural space, the use of alternative materials, and drawing's potential to imagine the impossible. View course details in MyPlan: ART 358 ART 360 Topics in Studio Art and Practice (5, max. 25) VLPA Examines a variety of cutting edge, emerging, and interdisciplinary approaches in studio art and practice. Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: ART 360 ART 361 Critical Issues in Contemporary Art (5, max. 15) VLPA Surveys critical ideas in contemporary art practice. Includes lectures by nationally recognized artists to introduce a wide range of artistic positions and practices. Engages students with the major issues informing contemporary art and new modes of practice. View course details in MyPlan: ART 361 ART 365 Social Practice (5) VLPA Introduces overlapping territories of art and social practice, the practice of Socially Engaged Art. Focuses on environmentalism, consumerism, economies, society and culture, activism, and the place for creative practice in our contemporary life. View course details in MyPlan: ART 365 ART 372 Intermediate Approaches to Sculpture (5, max. 15) VLPA Explores a variety of processes and conceptual thinking used in the context of making sculpture. Topics rotate and may include work in wood, metal, found object, and other materials to create objects, installations, experiences, and fabrications. Prerequisite: ART 272 Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ART 372 ART 375 Interdisciplinary Visual Art Seminar (5) VLPA Interdisciplinary mixed studio and seminar course designed for Interdisciplinary Visual Art students working at an advanced level. Includes field trips to local exhibitions, guest artist lectures, studio visits, and readings, to situate student projects within the larger sphere of contemporary art. View course details in MyPlan: ART 375 ART 390 Intermediate Drawing (5, max. 10) VLPA Prerequisite: ART 290. View course details in MyPlan: ART 390 ART 392 Intermediate Painting (5, max. 10) VLPA Prerequisite: ART 290 and ART 292 View course details in MyPlan: ART 392 ART 393 Intermediate Painting Topics (5) VLPA Revolving topics in the study of painting at the intermediate level. Prerequisite: ART 392. View course details in MyPlan: ART 393 ART 395 The Creative Process: Strategies and Outcomes (5) VLPA Explores the nature of the creative process in the visual arts. Focuses on experiential learning through projects of ideation, experimentation, problem solving, editing, and creating narrative meanings. View course details in MyPlan: ART 395 ART 400 Interdisciplinary Visual Arts Senior Studio (5, max. 15) VLPA Labitzke Focuses on the development of exhibition quality artwork, culminating in a group show. Covers curatorial issues, installation, and presentation. Assignments are designed to strengthen oral presentation skills, artist's written statement, critiquing abilities, and ability to place work within a larger art historical framework. View course details in MyPlan: ART 400 ART 421 Time-Based Art (5, max. 15) VLPA Advanced course exploring time-based forms through critiques, discussions, lectures, screenings, field trips, and readings. Inclusive of video, sound, performance, and installation, but not limited to any single configuration or vocabulary of art. View course details in MyPlan: ART 421 ART 440 Senior Thesis in Photomedia (5, max. 20) VLPA Development of a coherent artistic theme or topic evolved over three consecutive quarters resulting in a finished thesis portfolio. Prerequisite: ART 340. View course details in MyPlan: ART 440 ART 450 Individual Projects in Printmaking (5, max. 15) VLPA Individual media study within the context of group discussion and critique. View course details in MyPlan: ART 450 ART 453 3D4M Senior Studio (5, max. 20) Includes individual studio work, seminars, source presentations, field trips, professional practices, and culminates with the BA thesis exhibition. View course details in MyPlan: ART 453 ART 457 Artists' Publications (5) VLPA Explores the potential of artists' publications as an experimental site of production and alternative exhibition space. Produces publication projects while simultaneously examining the history of artists' books, magazines, multiples, and zines through a combination of readings, lectures, discussions and field trips to library special collections. View course details in MyPlan: ART 457 ART 460 Advanced Topics in Studio Art and Practice (5) VLPA Advanced exploration of interdisciplinary approaches in studio art and practice. Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: ART 460 ART 480 Cross-Disciplinary Honors in Art (5, max. 10) VLPA Designed for Senior Honors students in the Division of Art and is a graduation requirement of the "BA in Art with Honors" degree. Taught on a rotating cycle by Division of Art faculty from all of the four options: Interdisciplinary Visual Arts, Photomedia, Painting & Drawing and Three-Dimensional Forum. Includes critiques, studio visits, discussion, readings, and interactions with visiting artists. Prerequisite: Art Honors students only. View course details in MyPlan: ART 480 ART 485 Alternative Contexts: Site Responsive Interventions (5) VLPA Focuses on experimental and conceptual approaches; examines the historical lineage of art interventions as a means of developing contemporary forms. Examines the ways sites are constructed spatially, socially, and historically. Students produce projects designed to interact with existing structures and situations. View course details in MyPlan: ART 485 ART 490 Advanced Drawing (5, max. 15) VLPA Study at an advanced level involving history, practice, and theory of drawing as an art form. Prerequisite: ART 390. View course details in MyPlan: ART 490 ART 492 Advanced Painting: The Figure (5, max. 10) VLPA Drawing and painting from the model. Prerequisite: ART 390; ART 393. View course details in MyPlan: ART 492 ART 494 Senior Seminar in Painting and Drawing (5, max. 15) VLPA Development of individuality in painting through creative exercises. Prerequisite: ART 393 View course details in MyPlan: ART 494 ART 496 Art Internship (1-5, max. 10) Internships in conjunction with Art faculty and partners in the large visual arts community. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ART 496 ART 497 Study Abroad-Studio Individual Projects (3-10, max. 20) VLPA View course details in MyPlan: ART 497 ART 498 Individual Projects - Art (2-5, max. 15) Independent projects in studio art. View course details in MyPlan: ART 498 ART 499 Independent Study in Glass (2-5) Independent projects in the Glass studios. View course details in MyPlan: ART 499 ART 501 Graduate Student Teaching Mentorship (2-5, max. 15) Independent study for graduate students to work under the direction of a faculty member as they prepare for and teach an undergraduate class. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ART 501 ART 512 Graduate Seminar (3, max. 9) View course details in MyPlan: ART 512 ART 515 Graduate Studio Photomedia (2-15, max. 60) Photomedia graduate studio and seminar, including readings, discussions, and studio critiques. View course details in MyPlan: ART 515 ART 550 Printmaking (3-15, max. 60) View course details in MyPlan: ART 550 ART 553 3D4M Grad Studio (2-15, max. 60) View course details in MyPlan: ART 553 ART 561 Critical Issues in Contemporary Art Practice (5, max. 10) Surveys critical ideas in contemporary art practice. Includes lectures by nationally recognized artists to introduce a wide range of artistic positions and practices. Engages students with the major issues informing contemporary art and new modes of practice. Prerequisite: Grads in Art, Art History or Design only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ART 561 ART 590 Interdisciplinary Graduate Seminar in Contemporary Practices (5, max. 25) Constructive forum for developing dialogue and critique in practicum-based setting. Professional development highlights the student's experience. View course details in MyPlan: ART 590 ART 591 Graduate Studio: Drawing (5, max. 15) Supervised studio for advanced-level students from various media-based disciplines designed to develop an interest in and familiarity with aspects of drawing. Utilization of various media. Discussion of historical and contemporary issues concerning drawing. View course details in MyPlan: ART 591 ART 592 Graduate Studio: Painting (2-10, max. 60) Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ART 592 ART 594 Graduate Seminar in Painting and Drawing (2-15, max. 15) Designed as a forum for the presentation and criticism of student work as well as for discussion of contemporary directions in visual art. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ART 594 ART 595 Master of Fine Arts Research Project (2-5, max. 10) An independent research project related to and informed by the MFA student's studio work. Final project form may be a lecture, slide presentation, or paper. View course details in MyPlan: ART 595 ART 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: ART 600 ART 700 Master's Thesis (*-) View course details in MyPlan: ART 700 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022