Chemical Engineering Professor Pursues Novel Methods of Treating Allergies, Flu Harvinder Gill won the university’s Barnie E. Rushing Jr. Distinguished Research Award. Read More» More Stories College of Education Receives $1.5M Grant to Train 400 Texas Special Educators The Virginia Murray Sowell Center for Research and Education in Sensory Disabilities will offer free intellectual and developmental disability dual diagnosis training across Texas using the grant from Texas Council for Developmental Disabilities. Read More» More Stories Texas Tech Celebrates May 2020 Graduates The full virtual ceremony, including commencement speech by former Texas Tech student and Super Bowl MVP Patrick Mahomes, is available here. Families of graduates also submitted video messages to show their love and support. Read More» More Stories Gift From Moody Foundation to Create World-Class Customer Experience and Innovative Student Learning Opportunities at Skyviews Restaurant Skyviews Restaurant will undergo renovations in the coming academic year after a generous gift. Read More» More Stories Media & Communication Graduate Reflects on Time as a Red Raider First-generation student Demetri Board, who will graduate with a bachelor’s degree in communication studies, was introduced to Texas Tech at a college education summer camp. Read More» More Stories Texas Tech Alumnus Creating a Healthier World During COVID-19 What started as a greenhouse plant sprayer found a second life as one of the nation’s leading surface disinfection tools with the help of a Jerry S. Rawls College of Business graduate. Read More» More Stories Texas Tech Alumni Association Building on Tradition It’s not too late to leave your legacy as part of the Frazier Alumni Pavilion Expansion. Help us complete this $6.2 million capital campaign by making your gift today! Read More» More Stories Red Raider Legacy Coloring Pages Need a fun summer activity for your little Red Raiders? Download these adorable Texas-Tech themed coloring pages. Read More» More Stories Texas Tech Today Monthly is an electronic newsletter produced by the Texas Tech University Office of Communications and Marketing. If you have questions or comments contact us at: Texas Tech University | 2500 Broadway, Lubbock, TX 79409 | 806.742.2011 | texastechtoday.feedback@ttu.edu. Jun 10, 2020