By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stay Safe Frequently Asked Questions More from this Section Support Resources for Students in Quarantine or Isolation Get Tested Disability Access and Inclusion Resources Stay Safe Pledge Faculty and Staff Public Health Guidance Resources Updates Frequently Asked Questions These Frequently Asked Questions are updated regularly. Please check this page often to ensure that you have the most up-to-date information. COVID Levels COVID-19 Vaccine Requirements Flu Vaccine Requirements COVID Testing COVID-19 Guidelines for Short Academic Programs Quarantine and Isolation Stay Safe Pledge Financial Assistance Facilities Considerations For Faculty and Instructors COVID Levels Link What is the masking requirement on campus? For all students, faculty and staff who are vaccinated and who have received a booster (when eligible), masks are required at all times during academic instruction (inclusive of classrooms, laboratories, libraries and lecture venues). Masks are also required during non-academic events and in certain facilities, as determined by a public health risk assessment. These exceptions will be communicated directly as appropriate, to include the installation of signage as required. Masks are strongly recommended when indoors on campus, and outdoors in the presence of others. For vaccine-exempt individuals (approved religious or medical exemption), or if you have not yet received a booster dose of the COVID vaccine: masks are required at all times and in all facilities while on campus, and while outdoors when in the presence of others. Are masks required at the JMA Dome? Masks are not required for JMA Dome visitors who have been fully vaccinated. Individuals who are vaccine-exempt or who have not yet been fully vaccinated must continue to wear masks, except when actively eating or drinking. Newborns to age 4 do not require a vaccination Effective Saturday, March 26, 2022, attendees are no longer required to demonstrate proof of vaccination or a negative COVID test prior to entry to the JMA Dome. It is possible that some performers scheduled to appear at the stadium in the future may require attendees to be masked, and we will communicate those requirements on a case-by-case basis. What are the COVID levels and how do I know if I am required to wear a mask? Please visit our COVID Level page for a full explanation of each COVID level and accompanying requirements. What are the specific criteria that trigger changes in the four-level masking policy at SU? The Syracuse University Public Health Team, in collaboration with local and New York State public health officials, will recommend adjustments to the campus COVID alert level. Adjustments are based on their ongoing assessment of campus and community testing data, contact tracing information, and other factors indicative of COVID prevalence and transmission within the campus community. The Public Health Team has not instituted absolute cutoffs for changing the mask policy, so that the university can be flexible in responding to how transmission is happening on campus. The team also considers how transmission is dispersed and the intensity of transmission on campus and in the community. For example, the appropriate measures to mitigate cases that arise from a single exposure event or may be very different than steps we take to exposures that are completely unrelated. How will the University community be notified of a change to the COVID level? The University’s COVID level and associated masking policy will be announced via the University’s emergency broadcast notification system and will carry the notice Mask Guidance Update. Moving forward, changes to the COVID level and associated masking policy will be announced the same way. If you haven’t done so already, please log into your MySlice account to be sure your Orange Alert settings are up to date prior to the start of the semester. In addition, when masking guidance changes, our community will also be notified through: campus email; text message; Twitter: @SUCampus and @SyracuseUNews Facebook: @SUCampus and @SyracuseUniversityNews Instagram Stories: @SyracuseU Syracuse.edu/staysafe and news.syr.edu Does this policy apply to visitors and contractors? Yes, any visitor to our campus – including guests and contractors – must follow the guidelines outlined for the COVID levels when on campus. COVID-19 Vaccine Requirements Link Why is the University requiring a COVID-19 vaccination for all faculty, staff and students accessing campus? Vaccination is the single most important step that we can all take to protect ourselves, loved ones, our campus and community from severe COVID-19 infection, hospitalization and death. A widely vaccinated community safeguards the health, wellness and safety of our students, faculty, staff and the surrounding community. Vaccination is a critical factor that will allow Syracuse University to return to more normal operations. If my vaccine is not on the World Health Organization’s list of approved vaccines, can I receive another vaccination in the U.S.? Yes, you can receive another vaccine 28 days after your previous vaccine was administered. If I had one dose of a vaccine in my country, can I get a second dose in the U.S.? If the same vaccine is available, you can receive your second dose in the U.S. If the vaccine is not available in the U.S., you will need to restart the vaccination series with the new vaccine 28 days after your previous vaccine was administered. Who is required to be vaccinated? All students, faculty and staff who access campus are required to be fully vaccinated and to receive a booster as soon as they are eligible. Flu Vaccine Requirements Link Who is required to get a flu vaccine? In consultation with the medical team at the Barnes Center at The Arch and the University’s Public Health Team, the University will again expect all members of our campus community who plan to routinely access campus during the 2021-22 academic year to receive the flu vaccine. Compliance with this requirement will be closely monitored. Vaccination continues to be the best protection against illness and obtaining the flu vaccine helps our community reduce the impact of respiratory illness and make early diagnoses of COVID-19 more likely. Where can I get a flu shot? The University is making flu shots available on campus through a series of flu clinics open to all students, faculty and staff. Flu vaccine clinics for faculty and staff are already scheduled. Vaccine clinics at the Barnes Center at The Arch for students are being scheduled. What should I bring with me when I get my flu shot? Please bring your SU I.D. card and wear a face mask when you visit the flu clinic. Students must also bring their pharmacy benefit card and health insurance card, as the flu shot will be billed to their insurance. Most health insurance companies cover the cost of a flu vaccine in full. Students who have a copay or medical charge applied will be billed accordingly. Please know ability to pay will not impact your access to services. Students actively enrolled in the Syracuse University Student Health Insurance Plan do not need to bring their insurance information. Faculty and staff should also print and complete the Flu Vaccine Consent Form [PDF] to bring with you. How do I provide my flu vaccine information to the University to meet this requirement? Please note, your flu vaccine must have been received after Aug. 1, 2021. Students: If you receive your flu vaccine through another medical provider or at a pharmacy, you can upload your proof of vaccination to the Patient Portal using the following directions: Log into the Patient Portal with your SU email and password. (You will be prompted to complete Microsoft’s Multi-factor Authentication in advance of accessing the Patient Portal if you have not done so previously.) Select “Upload” on the main menu. Follow the upload instructions Select “Flu Vaccine Documentation” from the drop-down. Add your proof of vaccination. Faculty and Staff: Please fill out the Faculty/Staff Attestation Survey. What do I do if I need a medical or religious exemption? Students with religious or medical exemptions: Visit the Patient Portal to download the Medical-Religious Waiver. Once completed, submit your waiver via the “Upload” option in the Patient Portal. Students who already have a medical or religious exemption on file do not need to take any further action. Faculty and staff: Please indicate your religious or medical exemption via the Faculty/Staff Attestation Survey. COVID Testing Link Is COVID Testing available on campus? Effective May 23, 2022, the University suspended on-campus testing operations. Symptomatic students in need of COVID testing services can make an appointment at the Barnes Center by calling 315.443.8000. Faculty and staff requiring a COVID test are encouraged to utilize a community provider, your primary care physician or an at-home COVID test. At-home tests are currently available free of charge from the federal government. If a student has test results obtained through another testing option, how do they submit them? Students can submit COVID-19 test results/documentation by logging into the Student Patient Portal. Log in using your SU NetID and password, click “Upload Forms,” select “COVID-19 Documents” and follow upload instructions. Quarantine and Isolation Link What is the isolation policy if I test positive? To learn more about quarantine and isolation protocols, please visit the Stay Safe COVID-19 Response Checklists webpage. Effective May 23, 2022, the University is providing isolation housing to Syracuse University students who live on campus (residence hall or south campus apartments). Students living in off-campus housing are responsible for making isolation accommodation arrangements at their own expense. If you are not a Syracuse University student but are living on campus as part of a summer 2022 program or conference, please contact your program director for further information. What do I do if I am exposed to a COVID positive individual? To learn more about quarantine and isolation protocols, please visit the Stay Safe COVID-19 Response Checklists webpage. To our students, if you find yourself in this situation, there are ample resources and supports available to you. To review how the University will support you if you’re exposed, please review the materials located on the Support Resources for Students in Quarantine or Isolation webpage. If a student tests positive for COVID-19, how will the University support that student and safeguard others on campus? If a student tests positive, the University will deploy its response protocol, which prioritizes the health of the student as well as the safety and well-being of the community. While isolated on-campus, the student will receive outreach from a Quarantine and Isolation manager to support all academic, health, housing and dining needs. For those students who are ill or asymptomatically positive, to the degree reasonably feasible, these isolated students will be encouraged to continue academic activities to the extent possible or be provided with academic accommodations due to illness. Professors will be notified of students who have to miss class for an extended period. Students impacted by COVID can continue their studies during the isolation and quarantine period with support from their faculty. Faculty are responsible for helping students keep up with the class so that they may rejoin at the end of their absence. This does not necessarily include remote class participation. Students with severe symptoms that make it impossible to keep up with their classes should contact Student Outreach and Retention for additional support at soar@syr.edu or 315.443.4357. What is the current protocol for checking in on students’ health and well-being in quarantine and especially in isolation? How frequent are check-ins? What do they consist of? Each student will have outreach from a Quarantine and Isolation (QI) manager—a Syracuse University Staff member—who will provide additional support and serve as the main point of contact for all non-medical and non-emergency related issues. QI managers are available afterhours and on weekends for the duration of quarantine or isolation. They reach out to students within 24 hours of being assigned to quarantine or isolation, and are responsible for facilitating all student services needs including facilities, food services, academic and logistical assistance (e.g. comfort items, how to get packages and deliveries, the process for being cleared by the Barnes Center for release). Students can obtain health and counseling services by calling the Barnes Center, and if they need to be seen in person they are provided with transportation to and from the Barnes Center from the quarantine or isolation site. Rooms are pre-stocked with shelf-stable snacks, drinks, condiments and plastic utensils. Meals are delivered to each isolation location and labeled with the student’s name. Students can order food for delivery, as long as they use a contactless payment method. Students can also have pharmacy items delivered by the Barnes Center pharmacy and the Bookstore. All students in quarantine or isolation are provided a detailed guide that includes: Contact information What to pack Quarantine or isolation procedures and policies Health, Wellness and Pharmacy information Food Services and outside food delivery information Laundry services and schedules, if applicable Facilities information, if applicable Academic information Information about engagement and activities Package drop-off and delivery Additional information about COVID-19 Why are some students who still test positive after five days still required to sleep in isolation housing while the University is allowing them to attend class and other essential activities? Students are approved to exit isolation if, after Day 5, their symptoms are resolved or resolving, as determined by Barnes Center health staff. According to CDC, NYS DOH and OCHD, such individuals may exit isolation but must wear a mask around others at all times through Day 10. Some individuals may need to isolate longer, depending on the progression of their symptoms. However, because masks cannot be worn while asleep, students who would be returning to an on-campus residence hall setting with a shared bedroom must remain in University-provided housing for the full 10 days. They will be able to leave isolation housing to attend essential activities but must continue to sleep in isolation housing. In all instances, students must adhere to masking requirements in all settings where masks can be worn (such as the classroom). Students are strongly encouraged to wear well-fitting masks, such as KN95. Why are COVID-positive individuals no longer required to isolate for the full 10 days? Following Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, New York State Department of Health and Onondaga County Health Department guidelines, the COVID-19 Response Checklists for students, faculty and staff have been updated to reflect the latest guidance on isolation and quarantine periods. For many students who test positive, the period of isolation may be shorter than in past semesters. As in the fall semester, fully vaccinated persons who are in close contact with someone who tests positive do not have to quarantine but do have to wear a mask for 10 days. As a rule, anyone exposed to a COVID-positive individual should get tested five days following exposure and watch for symptoms for a period of 10 days. Stay Safe Pledge Link Why am I required to notify the University of a positive COVID-19 test result if that test was not provided by the University? My medical information is supposed to be confidential! During a public health emergency, certain aspects of your medical information—including a positive COVID-19 test result—can be required to be shared with public health authorities, including the Barnes Center. Failure to notify Syracuse University of a positive test result may hinder accurate contact tracing and put your close contacts—including roommates, classmates and faculty—at risk of spreading the virus. Financial Assistance Link If I am experiencing financial hardship, is there financial assistance available for COVID-19-related expenses? The pandemic has created financial hardship for many in our community. Please know there may be financial assistance available. Please review information about emergency funding and complete the financial appeal for U.S. citizens/permanent residents or financial appeal for international students to apply. These requests will be reviewed quickly. Decisions are based on financial need and/or hardship. Facilities Considerations Link Can we add building signage reminding students to mask? We have installed signage across campus and in buildings reminding students, faculty, and staff to wear masks as required by our masking policy. If an individual feels that additional signage is needed in a particular building, please contact your building manager. What is the University doing to enhance cleaning and sanitation of common areas, residence halls and other high-traffic spaces? The University has already built out the infrastructure to comply with all Centers for Disease Control (CDC)-mandated cleaning and sanitation protocols, including increased cleaning of public spaces, bathrooms, HVAC systems and other components. Specifically, these include enhanced cleaning and sanitation of classrooms, laboratories, studios and performance venues, libraries, residence halls, dining halls, recreation spaces, gathering spaces and other high-traffic areas. The University utilizes disinfectants that have been identified by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as appropriate to eliminate the SARS-CoV-2 virus (cause of COVID-19). For information on cleaning and disinfecting efforts in work areas, please visit ehss.syr.edu/about/covid-19-information/work-area-cleaning-and-disinfecting/ Can air purifiers or small localized air cleaning devices be used by individuals on campus? Localized cleaning devices may be used, but any localized air cleaning or purification device brought onto campus for individual use must meet the following criteria: Device must be UL or ETL listed and able to be plugged into a standard 115 V outlet. Device must be mechanical filtration device (device with removable/replaceable filters) with an AHAM rating. Devices relying on electrical fields/ions/sorbents/photocatalytic oxidation are not acceptable due to inconsistent data on effectiveness and must not be used. Ozone generating devices are unacceptable due to negative health effects and must not be used. The individual or department procuring and bringing the device onto campus will be responsible for maintaining the device. For Faculty and Instructors Link Who can I call to clean my classroom or office space? Each classroom and department has been supplied with cleaning products so that students and faculty can sanitize their areas (desk or podium) when they arrive in the classroom. Hand sanitizing stations and disinfectant wipes are available immediately outside the classrooms and technology sanitizing supplies are available near the teaching areas. Departments, schools and colleges can continue to request these supplies using the COVID-19 Supply Request Form. The requested supplies will be delivered directly to you, generally within 24 hours of the request. The items available include, but are not limited to, cloth and disposable masks, Clorox wipes, sanitizing wipes, disinfectant spray and hand sanitizers. These supplies continue to be provided at no cost to you for use on campus. For more information on COVID-19 supplies, please contact Environmental Health and Safety Services (EHSS) at EHSS@syr.edu. What should I do if I am concerned about ventilation or air quality in a classroom?” We have reviewed the ventilation system for each classroom on campus. Each classroom is unique and we have implemented the most viable strategies to safely manage the ventilation in each building. The ventilation strategies include: Installing MERV 13 or higher filters whenever possible in building air handlers using return air from occupied spaces. Increasing outdoor air ventilation rates where possible and when outdoor air conditions are favorable. Deploying mobile combination UV-C and/or HEPA air cleaning systems in classrooms that have reduced air flow. If you have specific concerns regarding the operation or maintenance of the HVAC system please contact your Building Supervisor. What am I required to do to accommodate students in quarantine or isolation? Instructors with one or more students who cannot attend class due to COVID-related restrictions are required to assist those students so that they can resume participation in the class when their absence ends. Instructors are not required to provide remote instruction (hybrid participation) to these students, though they can if they want to. Instructors can record their classes if they wish, or they can provide course materials, assignments, etc. via e-mail and periodically check in with the students. What should I do as a faculty member or instructor if I test positive? Requirements for quarantine or isolation have changed. Please review the updated COVID-19 Response Checklists. If you cannot teach due to illness, quarantine or isolation, you should make arrangements for continuity in your course as you would for any health issue. This may include, but is not limited to, teaching remotely, finding a substitute to meet class, inviting a guest speaker relevant to the course, or arranging alternative activities for students – faculty are best positioned to know what course of action is most appropriate for their courses and students. What should departments do to cover classes if faculty need to miss class due to illness? Faculty who cannot teach in person because of isolation requirements may teach their courses online if they feel well enough. If they don’t feel well enough to teach, then deans and department chairs should employ the approaches they have always used when faculty become incapacitated. What resources are available to faculty and instructors regarding managing expectations about mask wearing? Instructors and teaching assistants are invited to review updated tips from the Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence and the Office of the Dean of Students for setting and managing expectations in instructional spaces, managing difficult behavior and awareness of the role that stress or trauma may play in that behavior. Instructors may ask students to leave their class and should report any belligerent, aggressive or violent behavior to Community Standards (formerly the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities) at studentconduct@syr.edu. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy