Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY DENTISTRY DENTAL ELECTIVE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 DENTEL 510 Careers in Dentistry (1) Provides students with knowledge in a wide array of topics relating to a successful career in dentistry. Seminars featuring experienced dentists and experts from different fields will inform students regarding the business side of dentistry and will serve as resources as students face challenges in the dental field. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTEL 510 DENTEL 512 Ethics Journal Club (1) This course will expose students to the impact of recent developments in biomedical research, which they discuss in an interactive journal club atmosphere. It is open to 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th year Predoctoral students and Graduate students in the UW School of Dentistry. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTEL 512 DENTEL 513 Ethics Publication Review (1) Students will develop, write, and submit a peer reviewed journal submission. Prerequisite: DENTEL 512 Ethics Journal Club or Advance Permission of the Course Director Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTEL 513 DENTEL 520 Global Oral Health (1, max. 6) Provides an overview of global health inequalities and the burden of oral disease worldwide. Students will be introduced to international health care systems and the social, political, cultural, behavioral and economic factors influencing them. The course will use case studies with interactive student participation to analyze the impact of oral health on the public health system at a country level. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTEL 520 DENTEL 530 Research Methods Seminar (1) Provides terminology and concepts related to different aspects of dental research. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTEL 530 DENTEL 660 Elective Service Learning Rotation (6, max. 18) Students serve in an off-site community or tribal dental clinic, and provide care to underserved patients under the guidance of a preceptor dentist. Students work in a real-life dental setting and serve as a member of the dental team. Provides an understanding of community-based dental clinics and experience working in a dental office. Prerequisite: DENTGP 655; fourth-year dental student; good academic standing; and satisfactory progress towards completing required clinical competencies. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTEL 660 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022