COVID-19 UH Updates skip to Main Content Home Directory MyUH Work at UH Apply Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr Youtube Campuses dropdown menu column 1 Overviews Universities Mānoa Hilo West Oʻahu column 2 Community Colleges Hawaiʻi Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Maui Windward column 3 Distance Learning UH Education Centers Continuing Education Community Colleges Attend dropdown menu column 1 Overview Degrees and Programs column 2 Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition UH System dropdown menu column 1 About UH Strategic Directions Policies and Procedures Title IX column 2 Leadership Board of Regents System Offices A-Z Stewardship of Maunakea column 3 UH News Emergency Post-Pandemic Hawaiʻi and UH column 4 Support UH UH Foundation UH Alumni Relations Make a Gift Privacy Statement UH System » Privacy Statement The University of Hawaiʻi (the “University”) is committed to protecting the privacy and accuracy of confidential information to the extent possible, subject to provisions of state and federal law. This Privacy Statement discloses the privacy practices for www.hawaii.edu, the main University of Hawaiʻi System website (this “Website”). By using this Website, you are consenting to our collection and use of information in accordance with this Privacy Statement. If you do not agree with this Privacy Statement, please do not use this website. Please note that websites for schools, centers, departments and other units within the University of Hawaiʻi system may have their own privacy statements. You should review the privacy statement posted on other University of Hawaiʻi websites when you visit them. What personal information do we collect? This Website may collect usage information including the following: Internet Protocol (IP) address of computer being used or other unique identifier for your computer, mobile device, or other technology used to access the Website; Web pages requested Referring web page Browser used Operating system used Date and time Length of visit Websites you visited immediately prior to this Website. The usage information and device identifiers are used to update and refresh University websites, and identify repeat users, to enhance your online experience and tailor content to your interests. Such usage information is typically non-identifying; and, if such usage information becomes identifying, it is treated as personally identifiable information (“PII”). This Website may also collect PII that you provide to us including the following: First and Last name Email address Phone number How do we collect information? Cookies This Website uses “cookies” in order to deliver web content specific to individual users’ interests, to understand and save your preferences for future visits, or to keep track of online purchasing transactions. Cookies are small files that are stored on a user’s computer. Cookies are used to recall your specific information on subsequent website visits, simplifying the process of recording your information, allowing you to use customized features, and serving as a convenience feature to save you time. Cookie settings can be adjusted in your browser and users can instruct their browsers to refuse all cookies entirely. If you choose to decline cookies, you may not be able to fully experience the interactive features of Website as there may be certain features that are only available through the use of cookies. Google Analytics This Website uses a tool called Google Analytics to collect information about the use of this site. For information on how Google Analytics handles user data, see Google’s privacy policy: https://policies.google.com/technologies/partner-sites. You can prevent Google Analytics from recognizing you on return visits to this site by disabling cookies on your browser. Web forms This Website may collect information through the use of web forms. These forms may require you to provide information such as contact information when completing the form. How do we use the collected information? Communication. The University may use information collected from this Website for the purpose of communication back to individuals who contact us via the site. Improving This Website. The University may use browser-IP-address information and anonymous-browser history to report information about site accesses and for profiling purposes. This information is used to improve Web presentation and utilization. IP address information may also be used for troubleshooting purposes. Providing a Service. The University may use the information you provide us for the performance of a service you have requested. How is collected information shared with others? The University will not sell personal information collected by this Website to third-party organizations. The University will not disclose, without your consent, personal information collected about you by this Website, except for certain explicit circumstances in which disclosure is required by law. The University may share information that does not personally identify you without restriction. What if you are located in the European Economic Area? If you are located in the European Economic Area, please visit https://www.hawaii.edu/uhdatagov/GDPR_Privacy_Notice_10.4.18_Accessible.pdf for additional information about ways that the University of Hawaiʻi, including this website, may process your personal data and your rights regarding your personal data under the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”). What happens if the privacy statement changes? This Privacy Statement was last revised in May 2022. We may change this Privacy Statement at any time and for any reason. We encourage you to review this Privacy Statement each time you visit the website. What about privacy on other websites? This website may contain links to other websites. Some of those websites may be operated by third parties. We provide the links for your convenience, but we do not review, control, or monitor the privacy practices of websites operated by others. We are not responsible for the performance of websites operated by third parties or for your business dealings with them. You are solely responsible for reviewing the privacy statements for any linked external websites to understand how those websites may collect, use, and share your information. Therefore, whenever you leave this website we recommend that you review each website’s privacy practices and make your own conclusions regarding the adequacy of these practices. How to contact us? If you have questions or comments about this Privacy Statement, please contact us by visiting this page on our website: https://www.hawaii.edu/contact/ Last modified: May 20, 2022 Changing lives through higher education. Apply Now Universities Mānoa Hilo West Oʻahu Community Colleges Hawaiʻi Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Maui Windward UH Athletics UH Mānoa Hilo Vulcans Support UH UH Alumni Relations UH Foundation Our Ten Campuses UH Mānoa, UH Hilo, UH West Oʻahu, Hawaiʻi CC, Honolulu CC, Kapiʻolani CC, Kauaʻi CC, Leeward CC, Maui College, Windward CC and selected education centers are located across the Hawaiian Islands. Choose from the list to get more information on each campus. Click on map to enlarge. 2444 Dole Street Honolulu, HI 96822 An equal opportunity/ affirmative action institution Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy copyright © 2022 University of Hawaiʻi Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr YouTube Contact UH If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request. Get Adobe Acrobat Reader Calendar Directory Emergency Information MyUH Privacy Statement Work at UH About UH Attend Campuses Degrees and Programs Leadership Offices Back To Top Submit