Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application Destination Iowa State Destination Iowa State Registration Form Program Schedule Program Evaluation Team Leader Information Orientation Contact Us Your Cyclone adventure starts here. Discover all that Iowa State has to offer at Destination Iowa State. Take the next step in your transition to Cyclone life. This action-packed event takes place prior to the start of classes and provides you with an opportunity to: Make connections Team up with fellow new students and take on the adventure together. Journey through Iowa State with your Team Leader, an experienced upper-class student. Explore campus Travel throughout campus and discover your new favorite café, study nook, or hammock spot. Prep for classes Find your classrooms, learn about technology, and set your mind toward academic success. Experience traditions Create Hilton Magic, find Lancelot and Elaine, and meet Cy. Join Cyclone Nation Become a part of the Iowa State community and take advantage of the Cyclone Nation network. Be well. Be safe. Be resourceful. Discover resources and plan for ways to keep you and your fellow Cyclones safe and well. Destination Iowa State Fall Starting classes in August? Destination Iowa State will take place the Thursday–Saturday before the start of classes. Summer entry students also join this program. Destination Iowa State Spring Starting classes in January? Destination Iowa State will take place the Friday before the start of classes. View schedule of events Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...