Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Menu Search TTU Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Inclusive Election Support Resources Engaging in the election process as an advocate, ally, and activist is a part of civic duty. The efforts by many during this process is important in staying informed on local, state and national levels. We recognize that the months and days leading up to and after an election involve a lot of energy, emotional labor and personal sacrifice in the commitment towards equity and justice. We compiled various resources and community support spaces for faculty, staff and students that will occur throughout the month of November. Our existence and being is critical to advancing the continued work of diversity, equity and inclusion, we hope that you will provide space for your individual well-being and come together as a community. Student Campus Resources Student Counseling Center (SCC) The TTU Crisis HelpLine (806-742-5555) is available 24 hours a day for any student in immediate crisis. The phone counselors are knowledgeable about our services and, in addition to providing immediate help, can facilitate ongoing help with the SCC. If a student calls our main office (806-742-3674) during business hours M-F 8-5 and is in noticeable distress, our support staff will transfer the call to one of our SCC counselors or transfer to the Crisis HelpLine if counselors are in a session. Student Counseling Center (SCC) SCC Crisis Intervention Services Campus Inclusion Resource Team & Incident Reporting File a Report Here The CIRT serves to connect students affected by acts of bias to appropriate University resources and support, and to inform education and outreach efforts that promote a safe, inclusive learning environment for all Red Raiders. Office of the Dean of Students Reporting Incidences & Concerns The Office of the Dean of Students leads an effort focused on non-academic matters affecting student life, student success, and student learning. The Office of the Dean of Students is dedicated to encouraging student responsibility and leadership. Office for the Student Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct - Provide Supportive Measures & Reporting The Office for the Student Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct can provide supportive measures during this time that include letters of support for missing courses on election day and post-election. You can report incidences of sexual misconduct, interpersonal violence, harassment, and discrimination to Case Managers and CARE Coordinators that provide students with an individualized support plan, discuss reporting options and the formal grievance process. Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion - We are here for you! The Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion is here for you! Our staff is available to meet with individuals that want to talk about diversity, equity, social justice, inclusion and other related topics and experiences. Connect with us through in-person appointments and virtual appointments. Please wear a mask if meeting in person. Want to speak with someone or schedule an appointment? Call 806-742-7025 Doak Hall, 101 Diversity@ttu.edu Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) offers: Drop-In Support with RISE Graduate Students - Students can schedule a short appointment with a RISE graduate student to learn about campus and community resources, ask questions, etc. This is not counseling, but just another opportunity for a student to get connected with someone who cares. To schedule an appointment, a student should follow the links below. Schedule an appointment with Jacob Schedule an appointment with Emma Drop-In Support with RISE Peer Educators – Starting 11/5 at 11am, The RISE Peer Educators are offering drop-in support for students. Registration is required and available here. You can also point a student to the RISE social media pages for links to register. Family Therapy Clinic | Human Sciences 164 │ 806.742.3074 For more information or to request an appointment, call the Family Therapy Clinic (806.742.3074). The Clinic Coordinator will ask for basic information about you and your concerns. Based on your needs, a therapist will then be assigned to work with you. In most cases, the 1st appointment will be scheduled the same week that you call. Fees are based on a sliding scale and start at $10 per session. Psychology Clinic | Psychology 111A │ 806.742.3737 The clinic offers a broad range of outpatient mental health services, which include individual therapy, family therapy, couples therapy, and group therapy. The Psychology Clinic does not offer crisis or same-day services and fees are based on a sliding scale. Faculty & Staff Resources Employee Assistance Program Employees who are experiencing personal problems are encouraged to seek the private and confidential services of the EAP whose staff of trained professionals are committed to providing quality counseling and assistance for individuals, couples, families, and work groups. The Office of Equal Opportunity The Office of Equal Opportunity (EO) upholds each institution's anti-discrimination and anti-retaliation policies and ensures that employees and applicants of the Texas Tech University System are treated fairly, equally and respectfully. Campus Inclusion Resource Team & Incident Reporting The CIRT serves to connect students affected by acts of bias to appropriate University resources and support, and to inform education and outreach efforts that promote a safe, inclusive learning environment for all Red Raiders. File a Report Here Office of the Dean of Students - Reporting Incidences & Concerns The Office of the Dean of Students leads an effort focused on non-academic matters affecting student life, student success, and student learning. The Office of the Dean of Students is dedicated to encouraging student responsibility and leadership. Teaching and the Election Resources Teaching Around the Election: Flexibility, Acknowledgement and Other Strategies Teaching and the Election Sustain Learning through Current Events https://www.facultydiversity.org/support https://www.adl.org/education/resources/tools-and-strategies/9-ways-to-teach-about-the-election-a-social-justice Community Resources StarCare of Lubbock 806.740.1421 | 1950 Aspen Ave. Psychiatric evaluation, medication management, rehabilitation, substance use services, hospital, 23-hour Extended Observation Unit, outpatient clinic, mental health first aid, youth empowerment, and more. Call to inquire about services. StarCare Crisis Line 806.740.1414 800.687.7581 Lubbock County Elections Office The Lubbock County Elections Office offers information regarding voting, polling locations and reporting any issues or concerns when casting your ballot. (806) 775-1339 Lubbock Police Department In the event of an emergency, please dial 911. Anyone who believes there is a threat of violence should call 911. The non-emergency number is (806) 775-2865 . National Resources Campus Election Engagement Project National Institute for Civil Discourse Define American 5 Ways to Manage Politically Induced Stress ACLU Voter Know Your Rights Campus Events Student Intersectional Leadership Council: General Body Meeting – Tues., November 3 | 6pm-7pm – Virtual, https://zoom.us/j/96550744466 SILC will be hosting their bi-weekly update meeting. We will also be kicking off Indigenous Peoples' Heritage Month. Student Intersectional Leadership Council: Latinx Heritage Month Committee – Wednesday., November 4 | 5pm-6pm – Virtual, https://zoom.us/j/94083600171 Hear from Chief Accounting Officer, Bruny Rios, as she speaks to her experience as a LatinX executive at Dell Technologies, lessons learned along the way, and what students can do now to better prepare themselves for their first internship/professional position. IGNITE! Living Authentically: Promising Allyship for Transgender & Gender Non-Conforming Identities – Wed., Nov. 4 | 2:00-3:30 p.m. - Virtual Practicing Allyship to LGBTQIA people has many positive impacts on the well-being and inclusion of all members of our community. This session will focus specifically on the practice of Allyship with transgender and gender non-conforming individuals through supporting them in being their authentic selves. Participants will learn about the distinctions between gender expression, gender identity, and biological sex, as well as about gender-inclusive pronouns and cisgender privilege. Participants will also brainstorm ways of practicing Allyship in their everyday lives. We will also make space to process and discuss how the political environment can inform our practices of allyship. Dream Resource Center: Self-Care Workshop – Wed., November 4 | 4pm-5pm – Via Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/94869807368 The Dream Resource Center is hosting a self-care workshop for students who are DREAMers or have mixed-family statuses. We would love to have you join us for an hour of self-care strategies, presented by John Purcell from the Student Counseling Center! Queer/Trans Students of Color Affinity Space (QTSOC) - Wed., November 4 | 7:30-8:30 p.m. - Virtual The Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement recognizes that systemic racism, homophobia, and transphobia disproportionately impact LGBTQIA students of color. The Queer/Trans Students of Color Affinity Space is one way for the Office to support our LGBTQIA students of color. This week, in addition to general conversation, the facilitators will lead a discussion on post-election self-soothing, self-care, and community-care. We ask that individuals only participate in this affinity space if they self-identify as both BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, person of color) and as LGBTQIA+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer/questioning, intersex, asexual). Learn more about the group at the Office webpage. Feel free to direct any questions to Office administrator Stephen Chao. Mentor Tech Hangout “Coffee & Conversations” – Wednesday, November 4 | 5:30-7:30 p.m. – Virtual Mentor Tech will be hosting it's 4th Mentor Hangout this semester and is inviting both Mentors and Protégés to join. We will be highlighting self-care techniques, as well as navigating community building and network of supports. Contact Mica Curtis-Wilson at mentor@ttu.edu to register. Community Healing Spaces – Thursdays beginning November 5 | 5:30pm-7pm – Virtual, Register Here, Registration is required The community healing space is a place for Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) in conjunction with the broader Texas Tech Community to come together and process the effects of societal “isms”, obtain valuable resources, explore strategies for self-care, and share education on how to move forward as a unified and thriving campus community. Tree Food: Forests, Indigenous American Cuisines and Native Food Sovereignty – Thurs., November 5 | 7:30pm Virtual, Register Here First-Gen REcharge series (as part of First-Gen Week) - Nov. 8 - Nov. 13 As part of First-Gen Week, the Tech community is invited to attend events focused on well-being and self. http://www.depts.ttu.edu/diversity/FGTMP/FirstGenWeek/events.php 11/9 Self Care Monday w/ the Counseling Center 2pm - 3pm | zoom link 11/10 Yoga In the Park 9am - 10am | zoom link 11/11 Meditation | 10am - 11am | zoom link 11/12 Yoga In the Park | 9am - 10am | zoom link Forest Restoration Theory and Practice Based on Indigenous Cultural Tending Lecture – Thurs., Nov. 12| 7:30pm Virtual, Register Here RISE - Self-Care in 2020 – Tuesdays at 2pm | Virtual Austin Wade and Brittany Todd host weekly skill building groups focused on coping with the stress of 2020. Groups are held on Tuesdays at 2pm. To register, a student can email Brittany.Todd@ttu.edu for a Zoom link. RISE - Wreck ‘Em Wednesdays –Tolerance & Navigating Difficult Conversations Video Resource RISE hosts Wreck ‘Em Wednesdays on Instagram each Wednesday. Tolerance and navigating difficult conversations were discussed last week and the link to the video is here. Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Like Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on FacebookLike Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Facebook Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitterFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitter Subscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTubeSubscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTube Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on InstagramFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Instagram Address P.O. Box 5024 Lubbock, Texas, 79409-5024; Admin Building, Suite 233 Phone 806-742-7025 Email diversity@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityNov 3, 2020 2:05 PM Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Back About the Division Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About About the Division Back Meet our Team Faculty & Staff College Students Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About College Students Back You Belong Here Contact Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Contact Back Contact Us Report A Bias Incident Divisional Units & Committees Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back Programs & Services Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back AVID First Year Experience Mentor Tech Military & Veterans Programs First Generation Transition & Mentoring Programs (FGTMP) TTU Chess Program McNair Scholars Program TRIO - Student Support Services University Interscholastic League Raider Education Department (RED) The Student Intersectional Leadership Council (SILC) Women & Gender Studies Centers and Offices Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back Black Cultural Center College Connect Dream Resource Center Office of Institutional Diversity Office of LGBTQIA Committees Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back President's Council on Diversity & Equity RAISE Committee (formerly Hispanic Serving Institution) Alumni Community Heritage & Culture Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Heritage Months Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Hispanic Heritage Month Fall Pride Week Indigenous People's Heritage Month International Education Week Black History Month Women’s HERstory Month Asian, Pacific Islander, Desi, & Arab Heritage Month MLK Celebration 2022 Diversity Week Culture Celebrations Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back El Grito Juneteenth African American Lecture Series Latino Hispanic Lecture Series Graduation Celebrations and Convocations Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Black Convocation Hispanic Convocation Asian, Pacific Islander, Desi & Arab (APIDA) Convocation Lavender Graduation MVP Stole & Recognition Ceremony Hispanic Serving Institution Week Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Hispanic Serving Institution Week Resources Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Resources & Publications Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Camps Support – COVID-19 Student Affairs COVID-19 Resources Inclusive Election Support Resources DACA Resources Publications & Reports The National Registry of Diverse & Strategic Faculty Inclusive Language Terminology Funding Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Scholarships Multicultural Student Scholarships Awards Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Accolades and Recognition Spotlighting Award Winners Celebrate Diversity Awards Banquet Diversity & Equity Awards Students Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back K-12 Academic Areas of Inclusion Raiders Rojos Family Support-COVID-19 News & Events Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News & Events Back News Events Calendar Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News & Events Events Calendar Back TTU Men of Color Initiative - "The Chat" Culture Fest 2020 Black Women in The Academy Discussion & Recognition Celebrate Diversity Awards Banquet 2020 Spring Faculty Search Committee Workshop Women's History Month - Juju Chang Hispanic Serving Institution Week Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index