Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Information Science and Technology Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Information Science and Technology Major Apply Visit Request More Info Information Science and Technology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Information Science and Technology Major Hone you analytical and critical thinking skills and learn how to apply innovative solutions to complex technology and systems problems with the Bachelor of Arts in Information Science and Technology and the Bachelor of Science in Information Science and Technology at Temple’s College of Science and Technology. Coursework for both degrees focuses on the design, development, testing and documentation of information systems. You’ll be well-positioned for a career as a database administrator, network analyst, or web and application developer. The Information Science and Technology BA and BS undergraduate degrees are completed over 123 credit hours. You’ll become proficient in programming languages; working with computer graphics, databases and web technologies; and understanding operating systems and system architectures, such as distributed and network systems. Both degrees provide the foundation for you to explore career opportunities and advance in the field. You’ll take a capstone course over two semesters, intended to give you real-world experience with professional organizations. Graduates work in government agencies, hospitals, pharmaceutical companies and schools. You’ll be prepared to pursue master’s and doctoral degrees in multiple areas of information science and related disciplines. A tight-knit community of faculty and students makes up the program. You’ll be able to research with faculty in areas such as collaboration technologies, computer interaction and ethics, and human-computer interaction. Choosing between the BA and BS The Information Science and Technology BS degree requires between 72 and 76 credit hours. The curriculum includes classes that dig deep into technical development, including four advanced Information Science and Technology electives. Comparatively, the Information Science and Technology BA degree requires 60 credit hours, with the flexibility to take classes offered through the College of Liberal Arts. Classes & Curriculum As an Information Science and Technology Major, you will broaden your knowledge with a combination of elective and required courses. The first two years cover fundamental concepts in mathematics, operating systems and programming. Advanced courses cover such topics as complex problem analysis, software engineering and databases. These courses may vary depending on the degree type. Some of the courses for the BA in Information Science and Technology include 12 required Computer and Information Sciences courses; 2 required laboratory science courses; and 2 required mathematics courses. Some of the courses for the BS in Information Science and Technology include 12 required Computer and Information Sciences courses; 4 required Information Science and Technology electives; 2 required laboratory science courses; and 2 required mathematics courses. Find out more about required courses for both the BA and BS. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PSM Computer Science MS Computational Data Science MS Computer and Information Science PhD Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Information Science and Technology MS Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science Information Science and Technology Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Academic Advisors College of Science and Technology faculty advisors guide you in choosing courses for your degree program and help you navigate your time at Temple. The faculty advisor for the Information Science and Technology Major is Cindy Li, associate professor in the Department of Computer and Information Sciences. Phone: 215-204-2940 Email: xli@temple.edu Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Information Science and Technology BA and BS degrees. Gene Kwatny is a professor and the vice chair of the Department of Computer and Information Sciences. He is also the director of Computer and Information Sciences undergraduate programs. Phone: 215-204-1679 Email: gene.kwatny@temple.edu Cindy Li is an associate professor and faculty advisor in the Department of Computer and Information Sciences. Phone: 215-204-2940 Email: xli@temple.edu Jamie Payton is an associate professor and the chair of the Department of Computer and Information Sciences. Phone: 215-204-1237 Email: payton@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations in the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with professionals or scientists in your field of study and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 prehealth clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance your academic study and social life by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Computer and Information Science students may be interested in the following clubs and organizations. The Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields. The Association for Computing Machinery promotes the academic, professional and social development of students interested in computer technology. The Association for Computing Machinery for Women provides support and advocacy for women pursuing careers in technology. Leadership, Education and Development in Science empowers Philadelphia middle school students to take an interest in STEM through mentor-led science experiments. TU Dev is a community of students with a mutual interest in software design that fosters discussions on emerging trends and technologies in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-IST-BS Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Information Science and Technology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info