Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Classics Home About People Academics Undergraduate Program Study Abroad Research & Travel Funding Academic Prizes Departmental Undergraduate Group Brown Classical Journal Graduate Program Courses Diversity & Inclusion News Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Recent Graduates Site Navigation Home About Office Hours Contact Information Faculty Bookshelf The Couch Library Stay Connected [email protected] Intranet People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Visiting Scholars & Fellows Graduate Students Staff Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Academics Undergraduate Program Study Abroad Research & Travel Funding Academic Prizes Departmental Undergraduate Group Brown Classical Journal History Submission Guidelines Graduate Program PhD Programs Classics Sanskrit Track Ancient History Reading List MA in Classics Graduate Student Symposia Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement Courses Classics Greek Latin Modern Greek Sanskrit Diversity & Inclusion Diversity Statements News The Occasional Classicist Stay Connected Events Annual Lectures & Events Latin Carol Celebration Past Classics Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Past Volumes Recent Graduates Class of 2020 Class of 2021 Academic Prizes Undergraduate students at Brown are eligible for numerous annual academic prizes, including: The Lafayette Sabine Foster Prize in Ancient Greek: derived from the income of a fund bequeathed in 1880 by the Hon. Lafayette Sabine Foster, of the class of 1828. This prize is awarded annually to the student who passes the best examination in the ancient Greek language, the examination to cover the first, third, sixth, and twenty-fourth books of Homer's Iliad or the oration On the Crown by Demosthenes. The Minnie Helen Hicks Prize in Classical Appreciation: instituted in 1953 from income of the Minnie Helen Hicks Prize Fund, this prize is traditionally awarded to a student who writes an outstanding senior Honors thesis on a Greek topic. The Lucius Lyon Prize in Latin: derived from the income of a fund presented in 1893 by Mrs. Caroline L. Lyon, in memory of her husband, Lucius Lyon, of the class of 1844. The prize is awarded on the basis of a special examination relating to any or all of the following subjects: the Latin language, Latin literature, and Roman history. The examination is one part sight translation and one part essay. The James Aldrich Pirce Prize: awarded from the income of a fund established in 1927 by Miss Florence Pirce in memory of her brother, a member of the class of 1892. The prize is traditionally awarded to a student who writes an outstanding senior Honors thesis on a Roman topic. The President Francis Wayland Prizes: derived from the income of a fund presented in 1842 by President Wayland, and later increased, these prizes are awarded each year to those members of the freshman class who upon examination are found to excel in preparatory ancient Greek and Latin. The David Pingree Prize in Ancient Science and Intellectual History: instituted by Isabelle Pingree and Brown University in 2011 to honor the distinguished career of her late husband Professor David E. Pingree, University Professor and Professor of the History of Mathematics and of Classics at Brown University until his death in 2005. This prize is awarded to the Brown undergraduate from any concentration who presents the best paper in a given year dealing with the rigorous intellectual traditions of the ancient and medieval world and their textual sources (including mainly, but not only, ancient Greek, Latin, Sanskrit, Arabic, and Akkadian). The Workman-Driscoll Premium: honors the memory of Francis M. Driscoll, '65, and his faculty mentor, John Rowe Workman, Professor of Classics at Brown (1947-1985), and it is awarded to that senior Classics concentrator who best exemplifies the ideals of service to Brown Classics, Brown University, and/or the wider community embodied by Driscoll and Workman in their time at Brown. Academics Undergraduate Program Study Abroad Research & Travel Funding Academic Prizes Departmental Undergraduate Group Brown Classical Journal Graduate Program Courses Department of Classics Department of Classics Brown University Box 1856 48 College Street Providence, RI 02912-1856 Phone: 401-863-1267 Fax: 401-863-7484 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top