Emergency Notification More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Emergency Preparedness Home About Emergency Preparedness Search this Site Home About Emergency Preparedness Individual Preparedness Emergency Procedures Common Hazards Emergency Communications Emergency Resources Create a Departmental Emergency Plan Quick Links DartAlert Registration DartAlert FAQ Safety & Security College Health Services Environmental Health & Safety Sexual Abuse Awareness Dartmouth Emergency Medical Services New England Center for Emergency Preparedness Inclement Weather Ready.Gov New Hampshire Red Cross Communications@Dartmouth.edu Home > Emergency Communications Communication is key to ensuring the safety of students, faculty, staff, and administration during an emergency. This involves effectively providing information to you as well as monitoring developing events in a rapidly changing environment. How We Plan to Communicate with You Dartmouth has several channels through which information will be made available to during an emergency, including: The DartAlert notification system: Landline, Email, Cell Phone, and Desktop The Dartmouth home page This web site The Dartmouth Daily Updates (D2U) campus announcements system Outdoor Mass Notification System What You Can Do Register for DartAlert and download DartAlert Desktop. Review information regarding common hazards and emergency procedures for Hanover and Dartmouth. Review the Department of Safety & Security safety tips. Remain calm and go about your normal activities. Be alert to suspicious activity, and be prepared if the worst happens. If you notice unusual activity or something that doesn't look quite right, please report it to the Department of Safety & Security at (603) 646-4000. Be alert for news and instructions. Pay special attention to physical security (do not prop doors open; lock doors that have access to sensitive areas such as residence halls, laboratories, computer equipment, etc.). Make it a practice to communicate with friends and family about your daily schedule and plans. Review suggestions from other organizations listed to the right. Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 11/5/21