HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation MANAGE MY ACCOUNT MY.CLEMSON MAPS Campus Maps Parking Space Map Long-Term Visitor Parking Short-Term Visitor Parking FORMS BikeShare Release Form Carpool Permit Application Departmental Guest Permits Departmental Space Reservation LEV / EV Employee Permit Application Payroll Deduction Election/Termination Form Special Event Parking Request Tiger Transit Rental Request Vendor Permit Application FAQ CONTACT US PARKING/TRANSIT: Football game day information Will you be in Clemson during the game? If you have a vehicle parked on campus or plan to drive a vehicle on campus or around town this weekend, read the following information and heed the warnings to avoid the expense and frustration of your vehicle being towed from a space designated as reserved football parking. If you are interested in general information, please see the Clemson Athletics website. If you live or work on campus, please see below. Here’s what you need to know: Reserved lots and areas will be cleared beginning at 12:01 AM game day Saturday. Parking lots open at 6 AM for games that kick off prior to 3:30 PM, and 8 AM for all later kickoff times. Questions about IPTAY parking should be directed to the IPTAY office by calling 864.656.2115. Key Points Parking regulations for home football games supersede all other parking regulations. Parking regulations for home football games will be enforced beginning 12:01 AM game day Saturday. Entrance into IPTAY parking areas on game days is controlled by the S.C. Highway Patrol and event staff. Only vehicles with a valid IPTAY parking permit will be allowed to enter, drive through or park in IPTAY parking areas. Parking lots open at 6 AM for games that kick off prior to 3:30 PM, and 8 AM for all later kickoff times. Employees leaving personal vehicles on campus while traveling should be familiar with the football schedule to avoid parking in reserved lots on game days and being towed. All towed vehicles can be retrieved from CUPD 24/7. All federal, state and university vehicles are to be moved to an east campus perimeter parking lots by 12:01 AM game day Saturdays. A current map of how parking is allocated on game days through IPTAY is available here. Parking restrictions after the game Parked vehicles at the driving range must move 2 hours after the conclusion of the game. Resident students who move their vehicles from the west side (R-3 and C-3 parking lots, Press Rd., and Centennial Blvd.) to Kite Hill must vacate these areas and return their vehicles to west side resident-student lots by 6 p.m. on Sundays following home games. Where can students park? Residence hall students who are required to relocate their vehicles may park on Kite Hill, which is accessible through the R-1 lot. All spaces in C-1, C-3, and R-3 parking lots as well as Centennial Blvd and Press Rd must be vacated. **No parking on roadways inside of resident lots (R-1 and R-2) that will prohibit the traffic flow or safety within the lot. Any vehicles impeding traffic flow are subject to being towed. Students may move their vehicles the evening before the game and continuing until 12:01 AM game day Saturday. All vehicles must be cleared from reserved IPTAY lots by the time towing begins at 12:01 AM. Resident students who move their vehicles to Kite Hill must vacate these areas and return their vehicles to resident-student lots by 6 p.m. the day after home games or you may be issued a citation. Tiger Transit will operate a "No Tows Route" with stops at the gates of Kite Hill Recycling Center in R-1, R-3, and Core Campus on Fort Hill Street during the following service hours: Day before – 3 p.m. until midnight Day after – 12 p.m. - 6 p.m. Tiger Transit is also available from 6 p.m. - 2 a.m. Monday through Thursday and 6 p.m.- 6 a.m. Friday through Sunday to provide transportation to and from parking lots. Tiger Transit will not operate for three hours following the end of the game to allow time for traffic to disperse. Use the My.Clemson App, under "Transit" to request a ride. Where can't I park? All vehicles parked in lots and numbered spaces reserved for football parking must be moved no later than 12:01 AM Saturday of home games. East Campus Reserved Parking C-1 Commuter lot: All orange spaces in the entire lot are reserved. All orange spaces, including those without Tiger Paw markings, must be vacated by 12:01 AM Saturday. The Tiger Paws have no relevance in this year’s parking plan. Employee lot: E-1 (Hendrix Student Center) reserved for IPTAY placards. A select number of spaces closest to the Biosystems Research Complex are reserved for faculty and staff who are required to work on game days. Employee lot: E-6 (behind Sikes Hall) reserved for ADA placards only. Parkway Drive (from lot E-6, behind Sikes Hall, behind Bryan Mall, and Cherry Road) and Cherry Road reserved for ADA placards only. Employee lot: E-2 (P&A / Life Sciences lot) and Jersey Lane Library E-15 lot: (east of R.M. Cooper Library) Employee lot: E-21 (old Gravel lot on Cherry Rd.) and behind the Godley-Snell building Commuter & Employee lot: C-11 & E-22 (Brooks Center) Employee lot: E-24 (Pecan Grove gravel lot at Calhoun Courts) Employee lot: E-25 (orange spaces in the gravel lot next to the Esso) Employee lot: E-27 (Douthit Hills) Employee Lot: E-29 (Strom Thurmond Circle) Employee Lot: E-37 (College of Business) Employee spaces behind Newman Hall and Redfern will be available for faculty and staff who are required to work on game days. Only vehicles displaying a current faculty/staff permit will be allowed to park in this area. R-4, R-4 ext, R-6, R-7, R-8 (not including the metered spaces), and R-9 parking lots are reserved for the use of student permit holders only. West Campus Reserved Parking Resident lots: R-3 & R-3 extension (Centennial Blvd and Press Rd) (See information above on alternate parking for relocating students.) All Commuter lots: C-2, C-2A, C-3, C-4, C-5, C-7, C-8, C-9, C-11, C-12, C-13, C-15 All Employee lots: E-3, E-4, E-5, E-7, E-11, E-14, E-16, E-18, E-31, E-32, E-35. The entire E-5 lot, off Heisman Street and adjacent to the motor pool, is reserved parking for football games. Any-Permit lots: P-1, P-01 Ext., P-4, P-6 All West Campus Streets: Ravenel Road, Avenue of Champions, Centennial Boulevard, Williamson Road, Heisman Street, Kappa Street, Klugh Avenue (except authorized vehicles in service vehicle spaces), Press Road, South Palmetto Boulevard including the Lee Hall cul-de-sac. Calhoun Drive, Fernow Street and Fort Hill Street will also be reserved this year. The Snow Center Lot (P-6) Central Historic District Reserved Parking Calhoun Drive, from Sikes Hall to Tillman Hall and Sirrine Hall, including the circle Fernow Street, from Calhoun Drive to South Palmetto Boulevard Fort Hill Street, from Calhoun Drive to Williamson Road, including lot E- 32 at the Trustee House and on-street parking in front of the John C. Calhoun House, also known as Fort Hill. Douthit Hills Reserved Parking E-27 parking lot, including metered spaces E-37 parking lot at the College of Business School R-7, R-8 (not including the metered spaces), and R-9 parking lots are reserved for Douthit Hills resident students only. Hillside at University Ridge - this hillside, adjacent to the Alumni Center and bordered by S.C. 93, Sherman Street and Oak Terrace, will be reserved for IPTAY parking. Employee spaces located on Oak Terrace are reserved for IPTAY parking. Other Reserved Parking Hillside at University Ridge - this hillside, adjacent to the Alumni Center and bordered by S.C. 93, Sherman Street and Daniel Drive. Employee spaces located on Daniel Drive E-8 & E-9 - Employee spaces located around the Human Resources building, will be reserved for IPTAY parking. E-29 - Strom Thurmond Institute General Parking Options Clemson has 15,000 parking spaces that are assigned to IPTAY donors each year — that means a large contingent of fans, including students with commuter permits, must find parking elsewhere. Paid general public parking for game-day visitors is available at the following locations. You can secure your parking space by purchasing your permit online before the game. C-1 Parking Lot Snow Center. Check out the Interactive Football Parking Map for detailed locations. Where can visiting parents park? Clemson welcomes parents of students to visit campus whenever possible. Parking permits are subject to the same restrictions as employee and student permits and are not valid in reserved/restricted spaces on game day or any other day. Football Guest Parking Permits may be obtained from Parking and Transportation Services (113 Union Drive, Clemson) on the Friday before game day during normal business hours (7:30 AM - 4:30 PM). Guests may get a permit after hours from Clemson University Police Department. Football Guest Parking Permits allow visiting guests of Clemson students to park in any legal space on campus except for restricted/reserved spaces. On game day Saturdays, all vehicles parked in towable areas from 12:01 AM game day Saturday until parking lots open will be towed at the owner's expense. Note, metered spaces are also reserved across campus for IPTAY donor parking and must be cleared. Additionally, any vehicle not displaying the correct IPTAY permit or who is parked in a restricted area may be towed from an area at any time on game day Saturdays at the owner's expense. In general, it is best to avoid parking on the West side campus. Parent are encouraged to park on Kite Hill during the game. Where can CU employees who are required to work park? The following areas are designated ONLY for University employees (Aramark, facilities, etc.) who are required to report to work on home football game days. No tailgating is permitted in these areas. All vehicles entering and parking in these areas must display valid employee parking permits. Towing from all other campus employee parking areas will begin at 12:01 AM game day Saturday. Employee spaces behind Redfern Health Center and adjacent to Newman Hall Last row of E-1 parking lot closest to the Biosystems Research Complex McGinty Court metered parking in front of Barre Hall Metered parking in R-8 at Douthit Hills Last row of E-28 parking lot at Douthit Hills (24-hour employee spaces) 24-Hr Employee spaces in R-9 at Douthit Hills Metered spaces in the back of the C-1 Parking lot Where can commuter students who are required to work park? Students working on campus may park on Kite Hill or in the R-6 parking lot. Towing from all other campus employee parking areas will begin at 12:01 AM game day Saturday. Transit Service As with all weekends, buses do not run on campus during weekend games. ADA shuttles, however, are in service operating 3 hours before kick-off from the Sikes Hall parking lot to the stadium through the end of the game. Patrons needing assistance are allowed one person to accompany them. Please note that regularly scheduled off campus routes remain in service. The Red Route is in operation with a route deviation to avoid College Avenue and Sikes Hall. The only on-campus bus stop location is Cherry Rd @ Bryan Circle. Transportation, the No Tows Route, is available to assist students who must relocate their vehicles for football games. Resident students who move their vehicles to R-1, R-2, R-6 and Kite Hill must vacate these areas and return their vehicles to resident student lots by 6 p.m. on Sundays following home games. Tiger Transit will operate a "No Tows Route" with stops at R-1, R-2, R-6, Bryan Circle at Cherry Rd, Core Campus on Fort Hill Street, and R-3 parking lot, during the following service hours: Friday – 3 p.m. until midnight Sunday – 2 p.m. - 7 p.m. Tiger Transit also is available from 6 p.m. - 2 a.m. Monday through Thursday and 6 p.m.-6 a.m. Friday-Sunday to provide transportation to and from parking lots. Tiger Transit will not operate for three hours following the end of the game to allow time for traffic to disperse. Use the "Tiger Transit Request" option in the Transit tab of the My.Clemson app. No Parking Allowed No vehicles are to be driven through or parked in these areas. Vehicles parked illegally will be towed at the owner's expense from these areas: Bowman Field Woodlawn Cemetery President's Park by the Rotunda The lawn bordered by R.M. Cooper Library, Strom Thurmond Institute and Barre Hall The park-like area bordered by Fort Hill Street and Calhoun Drive near the Trustee House On the roadside of Perimeter Road between SC 93 and Cherry Road. Vehicles in this area will be towed. Any barricaded spaces Parking and Transportation Services G01 Edgar Brown Union | Clemson, SC 29634 Office Hours: Mon - Fri 7:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Contact Us Copyright 2020 Webmaster