Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research DEI Initiatives Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Advising Resources Academic Advising and Resource CenterAdvising Appointment ResourcesImportant InformationLambuth CampusGlobal ProgramContact us Forms NeuroSTART Getting Involved Prepare for Graduate School Psychology Honors Program Psychology as a Career FAQ Take Action Psychology Advanced Degrees Academic Advising & Resource Center (AARC) The Psychological Services Center Teaching Take-Out Facebook Home Department of Psychology Undergraduate Preparing for Graduate School Preparing for Graduate School The Basics Your grades: It goes without saying that you must present a strong academic record in order to be considered seriously for graduate school. Practically every graduate program will expect you to have a GPA of 3.0 or higher, and many will expect you to have a GPA of 3.5 or higher. Necessary Courses: In general, graduate programs expect applicants to have completed substantive coursework in psychology. This includes courses in statistics, research methods, and the experimental areas of the field. You should strongly consider retaking such courses if you do poorly. Desirable Courses: A history and systems course is considered desirable by many graduate programs (and a requirement for graduation from our undergraduate program). A second statistics course, computer literacy and/or programming courses, and biology/physiology/neuroscience coursework is also considered desirable. Research Experience: Graduate work in psychology requires conducting research for theses and dissertations. Degrees are not awarded simply for completing coursework. Therefore, one of the best ways to make yourself attractive to graduate programs is to get involved in research as an undergraduate. You should work closely on a research project or projects with one or more members of the faculty. Ideally, this participation should continue for more than one semester. This experience provides evidence to the graduate programs that you know what research is like. It will also provide evidence for you - do you enjoy research enough to spend several years (or the rest of your career) doing it? For more details about getting involved in research at The UofM, click on Opportunities. Letters of Recommendation: Keep in mind that you will need to obtain at least three informed letters of recommendation. This means that at least three members of the faculty must get to know you better than simply as a face in the classroom. One of the best ways of getting to know faculty is to get involved in their research. Graduate Record Examination: Virtually all graduate programs require you to submit the scores you received on the Graduate Record Examination (GRE). Some people will tell you that it is impossible to study for this test. Don't believe them. Buy a current copy of a GRE study guide (such as Barron's, Arco's, etc.) and review it carefully, especially any math sections that you're rusty on. Take the practice tests under real-time conditions. This will familiarize you with the format of the test and help you to pace your time so that you can finish all the questions. You should take the aptitude portion of the GRE (verbal, quantitative, analytical) as early as the fall term of your junior year. This will allow time for remedial study and retaking the test if you perform poorly the first time. Old scores stay on your records for five years, and schools differ in how they evaluate multiple sets of scores (some average the scores; many look only at the most recent). In general, the verbal and quantitative scores are given more weight than the analytical score. Take the advanced (psychology) test during the fall of your senior year so that you have the benefit from additional psychology coursework. It is not recommended that you take the aptitude and advanced tests on the same day. You may use your scores on the Psychology Field Test, a graduation requirement for psychology majors at The UofM, as part of your graduate school application. Don't let low test scores keep you from applying, but you should have something to offset them (such as research experience or a very high GPA). Don't hide low scores from your letter writers; they may be able to help you de-emphasize or explain them in their letters. Relative Importance of the Various Factors: The three primary components of your application will be your grades, your GRE scores, and letters of recommendation. Different programs and faculty will assign different weights to these factors. Good performance in one may make up for weaker performance in another area. Here is a guide to assist in preparing for Graduate School. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/15/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.