Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Protect the Pack COVID-19 Readiness Personal Precautions Community Standards COVID-19 Health Services Updates COVID-19 Readiness Personal Precautions sub navigation menuPersonal Precautions COVID-19 Health Services Updates Full Site Navigation Personal Precautions Community Standards COVID-19 Readiness As NC State’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic evolves, here’s how we help keep the Pack healthy. Important Reminders The Protect the Pack website has been updated to help the campus community find relevant information and resources related to COVID-19. Read a complete description of the update here. If you feel sick, please stay home to protect the health of others in your classroom or workplace. Get tested and, if you are positive, please follow quarantine guidelines. Student Health Services continues to serve our campus community by providing free COVID-19 testing, monitoring campus positivity rates and administering COVID-19 vaccinations and boosters. Face coverings — while optional in most campus indoor locations — remain mandatory in clinical and health care settings and identified research laboratories as required by state or federal law or regulations. Learn more here. It Takes a Wolfpack In addition to outlining ways for us all to protect ourselves and others, NC State continues providing valuable information to help keep students, families, faculty and staff safe and thriving. Use the links below to find information and resources on how to remain a healthy member of the Wolfpack. Personal Precautions Read more on how we can protect ourselves while upholding our collective responsibility to respect and support one another. COVID-19 Health Services Get the latest information on testing, vaccinations, data tracking and self-reporting on campus. Missed an email? Read the most recent campus updates from the university by clicking the button below. Protect the Pack Updates Protect the Pack Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan Campus Map facebook you tube twitter instagram linked in © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.