Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide powered by Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Swearer Center. Brown University. Search form Search Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer about programs People Stories Students Faculty Community Partners Friends & Alumni Sign up for our Newsletter Programs Brown in Washington Summer Signature Program The SPRINT Brown in Washington Summer Signature Program (previously called the Brown in Washington Summer Fellowship) is a paid opportunity with a stipend (and a SEW, for qualifying students) for undergraduate students to spend a summer as an intern with a Washington, D.C.-based public agency or think tank. Students intern at their site for 10 weeks and take part in co-curricular programming that provides them with rich learning experiences, valuable peer-to-peer support and deep professional connections. Applications for 2022 summer opportunities, including the Brown in Washington Summer program, have been consolidated under the SPRINT (Summer/Semester Projects for Research, Internship, Teaching) Signature Internship Programs application umbrella. Applications can be found in UFunds. In summer 2022, the base stipend for all SPRINT domestic opportunities is $2,500. In addition, aided students with parent contribution/responsibility of $15,001 and above will automatically receive a Gap Award of $2,000, for a total of $4,500. Similarly, aided students with parent contribution/responsibility of $15,000 and below will receive a Gap Award of $3,000 for a total of $5,500. Parent Contribution/Responsibility is determined by the Office of Financial Aid. Eligible students may also qualify for a Summer Earnings Waiver. For Summer 2022, the cohort will include up to 15 undergraduate students. meet the Brown in Washington Summer Signature Program Cohorts Structure CareerLAB will match participants with an internship opportunity from a list of pre-selected partner organizations, or help them to identify and apply for policy-related internships that meet program criteria. In late spring 2022, students will participate in preparatory workshops which will orient them to the program and to the work environment of Washington, D.C. In the summer, students will complete the program with the support, guidance, and instruction of the Brown in Washington staff. Students are expected to participate in a required co-curriculum (approximately 3-5 hours per week) which will include facilitated discussions, written reflection assignments, and professional development workshops. Internship placements will be focused on one or more of the following types of public policy opportunities: Policy research and development; Policy making (legislative, judicial, and executive); or Policy analysis and evaluation. Summer placements are not permitted to involve advocacy work. For this reason, placements are primarily: Government: Federal Agencies, Senate and House Committees, Legislative Offices, D.C. City Agencies and Government Offices Think-tanks, policy institutes, or research centers In particular cases, placement may be made in another type of organization, so long as the work is policy-oriented and not advocacy-related. Summer housing will be offered at Washington Internship Student Housing (WISH). Students are also permitted to source their own housing. If a student chooses to live at WISH, the cost is estimated at $4,255 per resident for double occupancy, $3,600 per resident for triple occupancy, and $3,275 per resident for quad occupancy for the summer term. Through Egap funds, the College will provide supplemental funding to address the cost of living for students with high demonstrated financial need. The Brown in Washington Summer Signature Program may satisfy the practicum requirement for students participating in the Engaged Scholarship Certificate. Placement Upon selection into the Brown in Washington Signature Program, students will have the opportunity to rank their interest in working with our partner organizations for summer 2022. Students can also access the list in the BrownConnect SPRINT Signature Programs Ufunds application in the Brown in Washington section. It is possible to intern at an organization that is not one of our partners and students are encouraged to seek out these internships on their own. The organization and internship opportunity must meet the criteria of our program: a substantial internship in a policy-oriented organization that is over the course of 10 weeks and is a student's primary summer experience. Students apply independently and must confirm that they have been accepted as an intern if they are accepted into the SPRINT Brown in Washington Summer program. This guide from CareerLAB is intended to help students independently secure internships in Washington, D.C. Eligibility Rising sophomores, juniors, and seniors who are enrolled in spring 2022 and fall 2022 are eligible to apply for SPRINTs. The program is open to students from any concentration. Students must be available during the entire duration of the program. Graduating seniors (May '22) are not eligible. International students are eligible to apply, but should review SPRINT FAQs about receiving an award from Brown as an international student. The Brown in Washington Summer program is one of the BrownConnect Signature Programs. Students who have received summer funding from BrownConnect (LINK, UTRA, and Signature Programs including Swearer Center programs) in a previous summer will not receive priority consideration but are eligible to apply again. Supporting students on Brown University financial aid—particularly students with the highest demonstrated financial need—is the primary priority of the College and available summer funding. Receiving a previous academic year UTRA will not impact your eligibility for a summer SPRINT. The dates of the program are (tentatively): May 26, 2022 to August 5, 2022. For more information, watch this video of the March 2022 Info Session. Apply To learn more about SPRINT awards, read the FAQs and apply on UFunds. Please note: the deadline for the Brown in Washington summer SPRINT application is noon on February 9, 2022. Applications will not be accepted after this date or time. Note: Question 1 on the application will be used in place of a cover letter and should focus on the specific opportunity listed as the first choice organization within the application. Contact Betsy Shimberg, [email protected] Senior Associate Dean of the College for Co-Curricular & Experiential Learning Director, Brown in Washington Celebrating the Class of 2022. read> Celebrating the Class of 2021. read> See All Brown in Washington Summer Signature Program Stories meet the Brown in Washington Summer Signature Program Cohorts Contact Swearer Center Brown University 2 Stimson Avenue Box 1974 Providence, R.I. 02912 +1 401 863 2338 s[email protected] Quicklinks Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer BrownEngage Connect Swearer http://www.facebook.com/SwearerCenter https://twitter.com/swearercenter https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDdrA9Z9vbwIOAjCHxjvp7Q https://www.instagram.com/swearercenter/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/swearercenter Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2016 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat