Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Admissions and Arrival » Apply to UC » Exchange and Visiting Student Programs Set Navigation title in component Cost and Finances Apply to UC Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Exchange and Visiting Student Programs Our student exchange program and visiting student program offers you the opportunity to experience the University of Cincinnati for a semester or academic year. The Student Exchange Program is for students from one of our approved exchange partners. The Visiting Student Program is for international students from all other institutions. UC operates on a 15-week semester calendar. Fall semester begins in late August and ends in December Spring semester begins in early January and ends in late April Exchange and visiting students must enroll full time. 12 credit hours at the undergraduate level 10 credit hours at the graduate level Application Deadlines Fall Semester: April 1 Spring Semester: October 1 Student Exchange Program Student Exchange Programs (SEP) are available to students coming from one of UC’s partner institutions abroad. An official agreement must be in place with your university for you to participate. If you are not sure if an agreement exists, contact us at international.students@uc.edu. How to apply Meet with your home university’s international office to explore the possibility of studying abroad. We require all students to be nominated by their home institution via email to international.students@uc.edu at least one month prior to the application deadline. Partners should only nominate students with a 3.0 GPA or higher (based on the U.S. grading scale) and who have met the English Proficiency requirement. Include the student’s legal name, email address, home institution, year of study (i.e. 2nd, 3rd, 4th), and subject of interest (i.e. Engineering, Business). You will be sent a link to our online application once nominated. You are required to submit supporting documents electronically as part of the application. Program information right arrow down arrow Take a look at UC's academic calendar. Search for upcoming courses. Check out your housing options at UC. Learn more about student health insurance. Learn more about the city of Cincinnati. Cost breakdown per semester right arrow down arrow Tuition: Home institution tuition, paid to home institution. Living Expenses: $5,834 International Student Fee: $125 This fee covers costs associated with U.S. government compliance, orientation, and a mandatory health screening. Health Insurance: $1,180 Total: $7,139 You may be required to pay other fees (ex. lab fees) for the use of non-academic or non-obligatory facilities. A list of these will be sent to your exchange coordinator before your application is approved. Supporting documents right arrow down arrow A completed application A Financial Certification Form A bank statement or an official letter from your bank stating that you have financial support An academic record or transcript English proficiency test scores A statement of purpose A portfolio in PDF format if you are applying to Design, Fine Arts or Architecture and Interior Design A copy of the information page of your passport Countries whose citizens meet the English language requirement right arrow down arrow Antigua Australia Bahamas Barbados Belize Bermuda Canada Denmark Dominica Fiji Finland Grand Caymen Grenada Irish Republic Jamaica Malawi Netherlands Nevis New Zealand Norway St. Kitts St. Lucia St. Vincent Grenadines Singapore South Africa Sweden United Kingdom Virgin Islands Visiting Student Program The Visiting Student Program is open to all interested international students during the Fall and Spring Semesters. VSP participants pay tuition and fees directly to the University of Cincinnati. Students can apply for courses of study in most University of Cincinnati colleges. The decision to admit a student to the VSP will be made by the academic college. How to apply To access the Visiting Student Program application, send an email to international.students@uc.edu before the application deadline. In your email, include the following information: your desired field of study, certification that you have the required English proficiency documents, and evidence of a GPA of 3.0 or higher on the U.S. grading scale. Then, complete the online application. Program information right arrow down arrow Take a look at UC's academic calendar. Search for upcoming courses. Check out your housing options at UC. Learn more about student health insurance. Learn more about the city of Cincinnati. Cost per semester right arrow down arrow Costs of visiting student programs by level of study and length of time. Expenses in current academic year Undergraduate - One Semester Undergraduate - Two Semesters Postgraduate - One Semester Postgraduate - Two Semesters Tuition and other fees $14,486 $28,972 $14,197 $28,394 Living expenses $5,937 $12,954 $5,937 $12,954 Health insurance $1,180 $2,360 $1,180 $2,360 Total $21,603 $44,286 $21,314 $43,708 Supporting documents right arrow down arrow A completed application (you will be sent a link for this) A Financial Certification Form A bank statement or an official letter from your bank stating that you have financial support An academic record or transcript (with a GPA of 3.0 or above) English Proficiency test scores A TOEFL score of 79 or higher is required, or the equivalent for IELTS and Pearson. To participate in American Identity and Politics, a TOEFL score of 66 or higher is required, or the equivalent for IELTS and Pearson. A statement of purpose A copy of the biographical information page of your passport Countries whose citizens meet the English language requirement right arrow down arrow Antigua Australia Bahamas Barbados Belize Bermuda Canada Denmark Dominica Fiji Finland Grand Caymen Grenada Irish Republic Jamaica Malawi Netherlands Nevis New Zealand Norway St. Kitts St. Lucia St. Vincent Grenadines Singapore South Africa Sweden United Kingdom Virgin Islands UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top