Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Full-time MBA Full-time MBA FAQs Home » Programs » MBA » Full-time MBA » FAQs Menu Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs We have compiled a selection of the Georgia Tech Full-time MBA FAQs that prospective students most commonly ask. If you are unable to find the answer to a specific question or wish to speak with someone directly regarding other Scheller College of Business MBA FAQs, feel free to contact us online or call 404.894.8722. Scheller College of Business MBA FAQs: Directions, Parking, and Accommodations How do I get to the Scheller College of Business? View detailed directions and parking. How do I get from the airport to the Scheller College? Many visitors take MARTA (light rail) from the airport. There are two MARTA stations (North Avenue and Midtown) within blocks of the College and there are a variety of hotels and restaurants in the immediate vicinity. There are many other options for traveling to and from Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport to Midtown Atlanta. Are there hotels near campus? Yes. There are many hotels to choose from near the College of Business and the Georgia Tech campus. Here are several options:(ask for Georgia Tech rates) Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center (across the street from Scheller College of Business) 800 Spring Street NW, Atlanta, GA 30308 Reservations: 404-347-9440; 800-706-2899 This full-service hotel located on the Georgia Tech campus, offers restaurant, bar and room service seven days a week as well as numerous restaurant options just steps away. The hotel also features free wireless internet, fitness center (including indoor pool) and FREE transportation on the Tech Trolley that stops right in front of the hotel. Remember to take your picture with the Ramblin' Wreck on display in the lobby! Ask for the Georgia Tech rate! Many of the hotels listed below also offer Georgia Tech rates. Be sure to ask! Georgian Terrace (.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 659 Peachtree Street Atlanta, GA 30308 404-897-1991 Hilton Garden Inn/Homewood Suites (0.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 97 10th Street NW Atlanta, GA 30309 404-524-4006 Hotel Indigo Atlanta Midtown (.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 683 Peachtree Street. NE Atlanta, GA 30308 404-874-9200 Regency Suites Hotel (.3 miles from the Scheller College of Business) 975 West Peachtree St. NW, Atlanta, GA 30309 800-642-3629 Renaissance Atlanta Hotel Downtown (.1 mile walk from Scheller College of Business) 866 West Peachtree Street NW Atlanta, GA 30308 678-412-2400 Residence Inn Atlanta Midtown / Historic (.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 1041 West Peachtree Street Atlanta, GA 30309 404-872-8885 Residence Inn Midtown/17th at Peachtree hotel (1.2 miles from Scheller College of Business) 1365 W Peachtree St NE Atlanta, GA 30309 404-745-1000 Tell me more about Tech Square. Learn more about Tech Square. Tell me more about Atlanta. Learn more about Atlanta. Admissions How are applications to the Full-time MBA program evaluated? Applications to the MBA program are evaluated following each application deadline. Considered in the admission decision are undergraduate (and graduate, if applicable) academic performance, GMAT or GRE scores, TOEFL or IELTS scores for many international applicants, work experience, essays, interview, letters of recommendation, leadership potential, career fit, and other documentation supporting the application. We look at each applicant, and application, in a holistic manner when making admission decisions. What makes an application stand out among others? At Scheller, there is no point system or "secret formula." We are truly interested in building a program of diverse, forward thinking individuals. However, the College doesn't compromise on quality and seeks students who demonstrate strong and appropiate work experience, leadership, maturity, community activity, intellectual capacity, and competitive academic credentials (GRE or GMAT score and GPA). Strengths in one area may compensate for weaknesses in another area. What do I bring to my admissions interview? Treat your admissions interview like an employment interview. Dress professionally and come prepared; bring your resume and do your research in advance. When and how will I receive an admissions decision? The timing for your admission decision will depend on which round you submitted your complete application. You will receive notification via email when your decision is available to view in our application system. Admission decisions cannot be given over the phone. What is the admission profile on the recent class enrolled? View our current class profile. Is work experience required to be accepted in the program? We strongly recommend at least two to three years of professional work experience. In addition to the contributions they make to the classroom, students with professional work experience find the MBA more enriching, professionally and personally. If you do not have professional work experience, discuss the contributions you can make to the program in your essay, based on internship experiences or leadership activities. Moreover, many of our partner companies require current students to have at least three years of work experience to be considered for a summer internship or full time career placement. I have not taken any undergraduate courses in business. Will that affect my chances of admission? No, this will not affect your admission and you will not be at a disadvantage in classes. About 70% of our MBA students hold non-business undergraduate degrees. The admissions committee strives to admit students from a wide range of undergraduate and professional backgrounds. Are there any education prerequisites to the MBA program? Yes, a bachelor's degree. We welcome applicants with accredited four-year bachelor's degrees from all academic backgrounds. Am I eligible for admission to your program if I have an MBA from another institution? If you have an MBA from an institution outside the U.S., you may be eligible for admission. If you have an MBA from another institution inside the U.S., you are ineligible to qualify for admission to our MBA program. Application Process What are the application deadlines for the Full-time MBA program? View application deadlines and more details about application requirements. How can I apply? Submit the online application. The online application enables you to create a username and password to save your work and return at a later time to complete. Follow the instructions for the Georgia Tech graduate application process. What materials must be received before the application is considered complete and can be evaluated? Completed applications must include the following: Submitting the application and application fee Resume Official or self-reported GMAT or GRE scores (unless applying test optional) Academic transcripts Unofficial transcripts can serve as a placeholder for initial application review, but official transcripts will be required before an admission invitation is extended. Georgia Tech graduates: Upload unofficial transcripts. We will be able to pull your official transcripts for you upon enrollment. Essays Letters of recommendation At least one must be received to start the evaluation process Official TOEFL or IELTS scores for most international applicants Official scores must be submitted, self-reported scores will not satisfy the requirement Scores must be valid (not expired) up to one month from start of porgram (July before start term) Each section/band score requirement must be met in addition to the overall score per Institute's policy What are the application essays? There are three required essays and one optional essay. 1. Why an MBA and why Georgia Tech? (Required) Describe how your experiences, both professional and personal, have led you to the decision to pursue an MBA at Georgia Tech. (2,000 character maximum including spaces) 2. What are your short-term and long-term career goals? Discuss your career goals and how Georgia Tech is best suited to help you achieve your goals. (2,000 character maximum including spaces) 3. Ten facts (Required) List 10 facts about yourself that will help your future classmates get to know you. (2,000 character limit including spaces) 4. Optional Essay The Admissions Committee believes that the required essays address issues that help us learn about you and understand your candidacy for the MBA program; however, you may provide us with any additional information pertinent to your admission that has not been previously covered in the rest of the application. Feel free to discuss any unique aspects of your candidacy or any perceived weaknesses. (2,000 character limit including spaces) Does Georgia Tech's MBA program accept the MBA Common Letter of Recommendation? Yes, Scheller College's MBA program accepts the Common Letter of Recommendation (LOR) posted on the GMAC website. When your recommenders receive the email asking for their recommendation, they can upload the Common LOR as part of the recommendation. What should I do if I can't submit all application materials by the deadline? Contact us online or call us at +001.404.894.8722. I am scheduled to take the GMAT, GRE, TOEFL, or IELTS right before the application deadline, so I won't have my official scores in time. What should I do? Taking the GMAT or GRE exams right before the application deadline is fine. When you submit the online application, you can include your unofficial scores and the admissions committee can begin a preliminary evaluation of your application. However, an admission decision cannot be made until the official scores are received. International applicants should note that the admissions committee cannot review an application for admission if official TOEFL or IELTS scores have not been received. I want to send my official GMAT scores to Georgia Tech for the Full-time MBA program. What is the institute code? The institute code for the Full-time MBA program is: HWK-54-37 I want to send my official GRE scores to Georgia Tech for the Full-time MBA program. What is the institute code? The institute code for the Full-time MBA program is 5248 How can I check the status of my application? You can check the status of your admission online at: Georgia Tech Graduate Studies website. If you still have questions or concerns after checking your status online, contact us. Please note, we typically receive your official GMAT or GRE scores in about a week, but scores take additional time to post on the online application status check. Is it possible to waive the GMAT or GRE? The Full-time MBA will be piloting a test optional admissions process for Fall 2021 enrollment. Review the test optional FAQ for more information Are applicants to the MBA program required to interview? Yes, admission interviews are by invitation only. After submitting your application, if you're selected for an interview, an admissions representative will contact you to schedule your interview during one of our on campus Interview Days. We strongly encourage you to interview on campus as our Interview Days provide a comprehensive look into what it looks like to become a member of our community. In addition to your interview, you will have the opportunity to connect with current students, sit in on an actual MBA class lecture, and tour the campus. However, if you're unable to visit in person, we will schedule a phone or Skype interview. Interviews are led by Admissions and Career Services staff members. If I am a permanent resident, is the application process different? If you're a permanent resident of the United States, you must include a copy of your Permanent Resident Card (Green Card), both front and back, with your application. The remaining application process is the same as for U.S. citizens. Permanent residents are exempt from English proficiency exams and are not required to submit financial documents. Career Development Is an MBA a good path for someone looking to switch careers? Absolutely. An MBA degree is an excellent investment to help you make a career transition. Whether you are changing roles within a company, transitioning to a new career within the same industry, or making a professional pivot, our career development process and a summer internship can facilitate your transition. The majority of our students are looking to make career transitions and find our program helps bridge previous gaps in experience or education. What support do you offer for job searches and career development? We are proud to share our Jones MBA Career Center was voted #1 in the world in 2018 by the Financial Times for its Full-time Career Services! The Jones MBA Career Center is a state-of-the-art facility that offers exemplary career resources and one-on-one career advisement for MBA students. The process begins in the summer before school starts by helping students develop individual plans that will lead to challenging and rewarding opportunities while enrolled in the program, upon graduation, and throughout their careers. Our primary focus is for all students to have a great job by graduation. The following is a typical career development schedule for students enrolled in the Full-time MBA program: Year 1 Summer (process begins before classes start) Meet with your career advisor, who will work with you during the MBA program Update your MBA resume Create an initial career declaration worksheet to discuss with your advisor Complete CareerLeader, an online employment career assessment tool Fall Semester Complete 28-hour, eight-week Career Development Workshop Attend fall recruiting corporate presentations Attend national career fairs Meet with your career advisor Complete qualifying interview Spring Semester Search for summer internship Meet regularly with advisor to enhance interview skills Participate in on-campus recruiting for internships Year 2 Summer Semester Summer internship Conduct networking meetings to explore additional career opportunities Fall Semester 35% of students typically accept permanent jobs from internships Attend fall recruiting corporate presentations Attend national career fairs Meet with your career advisor Spring Semester 50-65% of students typically have accepted permanent jobs by the beginning of the second semester Continue job search activities Why are your employment numbers consistently high? We believe it's a combination of the experience of our career advisors, the size of our program, and career services' involvement in the admission process. We have an experienced staff comprised of advisors with college recruiting expertise and a wide range of corporate experience. Advisors have served in various career development, human resources, and management roles at companies including AT&T, IBM, and HP. The size of our program allows for more personal attention and a very low ratio of students to career advisor (27:1) compared to other schools. The career services team is a part of the interview and admissions process. Our goal is to have every student graduate with the exciting career of their choice, and students are admitted with success in mind. We listen to your career aspirations and have a very open dialogue with you about your opportunity to reach that goal. What placement success have students had? Achievements include: 98% employed three months after graduation. Consistently in the top tier for employment record among Full-time MBA programs. View the latest Georgia Tech career results and placement figures on the Full-time MBA career development page. Financial Information What are the tuition and fees for the MBA program? View current MBA tuition and fees. Are there opportunities for funding or financial assistance? Yes, more than 50% of Full-time MBA students receive funding from the College of Business including graduate assistantships (GRAs) and fellowships. All applicants, resident and non-resident, will automatically be considered for funding in the admission review process as long as funding remains available. Applicants interested in financial assistance via GRA positions and fellowship awards are encouraged to apply in our earliest application rounds. All aspects of a candidate's profile and application will be evaluated in deciding who will receive these merit-based awards. Education Loans MBA students may be eligible for education loans. To learn more about graduate financial aid and loan programs, visit Georgia Tech's Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid website. International students are not eligible for federal or state financial aid programs. However, a variety of privately funded loan programs may be available — view the international student page on Georgia Tech's Office of International Education website. The Post-9/11 GI Bill, Yellow Ribbon Program Effective August 1, 2011, qualified U.S. veterans may be eligible to receive financial support for tuition, mandatory fees, books, and housing. Yellow Ribbon is awarded on a first-come, first-serve basis, and slots are limited. Visit the registrar's website for more information. Additional information is available through the Department of Veterans Affairs GI Bill website, or you may contact us with questions. You may also review general information regarding financing your degree on mba.com. Full-time MBA Program Information & Curriculum Is this a heavily quantitative program? The core curriculum of MBA programs tends to be quantitative in nature, which is why most MBA programs look for strong quantitative skills during the admissions process. The Georgia Tech MBA program is no exception. We look for students who can demonstrate quantitative aptitude through academic performance, test scores, and/or professional responsibilities. Students may customize electives to meet their unique interests and goals, which may or may not be quantitatively focused. How do students with non-technical backgrounds perform? Students from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds excel in our program and go on to very successful careers in a variety of functional areas and industries. Core courses expose students to all functional areas of business, preparing them for elective coursework. Students choose from a variety of electives across multiple academic areas, or focus their learning by pursuing immersive tracks in leading innovation and/or concentrations. By no means are you expected to have a techical background, degree or work experience in order to be considered for admission. Will I be at a disadvantage in my MBA classes if I haven't taken any business courses previously? Absolutely not! While the core courses move at a fast pace, they do not assume knowledge from previous business coursework. Our curriculum is designed for you to build a solid foundation in all the functional areas of business. Core courses give you an opportunity to explore new concepts, identify new strengths and skills, and prepare you to get the most out of our electives, while providing knowledge you'll reference throughout your career. Additionally, at Scheller College, we look for diversity in our class profile - both in experience and background. In this way you will be able to lean on classmates with different backgrounds to help you succeed. My undergraduate degree is in Business Administration and I have taken some of the core courses already. Can I waive courses in the MBA curriculum? No, all core courses are required and cannot be waived. For students who have taken undergraduate business courses, MBA core courses offer a refresher to business concepts that are necessary for success in elective courses. Also, while you may have completed business courses at the undergraduate level, the graduate versions of those courses are more rigorous and application-based. MBA courses are further enhanced by classmates who will share professional experiences, making class discussions more applicable and dynamic. Our compressed core course schedule is designed for you to build the most essential business skills fast. Even without waiving core courses, you'll take electives during the first year to be prepared for your internships. What's the typical student profile in the program? We have a wide variety of students with different academic and professional backgrounds. For more information, visit our class profile page. Do I need to know what job I want before I start? No, it is quite common for MBA students to go through a "discovery period" during their first semester. To help you define both your internship experience and your post-MBA plans, you will work with career and academic advisors, attend company presentations, talk with faculty and second-year students, and take a variety of elective coursework. Here at Scheller College we recognize "pivoting" careers is a high priority for many students and offer several resources to find your true passion. Do I have to declare a concentration? One official concentration (four courses) is required of all MBA students Can I start the Full-time MBA program in the spring semester? No. The Full-time MBA program enrolls once per year with classes starting every August. Applications are only accepted for the fall semester. The Evening MBA program accepts applications for both the spring and fall semesters. Can I complete the MBA program on a part-time or distance-learning basis? The Full-time MBA program is a two-year, full-time program only. The Evening MBA program follows a part-time flexible format. Classes are held in the evening, allowing working professionals to complete their studies at their own pace. However, all classes are held on campus; there is no distance-learning option for the Full-time and Evening MBA programs. If not already living local in the Atlanta area, students would need to plan to be in Atlanta for all classes, regardless of program choice. How many credit hours are required to earn an MBA at Georgia Tech? 54 credit hours are required to earn an MBA at Georgia Tech. Students will take 12 core courses (21 credit hours) and choose 11 electives (33 credit hours). I am a student in another graduate program at Georgia Tech. Can I take MBA courses? Yes, select courses are available to non-MBA students at Georgia Tech. Students enrolled in another graduate program at Georgia Tech may register for a maximum of nine hours of MBA elective courses. If you're interested in pursuing an MBA in addition to your other graduate degree, learn more about dual degree. I completed Georgia Tech MBA courses while I was enrolled in another graduate program at Georgia Tech. If I enroll in the MBA program, will the courses apply toward earning my MBA? Yes, if the MBA courses did not count as credit hours for another graduate degree, and the courses were completed within six years prior to earning the MBA degree. The same course is not able to satisfy requirements for multiple degrees unless you are a dual degree student. Dual degree students must be admitted to the MBA program before completing their other graduate degree program in order for any courses to count toward both degrees. Up to nine credit hours of eligible coursework completed before you enrolled in the MBA program can be applied toward earning your MBA degree. How do I learn more? Once you have narrowed your list of potential MBA programs, you should schedule a campus visit, if possible. Each program has its own distinct personality and while it's important to select programs that will help you in achieving your career goals, the emotional part of your decision is also significant. Visit a class, talk with current students, faculty, and career services staff, and tour Scheller College. We are excited to meet you and share with you what makes Scheller College of Business so unique. Request program information To request a brochure, complete the request more information form. Attend an on-campus MBA information session MBA information sessions are held at the Scheller College of Business year-round. Attending is a great way to meet students, admissions staff, and faculty members while learning about the program. Class visit Schedule a Full-time MBA class visit during fall and spring semesters. Choose from a variety of classes and experience the program firsthand. Meet an Ambassador Interested in hearing from a current student what they love about Scheller College and why they chose Georgia Tech? Connect with an Ambassador! Off-campus events Unable to visit us in Atlanta? We participate in many national MBA fairs, host coffee chats in select cities, and Full-time MBA information session webinars year-round. View our upcoming event schedule. Where is the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business MBA Admissions Office located? The MBA Admissions Office is located on the third floor in suite 302 of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Our complete address is: Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business 800 West Peachtree Street, NW Suite 302 Atlanta, GA 30308-1149 The Scheller College of Business is located within Technology Square, a multi-building complex of facilities located in Midtown Atlanta that includes the Global Learning Center, the Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center, the Economic Development Institute, and the Georgia Tech Bookstore. View an interactive map of the Georgia Tech campus. International Applicants Who is considered an international applicant? Georgia Tech considers you an international applicant if you are neither a U.S. citizen nor a U.S. permanent resident, regardless of where in the world you live. What is the admissions process for international applicants? International applications are evaluated in the same manner as U.S. applicants. Non-United States citizens may need to submit English proficiency scores from TOEFL or IELTS exams in accordance with Georgia Tech's Graduate Studies English Proficiency Policy. Application processing may take longer due to the review of foreign academic transcripts and financial documents. We strongly encourage all international applicants to submit application materials early to expedite the admissions process. Who is required to take an English language proficiency test? Applicants who are not citizens or permanent residents of the United States, or of a country where English is not the sole official language of instruction, and who have not successfully completed at least one year of study at an accredited university in the United States must submit a valid TOEFL or IELTS score. Countries where English is the sole official language of instruction include Australia, Bahamas, Barbados, Bermuda, Belize, Canada — except Québec, Cayman Islands, Ghana, Guam, Ireland, Jamaica, Kenya, Liberia, New Zealand, Nigeria, Scotland, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Singapore, Trinidad & Tobago, Uganda, United Kingdom, and Wales. Scores are valid for two years. Graduate Studies English Proficiency Policy Find a testing center and register for the TOEFL test. Find a testing center and register for the IELTS test. What is the minimum TOEFL or IELTS scores needed to be admitted? The minimum TOEFL score is 95 on the internet-based test (iBT). The minimum IELTS score is an overall score of 7 with minimum section scores for reading 6.5, listening 6.5, speaking 6.5, and writing 5.5. I want to send my official TOEFL or IELTS score to Georgia Tech. What is your institute code and department code? Institute Code: 5248 Department Code: 02 If you are taking the IELTS please search on "Georgia Institute of Technology" then choose "Graduate" to have your scores sent to Georgia Tech. Is financial aid available for non-United States citizens? All applicants, including international students, are considered for funding. The primary form of funding for non-U.S. citizens is graduate assistantships (GRA). Funding is limited and is awarded based on merit. International students are not eligible for federal or state financial aid programs. A variety of privately funded loan programs may be available — view the international student page on Georgia Tech's Office of International Education website. How do I receive a visa? All non-U.S. citizens must provide a certified financial statement outlining the financial resources available to them for their study in the United States. No visa documents will be issued until the Graduate Studies Office receives documentation that the applicant has sufficient resources to meet the expenses for at least the first year of graduate study at Georgia Tech. Certification of the availability of these funds must be included after admission and confirmation of intent to enroll. All documents must be originals. No photocopies or faxes will be accepted. If a person or organization will be providing the funds on the student's behalf, an official letter of support from the sponsor is required. The letter should include the full name of the sponsor, his/her relationship to the applicant, and the amount and length of the support. Georgia state legislature approves tuition amounts annually in April; I-20 processing begins each May. The I-20s will be delivered to the student via express mail. For more information on I-20 processing, visit the Office of International Education process for issuing a graduate I-20 page. A certified financial statement must: Show available funds Be dated within six months of our receipt of your application Be legible and in English Show the equivalent of a U.S. dollar figure for the date of the statement, if funds are held in another currency For more information on financial document requirements visit the Office of International Education financial document requirements page. What are the educational or degree requirements for admission to the MBA program? All applicants to the MBA program must hold the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree to be considered for admission. A three-year degree is not equivalent to the U.S. bachelor's degree. While an additional Masters degree might improve likelihood of eligibility, neither professional designations nor work experience will count toward the fourth year of study. Additional information about this policy and the approved credential evaluation services that Georgia Tech Graduate Studies will consider can be found here. What academic documents are required for application to the program? The Georgia Tech Graduate Studies Office requires the following documents from international applicants: Official Native Language Transcripts Official English Translation of the Native Language Transcript Official Native Language Degree Documents Official English Translation of the Native Language Degree Document For more information, visit the Georgia Tech Graduate Studies website. Is the Scheller MBA STEM-designated? Effective May 31, 2022, the MBA program is recognized as a Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) degree. International students graduating with an MBA degree after this date will be eligible to apply for a two-year Optional Practical Training (OPT) extension. Reapplication & Readmission What is your policy on deferred admission? Generally, admission can be deferred for one year. If you are admitted and want to defer your admission, contact us online or call 404.894.8722 for more information. If I have applied for admission previously, do I need to submit application materials again? We keep your application for one year. If you are reapplying in the year immediately following your initial application, you will not need to resubmit the full application. You should submit a letter of reconsideration and an updated resume to us at mba@scheller.gatech.edu. If it has been more than a year since you first applied, you must resubmit your application. If I am not accepted and wish to re-apply for the next year, what advice can you give me to help me improve my application? Applicants interested in having their applications reconsidered for the next admissions year should submit a letter of reconsideration, as well as an updated resume. The letter should address steps taken to improve the new application [e.g., new test scores (GMAT, GRE, or TOEFL), additional coursework, additional work experience, etc.] If I am not accepted, may I get feedback on my application? Due to the volume of applications, we regret we are not able to provide individual feedback to candidates who have been declined. To make a self-assessment about the decision, declined applicants are encouraged to view the admitted students' class profile and make an assessment of their own application given the following criteria: clear communication throughout the admissions process about career goals, Georgia Tech interest, personal strengths, and professional and leadership experiences; English proficiency; quantitative and analytical aptitude; noteworthy academic achievement, impressive career results, and GMAT/GRE scores that are close to, or exceed, the median scores of the previous entering class. Are re-applicants at a disadvantage because they applied previously? No. Each application is reviewed on its own merits. Take action Request More Info Attend an Info Session Meet Us Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures