Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports UW News Menu About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports Home UW News UW in the media UW researchers respond to novel coronavirus (COVID-19) UW researchers respond to novel coronavirus (COVID-19) Close Menu Home UW in the media Opinion and analysis UW researchers respond to novel coronavirus (COVID-19) COVID-19 experts for reporters Below are the most recent stories of UW experts commenting on the novel coronavirus epidemic In addition to UW researchers from a variety of disciplines offering their expertise to journalists covering the novel coronavirus, UW Medicine researchers are leading the way in the detection and prevention of COVID-19 and other coronaviruses. In fact, our researchers have sequenced COVID-19’s genome, identified the architecture and mechanisms of COVID-19, created a new laboratory test to expedite diagnostics and are crowd-sourcing a cure, among other efforts. This page is updated every week day. For more information on the coronavirus, visit uw.edu/coronavirus. Some of the stories below may require a third-party subscription. A surge in NYC COVID cases sparked a red alert and a debate over masking — but are the numbers even accurate? | New York Daily News3 days ago New data showing a surge in New York COVID cases triggered a jump in the city’s alert status and debate over how best to respond — but the actual number of infected people is likely significantly higher than official numbers show. Ali Mokdad, professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is quoted. When will we know if COVID is seasonal? | ABC News3 days ago COVID-19 may indeed become a seasonal illness with predictable patterns of infection — but it's not there yet, epidemiologists and infectious disease experts say. Ali Mokdad, professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is quoted. Gov. Jay Inslee tests positive for COVID-19 | KIRO Radio4 days ago Dr. Peter Rabinowitz, professor of environmental and occupational health science at the UW, says Gov. Inslee's positive test result for COVID-19 is a reminder that we are not out of the woods when it comes to COVID-19, and people need to continue to be careful. Schools reinstate mask mandates as COVID-19 cases rise | Time5 days ago Several school districts are requiring masks again in response to rising COVID-19 cases, part of a nationwide spike attributed to the highly contagious Omicron subvariants. Brandon Guthrie, assistant professor of global health and of epidemiology at the UW, is quoted. 1 of 5 with COVID-19 may develop long COVID, CDC finds — though vaccination may offer some protection, study suggests | Forbes5 days ago One in five Covid-19 survivors may develop symptoms of long Covid, or long-term symptoms, according to a new study from the Centers for Disease Control, though vaccinations may cut the risk of symptoms by 15%, another study of more than 13 million veterans conducted by researchers at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis found. The UW School of Medicine is referenced. Pfizer warns of “constant waves” of COVID as complacency grows | Ars Technica5 days ago Growing complacency about COVID-19 and politicization of the pandemic response will cost lives as the world is hit by new waves of the virus in the coming months, Pfizer’s chief executive has warned. Nancy Jecker, professor of bioethics and humanities in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. ‘You want your life back’: 20% of people who get sick have ‘long COVID’ and it can be debilitating | KIRO 75 days ago A new report from the CDC says 1 in 5 adults who contracted COVID-19 experienced “long COVID” or “post-COVID conditions.” It means symptoms like debilitating fatigue that last for months or even longer. UW Medicine’s Post-COVID Rehabilitation and Recovery Clinic is one of about 65 specialized COVID-19 clinics across the United States and was one of the first in the country to open up. Dr. Janna Friedly, professor of medicine and of rehabilitation medicine in the UW School of Medicine, is interviewed. Officials: Masks back on as COVID-19 rises again | MSNBC1 week ago Dr. Vin Gupta, affiliate assistant professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, says that we are underestimating cases, but there is good news that hospitalizations and deaths are down. He also discusses monkeypox. COVID rates going up | Northwest News Radio1 week ago Dr. John Lynch, professor of medicine in the UW School of Medicine, says that people should focus on keeping themselves and their communities safe, because COVID-19 cases are underreported. Kids ages 5 to 11 can get boosters | Northwest News Radio1 week ago Ali Mokdad, professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, says that we have the ability to prevent mortality and hospitalizations, but people question what's in COVID-19 vaccines and antivirals. CDC advisers urge Pfizer booster for children ages 5 to 11 | KING 51 week ago CDC advisers hope that an extra shot will shore up COVID-19 protection for kids ages 5 to 11, as infections once again are on the rise. Dr. Beth Ebel, professor of pediatrics in the UW School of Medicine, is interviewed. Latest COVID-19 surge in US is drastically undercounted | US News1 week ago Federal health officials this week warned Americans that coronavirus cases are at a high level, but with a caveat: Estimates are sure to be a significant undercount of the true infections. The UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation is quoted. Researchers testing COVID-19 antiviral drug | Northwest News Radio1 week ago Dr. Christopher Murray, director of the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, says that access to COVID-19 antiviral drugs makes a profound difference in saving lives around the world. CDC advisors recommend booster shot for children ages 5 to 11 | The Washington Post1 week ago The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended Thursday that children ages 5 to 11 get a third dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine to boost their immunity as cases and hospitalizations tick upward in many pockets of the United States. Dr. Beth Bell, clinical professor of global health at the UW, is quoted. With COVID cases on rise again, did WA lift mask mandate too soon? | MyNorthwest1 week ago It’s been nearly two months since Washington state lifted its indoor mask mandate, and cases are creeping back up again. Pavitra Roychoudhury, acting instructor of laboratory medicine and pathology in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. Several COVID test sites closing | KIRO 72 weeks ago Dan Bustillos, assistant professor of nursing and health studies at UW Bothell, says he thinks phasing out COVID test sites gradually is the right thing to do to. COVID modelers say to expect new COVID-19 variant | Northwest News Radio2 weeks ago Dr. Christopher Murray, director of the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, says we should recognize the threat of a new COVID-19 variant or new pandemics in the future. The pandemic’s true health cost: how much of our lives has COVID stolen? | Nature2 weeks ago Researchers are trying to calculate how many years have been lost to disability and death. Dr. Theo Vos, professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is quoted. Pfizer's tight rein on COVID-19 pill stymies research | Bloomberg2 weeks ago Pfizer is resisting requests for study supplies of its COVID-19 pill, Paxlovid, disappointing researchers who say combining the $22 billion therapy with other drugs might stave off resistance. Stephen Polyak, research professor of laboratory medicine and pathology in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. Omicron breakthrough cases boost protection, studies say | WebMD2 weeks ago Vaccinated people who have a breakthrough case of Omicron will have better protection against COVID-19 variants than vaccinated people who receive a booster shot, two new studies show. David Veesler, associate professor of biochemistry in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. Lexi Walls, principal scientist in The Veesler Lab, is referenced. Local school closed due to COVID-related vacancies | Northwest News Radio2 weeks ago Dr. John Lynch, professor of medicine in the UW School of Medicine, says there is a lot of COVID-19 in the community right now. COVID-19 cases are on the rise in the Northwest | KXL2 weeks ago Pavitra Roychoudhury, acting instructor of laboratory medicine and pathology in the UW School of Medicine, says COVID-19 cases are rising, because we are facing a highly transmissable variant. Studies: Getting sick from omicron protects vaccinated better than second booster | KIRO 72 weeks ago For those who are vaccinated and boosted, but contract the COVID-19 omicron variant, the natural protection the infection provides is more potent than getting a second booster shot, two recent studies seem to show. David Veesler, associate professor of biochemistry in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. COVID cases, hospitalizations rising in western Washington | KIRO 72 weeks ago As the country marks 1 million COVID-19 deaths, cases and hospitalizations are rising again in Western Washington. Pavitra Roychoudhury, acting instructor of laboratory medicine and pathology in the UW School of Medicine, is interviewed. Omicron breakthrough infection can provide a better immune response than booster, studies show | Fortune2 weeks ago With Omicron subvariants causing COVID cases to jump nationwide, two new studies offer a small consolation for vaccinated individuals who suffer breakthrough infections. The infection leaves you with protections that may be more effective than those offered by a second booster. One study was conducted by German biotechnology company BioNTech SE and the second by the University of Washington in collaboration with San Francisco-headquartered Vir Biotechnology. Local doctor thinks we've underestimated American deaths from COVID-19 | KIRO Radio2 weeks ago Dr. John Lynch, professor of medicine in the UW School of Medicine, says he thinks that 1 million deaths of Americans from COVID-19 is an underestimate. How omicron infection turbo-charges vaccinated people’s immunity | Bloomberg2 weeks ago People who are vaccinated and then get infected with omicron may be primed to overcome a broad range of coronavirus variants, early research suggests. David Veesler, associate professor of biochemistry in the UW School of Medicine, and Lexi Walls, principal scientist in The Veesler Lab, are quoted. As overtime costs mount, some Spokane City Council members mull asking to rehire unvaccinated firefighters | The Spokesman-Review2 weeks ago Facing a potential cost of millions of dollars to cover firefighting shifts this year, three Spokane City Council members signed on last week to a plea to city administration to consider rehiring Fire Department staff let go or reassigned after they refused to receive the COVID-19 vaccine. Jesse Erasmus, acting assistant professor of microbiology in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. Northshore Labs tested across Nevada — its COVID-19 tests didn’t work | ProPublica2 weeks ago State and local officials across Nevada signed agreements with Northshore Clinical Labs, a COVID testing laboratory run by men with local political connections. There was only one problem: Its tests didn’t work. Dr. Alex Greninger, assistant professor of laboratory medicine and pathology in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. Doctors say COVID re-infections stem from waning immunity | KOMO 42 weeks ago Doctors say those re-infections are happening at an alarming rate because immunity is waning. Immunity from previous infections and immunity from vaccines just isn't cutting it with the latest variants. Pavitra Roychoudhury, acting instructor of laboratory medicine and pathology in the UW School of Medicine, is interviewed. US has hit 1 million COVID deaths, but the number is likely higher | ABC News2 weeks ago The United States hit the tragic milestone of 1 million COVID-19 deaths on Thursday, according to the White House, but researchers say the actual pandemic death toll — including people who died from the pandemic's collateral damage — is actually much higher. Haidong Wang, associate professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is quoted. How a tumultuous school year for Seattle students sparked a movement to demand change | The Seattle Times2 weeks ago Over the course of the pandemic, Seattle students have endured online classes, missed out on senior-year milestones, scrambled to adjust for last-minute school cancellations, and lived through dramatic spikes in COVID-19 cases at schools. All the uncertainty and fear brought them together. They formed a new group, the Seattle Student Union, to fight for change and equity, organized shortly after winter break ended — when COVID cases were at an all-time high. Ann Ishimaru, associate professor of education at the UW, is quoted. Washington doctors concerned over rise in COVID hospitalizations | FOX 133 weeks ago On the path forward and out of the pandemic, the line looks a little blurry as COVID cases continue to rise in Western Washington, and local doctors are sounding the alarm as hospitalizations are on the rise. Dr. John Lynch, professor of medicine in the UW School of Medicine, and Dr. Patrick Mathias, associate director of informatics for UW Laboratory Medicine, are quoted. The US is about to make a big gamble on our next COVID winter | The Atlantic3 weeks ago Experts are expected to choose a vaccine recipe for the fall, when Omicron may or may not still be the globe’s dominant variant. The UW's Allison Greaney, a graduate student in genome sciences, Marion Pepper, associate professor of immunology in the UW School of Medicine, and Lexi Walls, principal scientist in The Veesler Lab, are quoted. Most COVID transmission is still asymptomatic | ABC News3 weeks ago A cough or sneeze in the checkout line at the grocery store may elicit fear of COVID-19, but that maskless person quietly sitting next to you on the subway could pose just as much of a threat, public health experts say. A significant proportion of COVID-19 transmission is asymptomatic or presymptomatic — potentially as high as 60%, according to a 2021 JAMA Network Open modeling study. Dr. Helen Chu, associate professor of medicine in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. Health care worker turnover | ABC News3 weeks ago A study from the UW and University of Minnesota found that 1.5 million health care workers left the workforce during the first wave of the pandemic. [This is an ABC News broadcast on KIFI] Famed Chicago alt-weekly barely survives a COVID-19 scare | The Nation3 weeks ago The Chicago Reader has just survived a near-death experience by the skin of its battered and chipped teeth. The 51-year-old alternative weekly was headed to oblivion because one of its co-owners reneged on an agreement to let it transition to nonprofit status. As a condition of signing off on the deal, he wanted the co-publisher dismissed. Rachel Moran, a postdoctoral researcher at the UW Center for an Informed Public, is quoted. People who never get the coronavirus could teach us more about coronavirus | The Washington Post3 weeks ago Scientists are turning their attention to finding the rare individuals who have not yet contracted the virus. Dr. Christopher Murray, director of the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is quoted. Coronavirus wave this fall could infect 100 million, administration warns | The Washington Post3 weeks ago The Biden administration is warning the United States could see 100 million coronavirus infections and a potentially significant wave of deaths this fall and winter, driven by new omicron subvariants that have shown a remarkable ability to escape immunity. Ali Mokdad, professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is referenced. WHO report finds nearly 15 million deaths associated with COVID-19 worldwide | PBS NewsHour3 weeks ago Nearly 15 million people around the world have died from COVID's impact, directly or indirectly, during the first two years of the pandemic, according to a new World Health Organization report. Jonathan Wakefield, professor of statistics and of biostatics at the UW, is interviewed. UW bioethicist calls for justice in distributing global COVID treatments | NW Asian Weekly3 weeks ago Nancy Jecker, professor of bioethics and humanities in the UW School of Medicine and Fulbright U.S. Scholar for South Africa, argues that the kind of solidarity that exists in the family is a good “starting point” for the way we should think about global interdependence. A COVID mystery: Why do some people never get sick even when exposed | KOMO 44 weeks ago A big mystery of the COVID-19 pandemic that researchers are baffled by is that some people are exposed to the virus but never get sick even as others are diagnosed with it multiple times, despite being vaccinated. Michael Gale, professor of immunology in the UW School of Medicine, is interviewed. WHO: Nearly 15 million deaths associated with COVID-19 | Associated Press4 weeks ago The World Health Organization estimates that nearly 15 million people were killed either by coronavirus or by its impact on overwhelmed health systems during the first two years of the pandemic, more than double the current official death toll of over 6 million. A study by the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation is referenced. WHO: Nearly 15 million deaths associated with COVID-19 during pandemic’s first 2 years | US News4 weeks ago The true death toll of the COVID-19 pandemic exceeds the official number by millions, according to a new report from the World Health Organization. A study by the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation is referenced. COVID-19 has killed 15 million people worldwide, WHO says | BuzzFeed News4 weeks ago The UN’s health agency has embraced statistical methods that put the true toll of the pandemic at around 15 million. Will it shock nations that are denying the severity of COVID-19 into action? Jonathan Wakefield, professor of statistics and of biostatics at the UW, is quoted. COVID: World’s true pandemic death toll nearly 15 million, says WHO | BBC News4 weeks ago The COVID-19 pandemic has caused the deaths of nearly 15 million people around the world, the World Health Organization estimates. Jonathan Wakefield, professor of statistics and of biostatics at the UW, is quoted. COVID's toll in US reaches 1 million deaths, a once unfathomable number | NBC News4 weeks ago The U.S. on Wednesday surpassed 1 million Covid-19 deaths, according to data compiled by NBC News — a once unthinkable scale of loss even for the country with the world's highest recorded toll from the virus. Dr. Christopher Murray, director of the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is quoted. Daily COVID infections are rising | Northwest News Radio4 weeks ago Dr. John Lynch, professor of medicine in the UW School of Medicine, says we're in some kind of COVID surge, but it's unclear how serious the surge is. Anchorage COVID-19 clinic that operated out of former hotel faces scrutiny | Anchorage Daily News4 weeks ago Not many people had heard of an Anchorage company called WEKA before it set up shop at a makeshift clinic in a former hotel owned by the city last fall, administering a coronavirus treatment called monoclonal antibodies at the height of a crushing pandemic surge. Even after the WEKA clinic shut down in March as demand for the treatment waned, questions lingered. Dr. Erika Lease, associate professor of medicine in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. UW Medicine creates COVID vaccine | KTVB4 weeks ago Marcos Miranda, a research scientist at the UW Institute for Protein Design, says the new vaccine is taking a modern spin on old technology and that it mimics the mutations of proteins on the virus. Opinion: Better vaccines are in sight — for the next pandemic | Bloomberg4 weeks ago "Arcturus Therapeutics, a San Diego biotech company, may have just laid out a template for how to make vaccines for the next pandemic. Its new vaccine, which uses self-copying mRNA, appears to work well against current strains of COVID-19. It’s just that the product is coming in too late to matter in the current pandemic," writes columnist Lisa Jarvis. Deborah Fuller, professor of microbiology in the UW School of Medicine, is referenced. Clearing the air is key to battling COVID; King County offers free filters, but more aid is needed | The Seattle Times4 weeks ago Efforts to ventilate and filter indoor air is part of a new stage of the COVID-19 pandemic that Washington, along with much of the United States, is moving toward after the omicron variant infected vast swaths of the population. Marissa Baker, assistant professor of environmental and occupational health sciences at the UW, is quoted. South Africa’s latest surge is a possible preview of the pandemic’s next chapter | The New York Times4 weeks ago Coronavirus cases are surging again in South Africa, and public health experts are monitoring the situation, eager to know what’s driving the spike, what it says about immunity from previous infections and what its implications are globally. Ali Mokdad, professor of health metrics sciences at the UW Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, is referenced. New omicron subvariant in Washington | KOMO 41 month ago Pavitra Roychoudhury, acting instructor of laboratory medicine and pathology in the UW School of Medicine, says the news about the transmissibility of the new COVID-19 subvariant is a reminder that COVID-19 isn't done with us yet, even though it might feel that way. Opinion: Did faulty assumptions dash parents’ hope for an under-5 vaccine? | The New York Times1 month ago "Seventeen months after a Covid vaccine was first authorized for American adults, parents are still waiting for the government to authorize one for children under 5. Some frustrations and setbacks may have been unavoidable, but some seems due to officials making unjustified assumptions about the public and relying on overly narrow and even outdated measures of vaccine benefits," writes columnist Zeynep Tufekci. Marion Pepper, associate professor of immunology in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. Administration expands availability of COVID antiviral pill | KIRO 71 month ago President Joe Biden’s administration is taking steps to expand availability of the life-saving COVID-19 antiviral treatment Paxlovid, seeking to reassure doctors that there is ample supply for people at high risk of severe illness or death from the virus. Rupali Jain, a clinical pharmacist at UW Medicine, is interviewed. Dr. Shireesha Dhanireddy, professor of medicine in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. University of Washington creates new COVID-19 vaccine | MyNorthwest1 month ago A COVID-19 vaccine, developed at the School of Medicine, has been proven safe and effective in late-stage clinical testing. Neil King, assistant professor of biochemistry in the UW School of Medicine, and David Veesler, associate professor of biochemistry in the UW School of Medicine, are quoted. UW researchers have developed COVID-19 vaccine | KXL1 month ago A new COVID-19 vaccine, which uses a different technology than Pfizer's and Moderna's vaccines, has gone through a Phase III trial. The UW is planning on licensing the technology royalty-free throughout the pandemic. UW researchers say they've come up with new type of COVID-19 vaccine | KAPP/KVEW1 month ago Neil King, assistant professor of biochemistry in the UW School of Medicine, says they are also working to create a vaccine that protects against many SARS-CoV viruses. The hope is that we can prevent the next pandemic instead of responding to it. [King is not identified in the clip] UW-developed COVID vaccine is safe | KING 51 month ago Late-stage clinical testing shows a COVID-19 vaccine developed at the UW School of Medicine is safe and effective. UW Medicine creates COVID vaccine | KTVB1 month ago The UW School of Medicine says that their COVID-19 vaccine has proven safe and effective at its last stage of clinical testing. Researchers at the UW develop new COVID-19 vaccine | Northwest News Radio1 month ago A new vaccine developed by protein engineers at UW Medicine uses tiny protein particles, not mRNA, to fight COVID-19. UW researchers have developed new kind of COVID-19 vaccine | KUOW1 month ago Neil King, assistant professor of biochemistry in the UW School of Medicine, says that the nanoparticle vaccine will probably have advantages in cost, production and storage stability, which means it may be easier to make on a scale and supply in the developing world. UW researchers have developed new type of COVID-19 vaccine that could help people in hard-to-reach places | KGMI1 month ago Neil King, assistant professor of biochemistry in the UW School of Medicine, says that the advantage of the nanoparticle vaccine is that it elicits a stronger immune response. UW Medicine vaccine development | KIRO 71 month ago The UW is closer to rolling out its own COVID-19 vaccine. The company leading the development, SK Bioscience, wants to seek authorization for use in South Korea. UW researcher focuses on global distribution of COVID-19 medical supplies | Northwest News Radio1 month ago Nancy Jecker, professor of bioethics and humanities in the UW School of Medicine, writes in a paper that governments and public health agencies need to commit to sharing resources to ensure that COVID-19 vaccine and supply shortages don't fall on low- and middle-income countries. COVID shots still work but researchers hunt new improvements | KIRO 71 month ago COVID-19 vaccinations are at a critical juncture as companies test whether new approaches like combination shots or nasal drops can keep up with a mutating coronavirus — even though it’s not clear if changes are needed. Dr. Beth Bell, clinical professor of global health at the UW, is quoted. University of Washington develops COVID-19 vaccine, South Korea to order 10M doses | KOMO 41 month ago The UW has developed a COVID vaccine and will soon have it shipped overseas for use. The vaccine, called GPB510, was developed at the UW School of Medicine along with SK bioscience, which is leading the clinical development. The two are seeking South Korea authorization for use within a month. David Veesler, associate professor of biochemistry in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. University of Washington creates new COVID-19 vaccine | The Olympian1 month ago The UW developed a vaccine for COVID-19 and plans to ship millions of doses to South Korea once it’s authorized, UW Medicine announced in an April 25 news release. David Veesler, associate professor of biochemistry in the UW School of Medicine, is quoted. [This story appeared in multiple outlets] UW Medicine's COVID-19 vaccine seeks authorization for use outside US | FOX 131 month ago UW Medicine's "second generation" COVID-19 vaccine is nearing the end of clinical testing, and may soon be administered in South Korea. More University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA