Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Alumni Menu Search AFTER THE HILLTOP SMU alumni are changing the world or, at least, making it a little bit better one graduate at a time. Find stories that showcase after the Hilltop happenings here. We are SMU Alumni For all who leave the Hilltop but for whom the Hilltop never leaves, this is our creed. We are bold, curious and creative individuals who are driven to think big and do good. We are courageous changemakers, who work hard, play hard and strive to make the world a better place. We are champions for each other, our communities and the triumph of innovation in the face of challenge. We are primed to see the world as a place of limitless opportunities. We are SMU alumni. Quick Links Update your contact information View upcoming events Find a regional network Volunteer with SMU Events SMU Founders’ Day Weekend April 7-9, 2022SMU Chicago World Changers event April 24, 2022CHICAGO, IL View more events Mustangs in the Wild Sameer Paroo ’01 rides again Sameer Paroo ’01 is an “M” Award-winning, Toronto-born Mustang. read more News Breaking out on her own Creating generational wealth is Lacey A. Horn’s ’04, ’05 business and passion. Meet Malcolm McGuire Black Alumni of SMU Chair Malcolm McGuire ’14 is a leader with a passion for mentorship. SMU guide to Dallas If you haven’t been out and about in Dallas for a while, some things have changed. This quick guide provides tips on where to go and what to do, including classic Mustang favorites that are ready for your return. Photo by Ryan Duffy on Unsplash. Military alumni scholarships Celebrating brave and bold Mustangs who have served our country View all news Life After SMU SMU boasts some of the highest-paid graduates in the country and an outstanding post-graduation employment rate. EXPLORE SMU STORIES Alumni Garrett Haake ’07, MSNBC News Correspondent Alumni Bumble Founder and CEO, Whitney Wolfe Herd ’11 shares her SMU experience Alumni Tori Titmas ’15 Debuts New Movie on Amazon Prime Join SMU Network Your SMU experience doesn't end on graduation day. We pride ourselves on a successful and connected alumni network. Get Connected Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Groups and Networks Regional Alumni Networks Alumni Affinity Groups Golden Mustangs SMU Network Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Update your info Events Upcoming Events 50-Year Reunion Homecoming Distinguished Alumni Awards Taos Cultural Institute SMU Alumni Travel Program Volunteer Opportunities Alumni Board Young Alumni Board Black Alumni Board Hispanic Alumni Board Asian Pacific Islander Alumni Board Hilltop Volunteers Career Mentoring Admission Volunteers Class Ambassadors Regional Chapter Leaders News and Stories Featured Stories Mustangs in the Wild SMU News Class Notes SMU Magazine SMU Stories Resources Hegi Career Center Continuing Education Order a transcript SMU Bookstore Alumni Credit Card Alumni Insurance Program Refer a Mustang SMU Alumni Relations Giving Give now Alumni Giving SMU Giving Day Mustang Crowdfunding News Athletics SMU Store Cox Alumni Dedman Alumni Dedman Law Alumni Meadows Alumni Perkins Simmons Alumni Update your info Submit a class note Give Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search