Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Mission & Ministry Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Donate UMM Back Back Close About Overview Exploring Mission Prayer Map Division Staff Related Links BC's Jesuit, Catholic Roots About BC Heart of the Matter Departments & Programs Publications Donate UMM Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Prayer Map Home About Prayer Map About Exploring Mission Prayer Map Division Staff Prayer Map Finding God in all Places Finding God in all places is an Ignatian desire that calls us to look always for opportunities to experience the spirit working in our everyday lives. Finding times and places to do this can often seem a luxury in the hectic pace of contemporary life. This Prayer Map identifies several sites on the Boston College campuses where members of our community have found the space for cultivating the habit of reflection and prayer. These prayers, poems, and passages mirror experiences from a variety of religious traditions, and they invite you to your own prayer and reflection. May you find God in all things—and in all places. Labyrinth: Chestnut Hill Campus Labyrinth The love of our neighbor in all its fullness simply means being able to say: “What are you going through?” It is a recognition that the sufferer exists, not only as a unit in a collection, or a specimen from the social category labeled “unfortunate,” but as a person, exactly like us, who was one day stamped with aspecial mark by affliction. For an adolescent, capable of grasping this truth and generous enough to desire this fruit above all others, studies could have their fullest spiritual effect, quite apart from any particular religious belief. — Simone Weil Bench on Linden Lane: Chestnut Hill Campus Bench on Linden Lane What are you dreaming, Soldier, What is it you see? A tall grey Gothic tower, And a linden tree. You speak so sadly, Soldier, Sad and wistfully— I cannot hear the tower bell In the swirling sea. What meaning has it, Soldier, A tower bell, and tree? Nothing, nothing—only once It meant my life to me. — Thomas Heath St. Mary's Chapel: Chestnut Hill Campus St. Mary's Chapel Nothing is more practical than finding God, that is, falling in love in a quite absolute, final way. What you are in love with, what seizes your imagination, will affect everything. It will decide what will get you out of bed in the morning, what you will do with your evenings, how you will spend your weekends, what you read, who you know, what breaks your heart, and what amazes you with joy and gratitude. Fall in love, stay in love, and it will decide everything. — Pedro Arrupe Rose Garden: Chestnut Hill Campus Rose Garden It helps, now and then, to step back and take the long view. The Kingdom is not only beyond our efforts; it is beyond our vision. We accomplish in our lifetime only a tiny fraction of the magnificent enterprise that is the Lord’s work. We plant the seeds that one day will grow. We water seeds already planted knowing they hold future promise. We lay foundations that will need further development. We provide yeast that affects far beyond our capabilities We cannot do everything and there is a sense of liberation in realizing that. This enables us to do something, and to do it very, very well. — Oscar Romero Statue of the Blessed Mother: Chestnut Hill Campus Statue of the Blessed Mother Remember, O most gracious Virgin Mary, that never was it known that anyone who fled to your protection, implored your help, or sought your intercession, was left unaided. Inspired by this confidence, we fly unto you, O Virgin of virgins, our Mother. To you do we come, before you we stand, sinful and sorrowful. O Mother of the Word incarnate, despise not our petitions but in your mercy hear and answer us. — Memorare Lawn at Bapst Library: Chestnut Hill Campus Lawn at Bapst Library God, may He be exalted, cannot be comprehended by the intellect. None but Himself can comprehend what He is... Thus all the philosophers say: We are dazzled by His beauty, and He is hidden from us because of the intensity with which He becomes manifest, just as the sun is hidden to eyes that are too weak to apprehend it. The most apt phrase concerning this subject is the statement in the Book of Psalms, Silence is praise to You (65:2). Interpreted, this means, Silence with regard to You is praise. This is a most perfectly put phrase regarding this matter. — Maimonides Plaza in front of O'Neill Library: Chestnut Hill Campus Plaza in front of O'Neill Library The university remains the place where fundamental questions that touch the person and community can be aired, in the areas of economics, politics, culture, science, theology, the search for meaning. The university should be a bearer of human and ethical values; it should be the critical conscience of the society; it should illuminate with its reflection those who are addressing the problematic of the modern or postmodern society; it should be the crucible where the diverse tendencies in human thought are debated and solutions proposed. — Peter-Hans Kolvenbach Fulton Quad: Chestnut Hill Campus Fulton Quad The Angel of the Lord declared, “Hail, Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with you!” She replied: “Behold I am the handmaid of the Lord. Be it done unto me according to Your Will.” And the Word was made flesh, And dwelt among us. Pray for us, O holy Mother of God, that we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ. — Angelus The Chocolate Bar: Chestnut Hill Campus The Chocolate Bar Paperwork, cleaning the house, cooking the meals, dealing with innumerable visitors who come all through the day, answering the phone, keeping patience and acting intelligently, which is to find some meaning in all those encounters- these things, too, are the works of peace, and often seem like a very little way. — Dorothy Day St. Joseph's Chapel: Chestnut Hill Campus St. Joseph's Chapel Our prayer brings great joy and gladness to our Lord. He wants it and awaits it. So he says this, “Pray inwardly, even though you find no joy in it. For it does good, though you feel nothing, yes, even though you think you cannot pray. For when you are dry and empty, sick and weak, your prayers please me, though there be little enough to please you. All believing prayer is precious to me.” God accepts the good-will and work of his servants, no matter how we feel. — Julian of Norwich O'Connell House Grass Patio: Chestnut Hill Campus O'Connell House Grass Patio Summer ends now; now, barbarous in beauty, the stooks rise Around; up above, what wind-walks! What lovely behavior Of silk-sack clouds! has wilder, wilful-wavier Meal-drift moulded ever and melted across skies? I walk, I lift up, I lift up heart, eyes, Down all that glory in the heavens to glean our Saviour; And, eyes, heart, what looks, what lips yet gave you a Rapturous love’s greeting of realer, of rounder replies? And the azurous hung hills are his world-wielding shoulder Majestic- as a stallion stalwart, very-violet-sweet! These things, these things were here and but the beholder Wanting; which two when they once meet, The heart rears wings bold and bolder And hurls for him, O half hurls earth for him off under his feet. — Gerard Manley Hopkins St. Ignatius Church: Chestnut Hill Campus St. Ignatius Church We must remember that liberation is costly. It needs unity. We must hold hands and refuse to be divided. Let us be united, let us be filled with hope, let us be those who respect one another. — Desmond Tutu Williams-Welch Quad: Chestnut Hill Campus Williams-Welch Quad I cannot walk an inch without trying to walk to God. I cannot move a finger without trying to touch God. — Anne Sexton St. Ignatius: Chestnut Hill Campus St. Ignatius O Lord, You have searched me and known me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up; You understand my thoughts from afar. Even before there is a word on my tongue, Behold, O Lord, You know it all. For You formed my inward parts; You wove me in my mother’s womb. I will give thanks to You, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Search me, O God, and know my heart. — Psalm 139 Maloney Hall stained glass: Chestnut Hill Campus Maloney Hall Stained Glass Earth’s crammed with heaven, And every common bush afire with God; But only he who sees, takes off his shoes, The rest sit round it and pluck blackberries, And daub their natural faces unaware. — Elizabeth Barrett Browning Landing on the Higgins Stairs: Chestnut Hill Campus Landing on the Higgins Stairs May all beings be happy. May they live in safety and joy. All living beings, whether weak or strong, tall, stout, average or short, seen or unseen, near or distant, born or to be born, may they all be happy As a mother watches over her child, willing to risk her own life to protect her only child, so with a boundless heart should one cherish all living beings, suffusing the whole world with unobstructed loving kindness. — Gotama the Buddha St. Mary's Garth St. Mary's Garth Well, I don’t know what will happen now; we’ve got some difficult days ahead. But it really doesn’t matter with me now, because I’ve been to the mountaintop. And I don’t mind. Like anybody, I would like to live a long life—longevity has its place. But I’m not concerned about that now. I just want to do God’s will. And He’s allowed me to go up to the mountain. And I’ve looked over, and I’ve seen the Promised Land. I may not get there with you. But I want you to know tonight, that we, as a people, will get to the Promised Land. So I’m happy tonight; I’m not worried about anything; I’m not fearing any man. Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord. — Martin Luther King, Jr. Robsham Patio: Chestnut Hill Campus Robsham Patio Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. — Matthew 5:3–9 Corcoran Commons: Chestnut Hill Campus Corcoran Commons Oh God, Bless this food we are about to receive. Give bread to those who hunger; and hunger for justice to us who have bread. — A Grace before meals based on Ghandi’s principles Multi-Faith Center: Chestnut Hill Campus Multi-Faith Center More than ever I find myself in the hands of God. This is what I have wanted all my life from my youth. But now there is a difference; The initiative is entirely with God. It is indeed a profound spiritual experience to know and feel myself so totally in God’s hands. — Pedro Arrupe Residence Hall Reflection Space: Chestnut Hill Campus Residence Hall Reflection Space You, neighbor God, if sometimes in the night I rouse you with loud knocking, I do so only because I seldom hear you breathe; and I know: you are alone. And should you need a drink, no one is there to reach it to you, groping in the dark. Always I hearken. Give but a small sign. I am quite near. Between us there is but a narrow wall, and by sheer chance; for it would take merely a call from your lips or from mine to break it down, and that without a sound. The wall is builded of your images. They stand before you hiding you like names. And when the light with me blazes high that in my inmost soul I know you by, the radiance is squandered on their frames. And then my senses, which too soon grow lame, exiled from you, must go their homeless ways. — Rainer Maria Rilke Chestnut Hill Reservoir: Chestnut Hill Campus Chestnut Hill Reservoir See, in the creation of the heavens and the earth and the alternation of day and night there are signs for those with insight. — Qur’an 3:190 Evergreen Cemetery: Chestnut Hill Campus Evergreen Cemetery My song is love unknown, My Savior’s love to me, Love to the loveless shown That they might lovely be. O who am I that for my sake My Lord should take frail flesh and die? He came from His blest throne Salvation to bestow; But men made strange, and none The longed for Christ would know: But O! my Friend, my Friend indeed, Who at my need His life did spend. — Samuel Crossman Trinity Chapel: Newton Campus Trinity Chapel O eternal Trinity, my sweet love! You, light, give us wisdom. You, supreme strength, strengthen us. Today, eternal God, let our cloud be dissipated so that we may perfectly know and follow your truth, in truth, with a free and simple heart. — Catherine of Siena Trinity Chapel Choir Prayer Room: Newton Campus Trinity Chapel Choir Prayer Room Take, Lord, and receive all my liberty, my memory, my understanding, and my entire will, All that I have and possess. You have given all to me. To You, Lord, I return it. All is Yours. Dispose of it wholly according to Your will. Give me only Your love and Your grace. That is sufficient for me. — Ignatius Loyola Barat House Back Patio: Newton Campus Barat House Back Patio O God, I love Thee. Not for heaven’s sake; not to be out of hell by loving Thee; not for any gains I see; but just the way that Thou didst me I do love and I will love Thee: What must I love Thee, Lord, for then? For being my king and God. Amen. — Gerard Manley Hopkins Cross on the Hill: Newton Campus Cross on the Hill If you believe and I believe and we together pray, The Holy Spirit must come down and set God’s people free, and set God’s people free, and set God’s people free; The Holy Spirit must come down and set God’s people free. — Zimbabwe Folksong Cushing East Lawn: Newton Campus Cushing East Lawn God take me by Your hand. I shall follow You faithfully, and not resist too much, shall evade none of the tempests life has in store for me. I shall try to face it all as best I can. — Etty Hillesum Field on Colby Road: Newton Campus Field on Colby Road If you walk toward Him, He comes to you running. — Muhammad Brookside Path: Newton Campus Brookside Path Maybe I’m not making big changes in the world, but if I have somehow helped or encouraged somebody along the journey then I’ve done what I’m called to do. — Thea Bowman Back To Top Back To Top Division of Mission & Ministry Bourneuf House, 84 College Road Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Phone: 617-552-1603 About Heart of the Matter Departments & Programs Publications Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College