Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni TigerOne About the TigerOne ID Forward Arrow About the TigerOne ID Students Employees Affiliates, Emeritus, and Retirees TigerStripe Terms and Conditions Back Arrow Back TigerOne Mobile ID for Apple TigerOne Mobile ID for Android Building Access Forward Arrow Building Access Troubleshoot Access Issues BSC Support Forward Arrow BSC Support Door and Camera Support Door Schedules After Hours Support Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Manage Accounts Forward Arrow Manage Accounts Mark ID as Lost Online Photo Submission Deposits, Balances, and Transactions Back Arrow Back Contact TigerOne Forward Arrow Contact TigerOne Off-Campus TigerOne Liaisons TigerStripe Merchants Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close TigerOne About the TigerOne ID show submenu for About the TigerOne ID Students Employees Affiliates, Emeritus, and Retirees TigerStripe Terms and Conditions TigerOne Mobile ID for Apple TigerOne Mobile ID for Android Building Access show submenu for Building Access Troubleshoot Access Issues BSC Support show submenu for BSC Support Door and Camera Support Door Schedules After Hours Support Manage Accounts show submenu for Manage Accounts Mark ID as Lost Online Photo Submission Deposits, Balances, and Transactions Contact TigerOne show submenu for Contact TigerOne Off-Campus TigerOne Liaisons TigerStripe Merchants Clemson Home Campus Life TigerOne Building Access Current: Troubleshoot Access Issues Troubleshoot Access Issues All students, employees and affiliates will automatically gain access to certain buildings during the building's specific open hours as disclosed by the department/Building Security Coordinator. If you find that you need specific access to a secured building or need access to an open building for a broader timeframe, contact the BSC. BSC contact information is listed on the Facilities webpage. Many issues with gaining access can be resolved by ensuring that you have properly added the TigerOne Mobile ID to your device and that you are presenting the device or card correctly to the reader. If you find that you are not getting access to a building or space during a time when you are expecting access, please follow the troubleshooting steps below. Presentation Methods iPhone Tap the phone's top to the reader. The top of the iPhone is where the NFC antennae is located. You do not need to wake up the phone as long as express mode is activated. Some phone cases can block the use of NFC. If your Mobile ID is not reacting, try removing the case to ensure this is not the cause of the issue. Apple Watch Tap the face of the watch to the reader. You do not need to wake up the watch as long as express mode is activated. Android Ensure your device is awake. Android devices can vary in the placement of the NFC antennae. Ensure NFC is turned on. Tap the top of the phone to the reader. If this does not work, tap the back body of the phone to the reader. Physical Card Tap the card on the reader. Ensure a wallet or bag does not block the card. TigerOne Mobile ID for Apple Ensure you are presenting the ID properly as described in the presentation methods above. If you present a Mobile ID and the reader does not react, open the Wallet app and ensure you have properly provisioned the Mobile ID. You will not see the TigerOne Mobile ID by double-clicking the side button. If you do not see the ID in the Wallet app, you have not added it to your in-hand device. See how to provision the TigerOne Mobile ID for Apple. TigerOne Mobile ID for Android Ensure you are presenting the ID properly as described in the presentation methods above. If you present a Mobile ID and the reader does not react, open the GET Mobile app. After logging into GET Mobile, try to present the ID to the reader again. Ensure you have properly provisioned the Mobile ID. In the GET Mobile app, you should see the status of your ID as “Mobile ID enabled.” If your ID says, “ID not added to phone” or “Mobile ID installed [not ready],” you have not added it to your in-hand device. See how to provision the TigerOne Mobile ID for Android. Physical Card 1. Ensure you are presenting the card properly as described in the presentation methods above. 2. Is the reader reacting when you present the card at all? If it is not, the chip in your card could be dead. You can test this by presenting your card to other readers. If no reader reacts to the presence of your card, the chip is most likely dead. You can request a new card by submitting a Broken Card Request. You will be required to hand in the old card or pay $30 for the new card. If the card has suffered abnormal wear and tear (holes, tearing, etc.), a $30 charge will be applied for the new card. 3. Is your card marked as lost? Check on the Credentials Management Page. The reader will react to the card, but access will be denied. 4. Are you using an old card? If you have had multiple TigerOne cards printed, only the most recently printed TigerOne card will be active. Ensure you are not using an old card. If the troubleshooting steps above did not resolve the issue, please contact TigerOne at TigerOneCard@clemson.edu. Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson