Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application Veteran and Military Students Online Application My Account Application Instructions Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us All veteran and military personnel applicants must complete an application for admission. You will need to meet admission requirements as outlined for either freshman or transfer students. If you have served, or are currently serving in the military, you will be required to submit your military transcripts when you apply for admission. If you are in any other branch of the military than the Air Force, you will need to provide a Joint Services Transcript (JST). Those serving in the Air Force will request a Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) transcript. Additional materials required will be determined by how many academic credits* you have completed at a regionally accredited college or university. If you have completed at least 24 graded, academic semester (36 quarter) credits*, you will be required to submit the following items in addition to your application for admission: Military transcripts (JST or CCAF) Transcripts from all colleges attended You will be required to have a cumulative transfer GPA of 2.00 in all academic courses* you have completed. If you have not completed at least 24 graded, academic semester (36 quarter) credits*, you will be required to submit the following items: High school transcript ACT or SAT test scores Military transcript (JST or CCAF) Transcripts from all colleges attended (if applicable) Your application will be reviewed on an individual basis. *Note: Career technical, development/remedial, and military credits do not count as academic credit. Apply Reentering Students If you were previously enrolled as a degree-seeking undergraduate at Iowa State and wish to return as an undergraduate after an absence of at least 12 months, you must apply as a reentering student. Military Credit Military transcripts will be evaluated for transfer based on the recommendations made by the American Council on Education's Guide to the Evaluation of Educational Experiences in the Armed Services. Credit awarded under the ACE guidelines fall under the category of credits for prior learning. Iowa State will allow a maximum of 60 credits of prior learning to satisfy a student's undergraduate degree requirements, of which no more than 32 credits may come from the credit by examination. Credit will be granted for the following recommendations: Vocational certificate Lower-division baccalaureate degree Upper-division baccalaureate degree The application of military credit toward your Iowa State degree will be determined by your academic department. Military Occupational Speciality (MOS): MOS courses are not accepted for transfer credit. Career and technical training: A maximum of 16 career-technical credits will be granted. This includes credit awarded for military vocational certificate recommendations and career-technical credit granted from regionally accredited colleges. Community College of the Air Force: Up to 16 career-technical credits will be granted. College-Level Examination Program (CLEP): Credit is granted for selected exams. Refer to our credit by examination page for more information. DANTES Standardized Subject Tests (DSST): Credit is not awarded for DSST exams. You can use the following resources to request your military transcript: Joint Services Transcript (JST) Community College of the Air Force Veterans Center The Veterans Center is a place where you can go for veteran-related questions and to connect with other veterans, military personnel, their families, and the Iowa State community. You've got questions. We've got answers. To use the FAQ, click on the question you would like answered. The answer will display below the question (close the answer by re-clicking same question). Do I apply as a freshman? You are considered a freshman if you are still a high school student or if you have not completed any college courses prior to entering Iowa State. Please refer to freshman admission requirements for additional information. Do I apply as a transfer student? If you have completed courses from a regionally accredited college or university after graduating from high school, apply as a transfer student. If you have earned less than 24 academic credits, you must also meet admission requirements for students entering directly from high school. View transfer admission requirements. How do I apply for admission? While you have the option of submitting a paper application for admission, we strongly encourage you to apply online – it's fast and convenient and you will receive an admission decision faster than if you were to apply with our paper application. Apply Do you accept military credits? Yes. See information in the section above. Who do I contact with questions about veterans benefits? Veterans certifying officials are available to assist you with questions about your benefits. Email them at veterans@iastate.edu with questions. Do you have student organizations for veterans and military students? Iowa State has several military student organizations for veterans as well as those in ROTC programs. What ROTC programs are offered? Iowa State has ROTC programs for Air Force, Army, and Navy. Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...