Skip to content Search CSHL … Search Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory About Us Contact Us Directions Leadership CSHL President CSHL Chief Operating Officer Administrative Departments Board of Trustees Divisions Size and Reach: 2020 Annual Reports History A Lab Like No Other Discoveries Timeline Institutes & Directors Timeline Nobel Prize Winners How one family secured the future of a laboratory Good genes, bad science Office of Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Careers Events Event Calendar Lectures Concerts Tour CSHL Newsstand CSHL Stories and Media News Features LabDish Blog Press Tools Harbor Transcript magazine Newsletter Podcast Library Video Library Logos/Graphic identity guidelines Partner With Us Business Development & Technology Transfer Technology Transfer Resources Office of Procurement Office of Sponsored Programs/Grants Preprints Careers Giving Donate Now Annual Giving Planned Giving Funds & Endowment Giving Calendar Double Helix Medals dinner Attend Press Package Double Helix Medals Dinner Video Past DHMD CSHL’s 28th Annual Golf Tournament Women’s Partnership for Science CSHL Association Directors Corporate Advisory Board Honor Roll of Donors Local Support News History Contact Giving Education Programs Undergraduate Research Program Partners for the Future CSHL Graduate Program Postdoc Resources Center for Humanities & History of Modern Biology Faculty Research Banbury Center CSHL Press DNA Learning Center Meetings & Courses Ph.D. Program Decoding how a protein on the move keeps cells healthy Read the story How tweaking genes keeps corn and rice on your plate Read the story How hormones define brain sex differences Read the story Previous Next Advancing the frontiers of biology through research & education Founded in 1890, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory has shaped contemporary biomedical research and education with programs in cancer, neuroscience, plant biology and quantitative biology. Home to eight Nobel Prize winners, the private, not-for-profit Laboratory employs 1,000 people including 600 scientists, students and technicians. The Meetings & Courses Program hosts more than 12,000 scientists from around the world each year on its campuses in Long Island and in Suzhou, China. The Laboratory’s education arm also includes an academic publishing house, a graduate school and programs for middle, high school, and undergraduate students and teachers. Donate Now Get To Know Us Giving News CSHL Helix Society member honors late wife May 24, 2022 Helix Society member John Broven recently visited CSHL to view a newly installed plaque placed in memory of his late wife. Read the story » Feature President’s essay: Foundations for the future May 25, 2022 Strategically designed to spark scientific exchange and inspiration, CSHL is a unique research and education environment for advancing science. Read the story » Research News CSHL neuroscientist named a Searle Scholar May 23, 2022 Assistant Professor Arkarup Banerjee receives a $300,000 award to study brain circuits involved in vocalization. Read the story » Participate Event Seminar series: “Life Science Across the Globe” 6/1 June 1, 2022 “Air quality and infectious disease”, hosted by the Institute of Infectious Disease and Molecular Medicine. Learn more » Event Saturday DNA!: A Royal Ruse June 4, 2022 Join the DNA Learning Center to learn all about the century-old royal mystery and the scientific evidence behind it. Learn more » Postdoctoral Postions CSHL is recruiting postdocs across all research areas. Learn about specific openings, and why CSHL is a great place to do your postdoctoral research. Learn more » hashtag icon Follow CSHL Main Menu About Events Newsstand Partner With Us Careers Giving Education Programs Faculty Divisions Research Banbury Center CSHL Press DNA Learning Center Meetings & Courses Program Ph.D. Program Resources CSHL Archives Library Preprints Whistleblower Policy (pdf) Contact 516-367-8800 info@cshl.edu Maps & Directions Donate Now Newsletter Connect with CSHL © 2022 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. All Rights Reserved. One Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, NY 11724 Sitemap | Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Our website uses cookies to enhance your experience on the site. By clicking "continue" or by continuing to use our website, you are agreeing to our use of cookies as detailed in our Privacy Policy. CONTINUE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT