COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Resources and Links Section Menu Accessibility at Wichita State University The Accessibility Committee Accessibility Report 2020 Accessibility For Face To Face Instruction Accessibility for Online Instruction Accessibility Training WSU Technology Audit Request Form EIT Corrective Action Strategy WSU Technology Corrective Action Strategy PDFs At WSU Looking Ahead Report an Accessibility Problem Resources and Links Faculty Senate Statement on Accessibility Accessibility Exceptions Is this Accessible? Accessibility FAQ Aira Access Accessible Publisher Software Accessibility Review Requests Aira Access at Wichita State Accessibility and Covid-19 Accessibility Report 2020 Instructor Accessibility Checklist The National Federation of the Blind (NFB) Agreement Wichita State Resolution Agreement (redacted for privacy) Other similar agreements and decisions: Southern Oregon University Atlantic Cape Community College Consent Decree Captions and Caption Accuracy Standards FCC Standards for Closed Captioning Accuracy (from NAD.org) WSU Resources Accessibility training outcomes and objectives for Wichita State. These outcomes and objectives are linked to WSU’s agreement with the National Federation of the Blind. This list should be very useful to schools attempting to create a complete accessibility training program for instructional staff. Guidelines for Face-to-Face Instruction. While guidelines for digital accessibility are pretty clear, there is much less regulation surrounding face-to-face instruction. Wichita State addresses these guidelines at two levels: “recommendations” and “expectations.” Recommendations describe a very high level of accessibility whereas expectations help to get people started creating an accessible face-to-face classroom. Technology Audit Rubric (multi-page google form). WSU conducted an audit of all EIT (Electronic and Information Technology) on campus as an element of the university’s response to the agreement. This is a link to the audit questions/criteria that were used, which were based on a mix of WCAG and ADA standards Educational Accessibility Technologist: We are providing this position description as a word document for easy of adaptation and editing. Adaptive Technology Specialist: We are providing this position description as a word document for easy of adaptation and editing. Training Opportunities KSARN.org, a web site created by WSU to share accessibility resources with other KBOR schools and the entire higher ed community, provides several short online training programs, including: Accessible Face-to-Face Presentations Creating Accessible Digital Documents Accessible Conference Presentations This course has two prerequisites: Accessible Face-to-Face Presentations and Creating Accessible Digital Documents. Introduction to Web Accessibility Impairment Awareness Offical Faculty and Staff training is available through myTraining. The "Accessibility Training for Faculty" training is a program which is required for everyone with an instructional role. Presentations, Powerpoints, and Documents Accessibility Update for the Faculty Senate (September 2018) (pptx) WSU College of Health Professions Training (pptx) General Accessibility Overview (pptx) Legal Landscape 2017 (pptx) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©