Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Department of Nutrition Department of Nutrition Menu Search for: Home Mission and History Faculty Researchers Staff Diversity and Inclusion Current Student Resources Doctor of Science (SD) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Funding Resources Predoctoral Training Grant in Academic Nutrition Prospective Student Resources MPH in Nutrition PhD, Population Health Sciences Nutritional Epidemiology Public Health Nutrition PhD, Biological Sciences of Public Health Interdisciplinary Concentrations Postdoctoral Fellowships Continuing Nutrition Education Initiatives and Collaborations Monday Nutrition Seminars and Events Department News Nutrition Newsletter The Nutrition Source Contact Us Understanding the relationships between nutrition, diet, genetics, and health. The mission of the Department of Nutrition at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health is to improve human health through better nutrition and lifestyle. The Department strives to accomplish this goal through research aimed at an increased understanding of how diet influences health at molecular and population levels, the development of nutritional strategies, informing policy, the education of researchers and practitioners, and the dissemination of nutrition information to health professionals and the public…read more about the Department of Nutrition. Earn a Harvard MPH in Nutrition Acquire skills in nutrition communication and practice along with foundational knowledge in nutritional science, epidemiology, and public health through this 65-credit program. Explore our PhD Programs Gain broad, interdisciplinary knowledge in quantitative and qualitative methods of enquiry for understanding the health of populations, and developmental approaches to population health science. 75th Anniversary of the Department Founded in 1942, the Department of Nutrition has a long and respected history both nationally and internationally. A look back on 75 years of research, education, and impact. The Nutrition Source Based in the Department of Nutrition, The Nutrition Source is a leading authority on food and nutrition knowledge, providing evidence-based guidance for healthy living. Features Open Position Currently seeking applicants for an Executive Director of a new Center focused on mindfulness and public health. In-person and online in 2022 Register now for the leading international conference on Teaching Kitchens, October 18-19. Healthy Living Guide 2021/2022 Explore the downloadable guide with tips and strategies for healthy eating and healthy living [via The Nutrition Source]. 7th Annual Nutrition Omics Symposium Advances, Applications, and Translations in Nutrition and Epidemiology. View the recording. Testing a new approach to treat severe acute malnutrition A study in Sokoto, Nigeria is exploring alternative ways to treat a condition affecting at least 50 million children each year. Food Insecurity, Inequality and COVID-19 View the event recording. Support Our Department Your gift will help bridge critical funding gaps for promising research initiatives, attract and support brilliant faculty members and students, and sustain day-to-day work. The Nutrition Source on TwitterMy Tweets Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College