Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ RLSH About Faculty-in-Residence Faculty-in-Residence Faculty living on-campus isn't a thing everywhere. At SMU, you get the unique experience of sharing life with faculty. Faculty-in-Residence (FiRs) contribute to academic life and culture in each of our 11 Residential Commons (RCs). Faculty-in-Residence live in our RCs, form strong connections with the residents, and are integral academic and community leaders. Faculty-in-Residence bridge the classroom experience by hosting regular conversations over a meal with students, inviting and hosting guest speakers, organizing and hosting community events and trips to landmarks of cultural, historical, and social significance in the greater Dallas/Fort Worth area. Learn more about our FIRs and their families who contribute to the vibrancy of campus life on the Hilltop. Willie Baronet Faculty-in-Residence, Armstrong Commons Willie Baronet was the owner/creative director of GroupBaronet from 1992-2006. His design and advertising work has been featured in Communication Arts, Graphis, AIGA, New York Art Directors, The One Show, The Type Directors Club and Annual Report Design: A Historical Retrospective 1510-1990, organized by the Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design. Willie is currently the Stan Richards Professor in Creative Advertising at SMU's Temerlin Advertising Institute, where he teaches classes related to creativity and portfolio development, and is the Faculty in Residence at Armstrong Commons. Email Professor Baronet Learn more about Professor Baronet and his family I am passionate about creativity, self expression, and encouraging my students to be themselves. I am curious, optimistic and a good listener, and want to help my students connect with what they are deeply passionate about. My WE ARE ALL HOMELESS project has taught me much about myself, and has informed one of my favorite assignments in Intro to Creativity, the DESIGN YOUR OWN LEGACY project. My hope is to bring all of me to my FiR role at Armstrong Commons. Willie Baronet was the owner/creative director of GroupBaronet from 1992-2006. His design and advertising work has been featured in Communication Arts, Graphis, AIGA, New York Art Directors, The One Show, The Type Directors Club and Annual Report Design: A Historical Retrospective 1510-1990, organized by the Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design. In 2013 he was given the AIGA Fellow award, the highest honor an AIGA chapter can bestow upon one of its members. He has spoken to dozens of business and creative organizations, including TEDx, AIGA, and the HOW Design Conference. Willie has been buying and collecting homeless signs since 1993 as part of a long term art project "WE ARE ALL HOMELESS." He was the subject of the documentary "Signs of Humanity" (on Amazon Prime), which has been in film festivals across the US and in Australia. The project has been featured in dozens of international and local media, including Yahoo! News, NPR - All Things Considered, The Huffington Post, Al Jazeera America and Fast Company’s blog, posted by Katie Couric. An UpWorthy video about the project has been viewed over 6.4 million times. His art installations have been featured in exhibits including “Art as a Medium for Action” at Hoxton Arches, London and Pembroke College, Cambridge, “Truth to Power” in Philadelphia in conjunction with the 2016 Democratic National Convention (which also featured Banksy and Shepard Fairey among others), and in cities across the U.S. from New York to Anchorage, AK. Willie studied Advertising Design at the University of Southwestern Louisiana, and graduated with an MFA in Arts and Technology from UTD in 2011. He has taught Advertising Design at Brookhaven Community College, Texas A&M at Commerce, TCU, and has served as visiting faculty for the MA Program at Syracuse University. Willie is currently the Stan Richards Professor in Creative Advertising at SMU's Temerlin Advertising Institute, where he teaches classes related to creativity and portfolio development, and is the Faculty-in-Residence at Armstrong Commons. Dr. Jack Levison Faculty-in-Residence, Boaz Commons Jack Levison is a long way from his native Long Island, so he pretends, when he rides his bike, that White Rock Lake is the Atlantic Ocean. He doesn’t have to pretend that he takes enormous pleasure in the company of his wife, Priscilla, or that living tooth to jowl with students is an exciting venture he never could have imagined when he was a college freshman himself. Jack has taught at colleges from coast to coast—from Durham, North Carolina, to Seattle, Washington—and he currently holds the W.J.A. Power Chair in Perkins School of Theology at SMU. Email Dr. Levison Learn more about Dr. Levison and his family “As a kid, I wanted to be an architect. Then I wanted to be a pilot. So what did I decide to do? To become a professor because, on my first day of class as a college freshman, I was mesmerized by my Greek teacher, who undid in about ten minutes just about everything I thought was rock solid. It was a thrill—the thrill of discovery. And I want to be part of the discovery that SMU students experience, whether we are sitting around Priscilla’s and my dinner table or on the front porch or in the lounge or under the shade of trees. There is so much to discover in life, in friends, in books, and especially in challenges. If life is about discovery, I feel like I’ve struck gold, and I’d like to be there with students as they make their own discoveries.” Jack Levison, Faculty-in-Residence in Boaz Commons Jack Levison is a long way from his native Long Island, so he pretends, when he rides his bike, that White Rock Lake is the Atlantic Ocean. He doesn’t have to pretend that he takes enormous pleasure in the company of his wife, Priscilla, or that living tooth to jowl with students is an exciting venture he never could have imagined when he was a college freshman himself. Jack has taught at colleges from coast to coast—from Durham, North Carolina, to Seattle, Washington—and he currently holds the W.J.A. Power Chair in Perkins School of Theology at SMU. Both of Priscilla and Jack’s adult children, Chloe and Jeremy, are SMU grads, and he imagines they’ll be lured back occasionally for Sunday Night Snacks or to sit under the beautiful trees that welcome Boazies home. Dr. Sandy Duhe Faculty-in-Residence, Cockrell-McIntosh Commons Sandy Duhé is a Louisiana native who is happiest in the classroom and the kitchen. Her earliest memories are of playing school with stuffed animals and willing relatives as her first students. After an extensive corporate career in the energy sector, she made the transition to teaching and came to SMU with husband Brad and children Byron and Mary Cathryn in 2012. Together, they’ve enjoyed creating a home away from home for Cockrell-McIntosh residents since 2018. Email Dr. Duhe Learn more about Dr. Duhe and her family “One of my favorite things about living in Cockrell-McIntosh is the sense of community and belonging we share. Food, fun, music, and memories are in plentiful supply and make CM a welcoming home for residents and visitors alike.” Sandy Duhé,Faculty-in-Residence in Cockrell-McIntosh Commons Sandy is associate professor and chair of the Division of Corporate Communication and Public Affairs in the Meadows School of the Arts, and Brad is a utilities right-of-way attorney with Verizon. The Duhés grew up in Louisiana, met in college, and started their careers in different areas of the oil and gas industry. Between the two of them, they have enough experience, graduate degrees, and contacts to help guide students along their own personal and professional journeys. Sandy and Brad enjoy every moment of serving and interacting with CM residents. Their son Byron attends Cistercian Preparatory School. He’s a man of few words, but big thoughts. Byron loves school. Really, really loves school. Along with Saints football, Boy Scouts, karate, and building anything with Lego blocks. Daughter Mary Cathryn crosses the street to attend McCullough Intermediate School. She’s a social butterfly, ballerina, singer, and writer. Mary Cathryn loves spending time with CM residents and counts them among her friends. Food is always in ample supply at FiR events. Favorite traditions include Cockrell Culinary Club when residents sign up to cook with Sandy, Cockrell Eats when Sandy and resident chefs serve a veritable feast for up to 100 residents on Sunday evenings, Pop-Up Dinners around a table of 12 when residents get to know (really) interesting people from campus and beyond, and Boulevarding on the CM front porch during Mustang football season when Sandy and Brad do all the cooking. The Duhés additionally host monthly Leadership Dinners in their home for the team of RAs, Commons Council officers, and other resident leaders who help make Cockrell such a special place to live and learn. Food and love are key ingredients in Cockrell life! Dr. Leanne Ketterlin Geller Faculty-in-Residence, Crum Commons From the beaches of Santa Cruz, California, Leanne Ketterlin Geller is at home in nature. Whether it be hiking, biking, or strolling through the oaks that line the Boulevard, Leanne loves to be outside. Her love of the ocean led her to study biology in college and teach high school science. After earning her doctorate, she was on faculty at the University of Oregon until joining SMU in 2009. Along with her husband Josh, their son Zachary, and dog Chewbacca, they are excited to make their home in the Crum Commons. Email Dr. Ketterlin Geller Learn more about Dr. Ketterlin Geller and her family “I am excited to begin my role as the faculty-in-residence for Crum Commons. I am passionate about my family and my work. My family and I enjoy traveling, experiencing new cultures, and spending time outdoors. We love cooking and eating good food, playing games and laughing, and having new adventures. We also strive for balance and personal wellbeing.” Leanne Ketterlin Geller, Faculty-in-Residence in Crum Commons Dr. Leanne Ketterlin Geller, her husband Josh Geller, and their son Zachary joined the Crum Commons in 2020 as the Faculty- and Family-in-Residence, respectively. Native to the central coast of California, they moved to Texas in 2009 and love being part of the SMU community. You’ll often find them cheering on the Mustangs sports teams, attending dance concerts and other student-led performances, or enjoying a walk around the beautiful SMU campus. As a family, they love cooking and eating good food, playing games and laughing, and spending time outdoors, including hiking, biking, and taking long walks. To quench their wanderlust, they are always looking forward to their next trip where they enjoy engaging in cultural exchanges, exploring natural and ancient wonders, and experiencing new adventures. As Leanne begins her appointment as FiR, she is excited to engage with the Crum Commons community. She is a professor in the department of Education Policy and Leadership and holds the Texas Instruments Chair in Education in the Simmons School of Education and Human Development. She is passionate about her work in promoting equity and inclusive learning environments in mathematics and STEM education in K-12 settings. She gains energy by helping people reach their goals, including mentoring students and emerging scholars. She likes to roll up her sleeves to come up with innovative solutions to pressing problems. Her positive attitude permeates throughout her life and serves to ground her in a “glass half-full” perspective. Like Leanne, Josh works in the field of educational research in the Simmons School. Among his passions and pursuits, Josh is a compassionate listener, the culinary rock star of the family, and a practitioner of mindfulness, meditation, and yoga. In the Crum patio, look for him tending the garden, taking photographs, or trying another clever invention to keep the squirrels from the bird feeders. Zachary is proudly Gen Z but loves alt-new wave 80s music like his parents. He is quick to laugh, passionate about saving the planet, loves movie night, and is dedicated to pursuing his goals as a competitive swimmer. They are proud puppy parents to a cockapoo named Chewbacca (affectionately known as Chewie). If you need a snuggle or to play a game of fetch, Chewie will be there for you! Most importantly, Leanne and Josh hope to create an environment that provides a safe space for every member of the Crum community to be themselves, explore ways to grow both personally and intellectually, and meaningfully add to every students’ SMU experience. Dr. Daniele Forlino Faculty-in-Residence, Kathy Crow Commons Daniele Forlino is a lecturer of Italian and serves as the Area Chair for the Italian Program. His partner, Dr. Aria Cabot is the director of the World Languages and Literatures Teaching and Technology Center at SMU. They, along with their two children, Sofia and Rocco are part of the Kathy Crow family, and are eager to contribute to the intellectual enrichment of its community. Email Dr. Forlino Learn more about Dr. Forlino and his family “As the youngest of nine kids, and having been an international student, I understand both the challenges and wonderful opportunities of living with students in a large, loud, diverse environment and I look forward to serving the Kathy Crow Community.” Daniele Forlino, Faculty-in-Residence in Kathy Crow Commons Daniele Forlino is a lecturer of Italian and serves as the Area Chair for the Italian Program. His partner, Dr. Aria Cabot is the director of the World Languages and Literatures Teaching and Technology Center at SMU. They, along with their two children, Sofia (6 years old) and Rocco (almost 1) are thrilled to become part of the Kathy Crow family, and are eager to contribute to the intellectual enrichment of its community. Dr. Alice Kendrick Faculty-in-Residence, Loyd Commons Alice Kendrick, or “Dr. K” as her students like to call her, is a professor of advertising in the Temerl Advertising Institute, specializing in advertising research and strategy. She grew up in Alexandria, Louisiana, and earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees in journalism from Louisiana State University; she later received a doctorate in communication and a master’s in adult education from the University of Tennessee. Her first job as a professor was at Marquette University’s Diederich College of Communication while coaching the Marquette varsity women’s tennis team. Learn more about Alice Kendrick and her family. Email Dr. K Learn more about Dr. K and her family Jim Hart Faculty-in-Residence, McElvaney Commons James Hart has won numerous pedagogical awards and innovation honors. Hart is a professor of practice at Meadows School of the Arts, serving as director of arts entrepreneurship and director of the Meadows Artist Bridge. The Meadows Artist Bridge, designed by Hart, facilitates Meadows student entrepreneurship and professional work and connects students with community members looking to hire talent. He also manages addition to managing two minors in arts entrepreneurship and arts management. Email Professor Hart Learn more about Professor Hart and his family Professor Hart is originally from Dallas, but has lived in NY, CA, CT, Taiwan, and Norway. He holds a BFA from SMU (Theatre) and MFA from Yale University (Acting). Jim is passionate about entrepreneurship, art in general, serving in the Dallas community, and helping students become more entrepreneurial in their thinking and actions. Hart’s favorite think about being a FiR is getting to engage with students outside of the classroom and hosting Sunday Brunch. His favorite book is Joseph Campbell’s The Hero with a Thousand Faces. Often celebrated for pedagogical innovation, professors have used professor Hart’s original experiential classroom exercises in universities around the world. The Hart family includes Professor Jim Hart (Director of Arts Entrepreneurship in Meadows), Kristina Kirkenaer-Hart (Operations and Communications Managing Director of the Dallas Arts District), Dottie Hart (14, who is passionate about visual art and theatre), and Bonnie the dog (an Australian Labradoodle who is a year old as of June 2020). Professor Hart shared, “We love playing a role in our residents’ lives outside of the classroom environment. Our family does whatever we can to help students to feel a part of and engaged within McElvaney Commons and SMU in general. We want them to know about some of the dynamic resources SMU has to offer and to engage with peers as often as possible so that life-long relationships are formed. More, there is so much Dallas has to offer, and we want our students to be aware of and engage with the many great events and opportunities within our city.” Professor Hart further communicated, “We are very invested in helping our McElvaney students feel that they have a second home in our commons. We hope they come to feel that they have a great sense of belonging and that McElvaney is and was a rich part of their life experience. We do our best to help them feel supported, safe, and as a part of our rich community.” You will often see the Hart’s grilling various delicious Texas-inspired foods at one of the two McElvaney entrances. They love to host dinners for students and speak about a myriad of topics related to students' studies, and about life in general. The Hart’s love to host varied events, in addition to their weekly salon brunches. Past events have included a Retro Relay Race, trips to see international dance performances at the Winspear Opera House, and more. Kristina enjoys baking. Students often express how much they love her French Toast Casserole dish, sometimes served at their Sunday Salons. She was previously trained and served as a professional dancer in New York. Her performances have played at prominent New York venues and throughout much of Europe. Kristina is also service-focused and is a significant advocate for arts organizations in and around Dallas. Kristina has a passion for crafting, teaching about stress reduction and healthy living, and enjoys engaging in multiple creative activities. Dottie has been in competitive gymnastics for much of her life to date. She loves to travel. In her young life, Kristina visited numerous countries, including Norway, Denmark, Italy, and India, as well as many states within the U.S. She is adventurous by nature, curious, creative, imaginative, and playful. You will likely see Dottie as she walks Bonnie, the Hart family puppy. Dottie was born in Oslo, Norway, and her first language was Norwegian. Dr. Alberto Pastor Faculty-in-Residence, MHPS Commons A native of Madrid (Spain), Alberto Pastor has taught linguistics at SMU since 2005. His research interests are linguistic theory and sociolinguistic issues related to Spanish in the United States such as language contact, language ideologies and attitudes, and linguistic landscapes. In his classes and personal life, he tries to serve as an advocate for multilingualism and multiculturalism in the society at large. Along with his wife Martha, and their son Alejandro, they are thrilled to continue the diversity values and traditions of HPMS Commons, and to be part and foster this community. Email Dr. Pastor Learn more about Dr. Pastor and his family "Being a FiR will allow me to partake in energizing conversations and academic exchanges with students, and engage in social events in which I can contribute to the students’ personal growth and to the society at large by bringing my area of expertise on multilingual societies to the Commons." Alberto Pastor, Faculty-in-Residence A native of Madrid (Spain), Alberto Pastor has taught linguistics at SMU since 2005. His research interests are linguistic theory and sociolinguistic issues related to Spanish in the United States such as language contact, language ideologies and attitudes, and linguistic landscapes. In his classes and personal life, he tries to serve as an advocate for multilingualism and multiculturalism in the society at large. Along with his wife Martha, and their son Alejandro, they are thrilled to continue the diversity values and traditions of HPMS Commons, and to be part and foster this community. Dr. Debra Branch Faculty-in-Residence, Morrison-McGinnis Commons Dr Branch has won several campus honors at SMU, including the prestigious Provost’s Teaching Award. In addition, she teaches regularly at SMU-in-Taos, and has taken students to Cuba as part of the SMU in Havana/Miami abroad program. She is the SMU Faculty-in-Residence for Morrison-McGinnis Residential Commons. Email Dr. Branch Learn more about Dr. Branch and her family “I am excited to be part of the FIR tradition at SMU. Students are the reason I relish teaching, and I hope to repay all of the incredible life lessons I've learned from my students over the years. Young people are a gift. To grow and thrive, they must be nurtured and supported both inside and outside of the classroom. And, as a FIR, I am honored to be a small part of this process.” Deb Branch, Faculty-in-Residence in Morrison-McGinnis Commons Debra Branch is a eighth-generation Texan, born in the border town of Eagle Pass and raised in the Piney Woods of East Texas. She received her BA at the University of Texas at Austin and her MA at the University of Oklahoma, both in Sociology. She earned her Ph.D. in Sociology at the Ohio State University, where she specialized in gender and racial inequality in the workplace. Dr Branch has lived and traveled extensively in the U.S.; She loves the outdoors, especially the Mountain West, and is an avid environmentalist. Her favorite hobbies include travelling, skiing, hiking, biking, and paddle-boarding. She has 25 years of college teaching experience and has won teaching awards at every university where she has taught. Dr. Branch is a senior lecturer in Sociology for Dedman College and has been at SMU since 2007, where she teaches courses in the Sociology and Markets and Cultures majors. Her courses include Research Methods, Environmental Sociology, Constructed Social Identities, Social and Economic Development, Sport and Society, and Contemporary Issues in the American Southwest. Dr Branch has won several campus honors at SMU, including the prestigious Provost’s Teaching Award. In addition, she teaches regularly at SMU-in-Taos, and has taken students to Cuba as part of the SMU in Havana/Miami abroad program. She is the SMU Faculty-in-Residence for Morrison-McGinnis Residential Commons. Dr. Debra Branch and her wife, Molly, have served as the Faculty-in-Residence (FIR) family in Morrison-McGinnis Commons since 2020. The Branches are excited to share their lives and experiences with the students, and look forward to carrying on the great traditions, such as MoMac at the movies, while creating new opportunities for all in the MoMac family to connect and bond together. Is anyone up for a snowball fight? The MoMac spirit is strong with the Branches! They open up their home on Sunday nights for snacks (MoMac and cheese anyone?) and shows and love attending SMU events with their students. Go Ponies! When the Branches aren’t cheering on their students, you can often find them walking campus with their pups, Bean, Picasso, and Hank. One of the founding symbols of MoMac is the torch, representing the development of character through helping others, and Deb and Molly believe that the best way to build lasting relationships is through community service. As a Sociologist and the MoMac FIR, Deb loves to engage students with the larger Dallas community, whether it’s environmental justice or helping homeless youth. Both Deb and Molly believe some of the best life learning opportunities happen outside of the classroom and strive to foster a sense of engagement, mentorship, and belonging among the MoMac community. Deb and Molly consider themselves the “fun aunts” of MoMac. Whether it’s attending a MoMac-er’s dance recital, hosting dinners, or just lending a hand, hug, or ear, Deb and Molly are always right there on the first-floor. Molly loves to host and cook, and Deb loves to talk and eat! And, watch out for Deb and her camera as she loves taking and posting pictures of her MoMac family! Isn’t that what aunts are for? Dr. Carol Dickson-Carr Faculty-in-Residence, Virginia-Snider Commons Carol Dickson-Carr, AKA Prof DC, her daughter Maya (SMU Class of ’22 and Psych Major), and her husband, Darryl (SMU Professor of English and outgoing department Chair), are excited to join and serve the Virginia-Snider Commons community. They love music, food, and lively discussion that centers on making the community, and by extension, the world a better place. Email Dr. Dickson-Carr Learn more about Dr. Dickson-Carr and her family “My family and I are off the beaten path, and I mean that in a good way since I heard through the grapevine that Virginia-Snider’s motto is to ‘Keep VS weird.’ Self-acceptance wasn’t always a familiar concept when I was younger. Still, over the years, I learned that as long as we are authentically our BEST selves, the possibilities are endless. I’d rather the residents I meet learn this sooner rather than later--that most things are possible with discipline, integrity, passion, a little luck, FUN, and determination. And mentoring!” Carol Dickson-Carr, Faculty-in-Residence in Virginia-Snider Commons Carol Dickson-Carr, AKA Prof DC (Professor of Practice and appointed Faculty-in-Residence beginning Fall 2021), her daughter Maya (SMU Class of ’22 and Psych Major), and her husband, Darryl (SMU Professor of English and outgoing department Chair), are excited to join and serve the Virginia-Snider Commons community. They love music, food, and lively discussion that centers on making the community, and by extension, the world a better place. Carol’s undergraduate and graduate degrees are in economics. She has a Six Sigma Greenbelt and received training at the Graduate School of Coaching at Coachville and Coaching from Spirit Institute. Before moving to Dallas in 2007, she worked in the private sector, calculating economic damages for an employment litigation firm for six years. She was a legislative analyst for the House Finance and Tax Committee at the Florida Legislature for a little over five years. She started as an adjunct lecturer at SMU, teaching the economic principles courses in January 2007 and life coaching outside SMU. Ten years later, she was promoted to Professor of Practice when the Associate Dean of Dedman College discovered her other skills and could take over for the Business Writing professor who retired in 2017 and teach spreadsheet literacy to the college’s students. Carol has an immense passion for music and movement for any shape, size, or age. These activities started as hobbies for her sanity, but she’s loved music from infancy; her mom said she was humming recognizable tunes at nine months before she could talk! She has had private vocal and piano students for almost nine years and has also taught dance fitness and Pilates at 24 Hour Fitness since the spring of 2017. This eclectic skill set positions her to continue the great work Dr. Ann has accomplished and potentially add new traditions to this community. The Dickson-Carrs look forward to bringing a combination of warmth, empathy, fun, real talk, humor (Maya is the natural comedian, though!), mentoring, and culinary skills (while Carol can cook…Darryl can COOK)! Carol is committed to channeling her collaborative nature with Res Life so students feel heard, understood, unstoppable, and intellectually challenged. Dr. Andrew Graybill Faculty-in-Residence, Ware Commons Andrew Graybill was born and raised in San Antonio, Texas, and attended college and graduate school on the east coast. After nearly a decade teaching at the University of Nebraska, he moved with his family to Dallas in 2011 to become the director of the William P. Clements Center for Southwest Studies and a professor of history at SMU. His academic work focuses on the 19th-century North American West, and he has authored/edited four books. He also writes regularly for Texas Monthly and The Wall Street Journal, among other media. He spends much of his free time with his wife and kids—Fiona (b. 2003) and Gavin (b. 2008). As a family they love to travel, especially to Michigan, New Mexico, and Guatemala. Email Dr. Graybill Learn more about Dr. Graybill and his family Andy was drawn to the Faculty-in-Residence position from the moment he arrived on the Hilltop in 2011 because his own experience living in a residential college was the defining aspect of his undergraduate career. Andy is eager to cultivate the same kind of welcoming community in Ware Commons as a home-within-a-home at SMU, embracing all residents. In his academic work, Andy is at the trailhead of a new book project about Wyoming’s Johnson County War, perhaps the most famous range conflict of the late nineteenth century (as well as the subject of the unfairly maligned 1980 film Heaven’s Gate). Andy loves movies, books, and biking, and is learning—in middle age—how to fly fish, with help from his very patient father-in-law. Jen grew up in beautiful northern Michigan, and is a graduate of Hope College. After moving to Texas in the mid-1990s, she earned an MAT from Trinity University in San Antonio (where she and Andy met), and then worked for more than two decades in public education, as a teacher and consultant. In 2019, she became Director of the Office of Engaged Learning—a campus-wide initiative to enhance student learning with experiential learning opportunities—and also leads the SMU Incubator, which supports entrepreneurial ventures. She is a woman of many talents, among them cooking, gardening, and home improvement projects. Fiona is a rising senior at Booker T. Washington High School for the Performing and Visual Arts. Her chief interests are politics, music (more listening than playing), and crossword puzzles. She loves the Bravo TV series “Below Deck” (don’t ask). Gavin is a seventh-graderat the Alcuin School, who enjoys Spanish and especially his gaming console (alas). Rounding out the crew are the “Ware Woofs”—Bear, Evie, and Frida (aka “Tiny Dog” or just “TD”), who are not much to look at but adored all the same. They are available for walks (as are the kids). The Ebinger-Graybills knew they had big shoes to fill when they succeeded Tom and Jeanne Tunks, the first—and deeply beloved—FiR family of Ware Commons. They have thus kept alive many of the traditions pioneered by the Tunks, including the Sunday night Salon, which features delicious nibbles homemade by Jen and any willing student volunteers (as well as the occasional special guest). And like the Tunks, the newcomers have loved working closely with the Ware family on making our Commons the place “Ware” everyone belongs … Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share