Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Utah State TODAY Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Utah State TODAY Open main menu Close Open search Home Explore Stories Close Explore Stories Arts & Humanities Business & Society Health & Wellness Land & Environment Science & Technology Teaching & Learning Campus Life Athletics University Affairs Series Topics In Focus All Stories Resources Close Resources Subscribe USU Pressroom USU in the News Submission Instructions Submit a Press Release Contact us Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Science & Technology A Closer Look: USU Installs New Scanner for Non-Invasive Analysis of Biological, Other Specimens National Science Foundation, USU partners provide more than $500K for 'microCT' unit to advance research efforts By Mary-Ann Muffoletto | May 24, 2022 Video by Taylor Emerson, Digital Journalist, University Marketing & Communications Conventional means of examining biological and other structures, including dissection, often destroy precious specimens. But advances in imaging technology are affording scientists the ability to get a closer, non-invasive look. Utah State University is the grateful recipient of a state-of-art 3D tomographic X-ray system that will allow scholars to elevate their research efforts by digitally dissecting delicate, irreplaceable samples without harm. A group of Aggie scientists secured a $402,500 grant from the National Science Foundation in August 2021 to fund the acquisition of a high-resolution 3D, micro-computed tomographic X-ray system. USU’s Office of Research, along with the College of Science, the College of Agriculture and Applied Sciences, the Agricultural Experiment Station, and the departments of Biology; Animal, Dairy and Veterinary Sciences; and Geosciences, provided a 30 percent match in funding to purchase the $575,000 Nikon microCT scanner. About 8 feet long, 7 feet tall and 4 feet wide, the nearly 5-ton instrument, manufactured in the United Kingdom, was installed in the university’s Eccles Science Learning Center May 23. “This instrument opens a range of opportunities for USU scholars in the life sciences, as well as for researchers in geosciences, physics, engineering, art, anthropology and more,” says Al Savitzky, professor in the Department of Biology and USU Ecology Center and a principal investigator on the project. Looking at photos of the exterior of many specimens is no substitute for examining the internal features of an animal, plant or rock, he says. And, without high-tech imaging, thoroughly examining a specimen’s structure means taking it apart — ultimately destroying the test subject. “MicroCT technology allows for eye-popping, microscopic examination of structures, tissues and cells without damaging the object we’re looking at,” Savitzky says. “It greatly simplifies 3D analysis and preserves costly samples.” The acquisition of the scanner is the result of a multi-year effort by Savitzky and fellow investigators Susannah French, Karen Kapheim and Molly Womack, aslo faculty members in the Department of Biology and USU Ecology Center, as well as Department of Animal, Dairy and Veterinary Sciences faculty member Jeffrey Mason. “This is a collaborative effort that will benefit researchers throughout the university, including scholars at our statewide campuses,” Savitzky says. “The scanner’s imaging capabilities will enhance teaching and research efforts for undergraduates, graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, faculty and staff, as well as public outreach efforts.” Current USU research efforts targeted for use of the scanner include evolutionary and developmental studies of chemical defenses in snakes and sensory systems in frogs and toads, studies of evolutionary processes and genomic mechanisms in bees, research into tissue mineralization in mammals, developmental studies of flower, fruit and seed metabolism, development of bioengineered protein materials and more. “Use of this instrument will have a multiplicative effect across the university, as the initial cohort of researchers are able to provide increased learning and synergistic research opportunities for their students, postdoctoral researchers and colleagues,” Savitzky says. Full Size × Download Close Download Full Size A nearly five-ton micro-computed tomographic scanner is lowered through the mechanical access shaft on the south side of USU's Eccles Science Learning Center May 23. The instrument will enhance research opportunities throughout the university. × Download Close Download WRITER Mary-Ann Muffoletto Public Relations Specialist College of Science 435-797-3517 maryann.muffoletto@usu.edu CONTACT Al Savitzky Professor Department of Biology and USU Ecology Center 435-797-0193 savitzky@usu.edu TOPICS Grants 204stories STEM 52stories Comments and questions regarding this article may be directed to the contact person listed on this page. Next Story in Science & Technology May 24, 2022 820 Space Dynamics Lab Elects Retired Space Commander to Board of Directors Utah State University's Space Dynamics Laboratory announced Tuesday that it has elected retired U.S. Air Force Lt. Gen. John F. Thompson to its Board of Directors. Read the Story See Also May 24, 2022 1608 Expectations Exceeded: USU GASPACS Cube Satellite Completes 117-Day Space Journey Transmitting data to Earth until its final hours, Utah State University's student-built satellite appears to have re-entered Earth's atmosphere and disintegrated May 24 after surviving a phenomenal 117 days in space. Trending on Utah State Today Read the Story HEALTH & WELLNESS May 19, 2022 165461 Update for USU Community on Coronavirus Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 02, 2022 2707 USU Names Irungu Inaugural VP of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 26, 2022 2643 Degree Programs Realigned to Create New Department at Utah State University Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 03, 2022 2627 Utah State University to Award More Than 7,000 Degrees in 2022 FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 EXPLORE STORIES Browse Archives Explore Topics Explore Series USU in the News FOR THE MEDIA Pressroom Media Contacts Media resources About USU SUBSCRIBE Receive our weekly newsletter. Subscribe to Utah State Today Email Subscribe Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page