Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety What to do in an emergency Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications What to do in an emergency Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close FAQ Home About FAQ About FAQ How are students alerted of an emergency? The Boston College Emergency Notification System sends out campus-wide emails and text messages to Boston College students, faculty, and staff as well as to the BC Safe Mobile App. Postings to websites and social media pages are used as well. To learn more about emergency notificaiton and how to receive alerts, visit the BC Emergency Communications Page. What is the best way to stay informed during an emergency? The Boston College Emergency website and the BC Safe Mobile App will be updated with messages, information, and instructions. There will also be information on the emergency on the Boston College Office of Emergency Management Facebook Page and Twitter Page, and the emergency information line can be reached at 1-888-BOS-COLL (1-888-267-2655). Due to the demand on resources during emergencies, BC Police will most likely be very occupied and therefore not able to answer non-emergency calls. Utilize the other emergency contacts at Boston College before the Boston College Police Department. Are parents able to be added to the Boston College emergency notification system? We do not include parents directlly in our emergency notification system. This is because the amount of additional text messages and emails necessary to send out would drastically slow down the response system. Despite this, we have many other outlets for parents/guardians to stay informed such as the website bc.edu/emergency, a Facebook page and Twitter page which are updated frequently. Parents can also download the BC Safe Mobile App, which receives alerts at the same time they are sent to students and staff. What should a student or staff member do when they receive an emergency notification? Follow directions given, if any, in the message. Alert others around you. Contact your family and friends to let them know you are safe Go to www.bc.edu/emergency for more detailed information What are the most common emergencies on campus? Although emergencies are a rarity at Boston College, in the past there have been experiences with winter storms, hazardous materials, fires, and various other events. To learn more about what emergencies can impact the campus, visit the BC Potential Hazards Page. What is the role of Boston College’s Office of Emergency Management? Our goal is to promote a culture of preparedness on campus through outreach to our students, faculty, staff, and visitors. Our website and other pages are to be used as a resource for emergency procedures, preparations, and other recommendations for everyday safety. We work with departments and groups across campus to develop emergency plans and procedures, educate and train members of the Boston College community about preparedness and test and exercise the emergency systems, procedures and plans of the University. What is the most important thing I can do to plan effectively for an emergency? Assemble or purchase an Emergency Supply Kit. Details on the BC How to Prepare Page. Familiarize yourself with what emergencies can occur on/near campus and the correlating safety procedures. Be sure that all contact information is updated so the Emergency Notifications can reach you effectively. Create a Family Communication Plan so that friends and family can stay informed about your safety and well being during an emergency. Keep updated on the emergency status of the university and local area which can be done on the bc.edu/emergency site City of Boston Emergency Site - sign up for City of Boston Emergency Notifications City of Newton Emergency Site - sign up for City of Newton Emergency Notifications Town of Brookline Emergency Site - sign up for Town of Brookline Emergency Notifications State of Massachusetts Emergency Site If you have a medical condition where you may need to take medicine immediately (allergies, diabetes, etc.) it is important to either keep this medicine with you, or to at least wear some kind of indicator such as a medical bracelet or necklace so that health professionals can identify and help with specific needs you may have. Where should I go if I am told to evacuate? Usually in instances where evacuation is necessary, students, faculty, staff and visitors will be directed to other large buildings on campus such as libraries or dining halls. It is a good idea to bring an Emergency Supply Kit with you. Visit the BC What to Do in an Emergency Page to learn about what to do in an evacuation. What does Shelter in Place mean? If a particular emergency occurs and the hazards are outdoors, there will be a request that the Boston College community Shelter In Place. This means to find and enter the nearest building, to stay indoors and away from windows and doors. It is important to remain indoors until an official gives a notification that it is safe to leave. More details on BC Shelter in Place. What is the difference between a weather watch and weather warning? A watch means conditions are right for dangerous weather. In other words, a "watch" means watch out for what the weather could do, be ready to act. This means that the storm is not yet happening, but that the weather could become severe quickly. A warning means that severe weather is already in the area and it is important to take shelter immediately. What should be in an Emergency Supply Kit and where do I find these items? Some basic necessities for an Emergency Supply Kit can be found on the BC Emergency Supply Kit Page. You can create your own kit by assembling these items together. These items can be found in grocery stores, pharmacies, camping stores, home center stores and big retail stores. Full supply kits can also be purchased, ranging from ten dollars to hundreds of dollars depending on the contents of the kit. You can find these at various retailers and online. Emergency Supply kits should be kept in a dorm room, car, or place where it can be stored but easily accessed during an emergency. In a time of evacuation, it is important to take your kit with you! What is a Family Communication Plan? This is a way to stay in contact with family and friends during an emergency. Phones and the Internet may not always be accessible, so it is important to develop a plan of communication. Determine a single contact (usually a family member) outside of your area. Make sure friends and family know who this person is and how to contact them. If you are effected by an emergency, notify friends and family as soon as possible to let them know where you are/ how you are doing. If you cannot reach them, let your single contact person know. Please visit the BC Family Communications Plan page for more details. It is also a good idea to program an In Case of Emergency (ICE) contact phone number into your mobile phone in case first responders (EMS personnel, fire fighters, policemen, etc.) are trying to reach someone in your family. You can also register as “Safe and Well” on the Red Cross website to let others in your family know that you are out of harm’s way. Back To Top Back To Top BC Campus Safety 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College