Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Parent & Family Services Get Involved Events & Services News Resources Support Us Visit UofM Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About About Contact Us Mission & Goals Take Action Join the Parent & Family Association Check out the Tiger Family Resource Hub Check out In the Now: Monthly FAQs Contact Us: We are here to help! Follow Parent & Family Services InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Parent & Family Services About Contact Information Contact Information We are here to help you help your student! Parent & Family Services is the one place on campus designed specifically to help parents and family members. Call with your questions, concerns or comments and we will be happy to answer and address. Email: parents@memphis.edu Phone: 901.678.2115 We are available via phone and email Monday to Friday, 8:00 am to 4:30 pm. If you contact us after hours, we will be in touch when we return to the office. Location & Mailing Address: 205 Administration Building Memphis, Tennessee 38152 Social Media @UMparents Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Staff Lindsey Bray, M.A., CNP (she | her) Sr. Coordinator of Parent & Family Services lmbray@memphis.edu 901.678.2115 Book an appointment Born and raised in Texas, Lindsey has found a home in Memphis. She earned her B.A. in Political Science from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, and her M.A. in History and Graduate Certificate in Museum Studies and Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership from the University of Memphis. She is currently working on her Ed.D. in Higher Education from the University of Memphis. Lindsey has worked with parents and families since her career began with the University in 2009 in the Vice President for Student Affairs office. She serves as the main point of contact for parents and families and has worked to expand the programs and services offered to them at the UofM. Lindsey is a current member of the Board of Directors for AHEPPP: Family Engagement in Higher Education and has previously served as the Region 3 Chair. In her free time, Lindsey can be found hanging out with her husband and two Goldendoodles, finding the best places to eat in town (feel free to ask for recommendations), and traveling to parts unknown. Vacant Coordinator of Parent & Family Services Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/12/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.