Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Lynch School of Education & Human Development Centers & Initiatives Search BC.edu Links Campus School Menu Main Nav Campus School at Boston College Campus School Donate Now Back Back Close About Overview Calendar Job Opportunities Meet Our Staff What We Do Admission Get Involved Close Donate Now Directory A to Z Listing Search Lynch School Website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Admission Visit Centers & Initiatives BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close At the Campus School, we believe in realizing the potential of every student. Our caring staff of teachers, therapists, and medical professionals work together with families to provide a personalized education for students ages 3 to 22 with significant support needs, including complex health care needs. Our private, publicly funded, special education day school is located within the Lynch School of Education and Human Development on the Boston College campus. The Campus School benefits from innovative research in special education, graduate student Teacher Assistants, and a thriving University-wide volunteer program. What sets us apart? Transdisciplinary Approach Our teachers, therapists, and nurses work as a team to provide a comprehensive educational plan that best serves your child's academic, physical, and emotional needs. University Resources Our affiliation with one of the country's top education schools means our curriculum and practices are informed by leading research in the field, and our students enjoy access to state-of-the-art facilities across the Boston College campus. Caring Community In addition to our full-time 40-person staff, Campus School students spend time with our graduate student aids and undergraduate volunteers through the popular Campus School Volunteer Buddy Program. Facts and Figures 2:1 Staff-to-student ratio 42 Maximum enrollment 75-100 Percentage of students who take the MCAS ALT A Campus School Tradition: The Morning Welcome Every fall, our students receive a special back-to-school visit from the Boston College Police Department. Campus School News Running with care Meet three members of the Boston College community who will run this year's Boston Marathon in support of the Campus School. The future of philanthropy First-year student Alyssa Lego wants to change the world for people with disabilities, including students at the Campus School—and she’s already begun. The Campus School story New commemorative volume traces the school's 50-year history. Campus School at Boston College and Kennedy Day School to form collaborative partnership The arrangement will allow both schools to serve their special needs students more effectively. Thomas Miller named Campus School interim director He brings to the role nearly 50 years of experience in special education instruction, program direction, and service advocacy. “The Campus School has changed Jack’s life and our lives profoundly. It is without a doubt the best thing in Jack’s life, and because Jack is the center of our world, it’s the best thing in our lives. ” Robyn Dollar, Parent of Jack The Campus School in Action The Campus School is 50! We recently celebrated a half-century of the Campus School at Boston College and its mission of realizing the potential in all students. With your help, we surpassed our goal of raising $50,000 to support our groundbreaking programs and expand access to essential technology and therapeutic equipment. Donate Today Campus School Calendar Campus School Events Back To Top Back To Top Campus School at Boston College Boston College 235 Beacon Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3460 campusschool@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Campion Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4200 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Community Apply Visit Give CONNECT WITH US Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College