Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Commencement & Reunion 2020-21 FAQ …→ Harvard Business School→ Commencement & Reunion 20-21→ We look forward to welcoming you to Harvard Business School to celebrate the One-Year Reunion and Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021. It is an exciting time to be together on campus and we can’t wait to share this special time with you. Schedule May 27 Friday, May 27 4:00 PM Reunion activities for the Class of 2020 Alumnus + 1 guest Off Campus 4:00 PM Reunion activities for the Class of 2021 Alumnus + 1 guest Off Campus May 28 Saturday, May 28 9:00 AM – 3:00 PM Reunion activities Class of 2020 Alumnus + 1 guest Harvard Business School campus 9:00 AM – 3:00 PM Reunion activities Class of 2021 Alumnus + 1 guest Harvard Business School campus 3:00 – 5:00 PM Reunion & Family Reception Alumnus + 3 guests Harvard Business School campus 5:00 PM Off-campus free time May 29 Sunday, May 29 7:00 AM HBS graduates assemble at Sever Quadrangle, Harvard Yard 8:00 – 10:30 AM Harvard University Commencement Exercises Simulcast location at HBS will be available. 11:00 AM – 1:30 PM Harvard Business School Commencement Celebrations Schedule represents general times and is subject to change. In general, each class will have one hour for their specific program. Graduates will participate in a special stage-crossing event on Baker Lawn, hosted by Dean Srikant Datar. Family and friends are invited to watch their graduate cross the stage, take photos, and enjoy the celebratory activities on campus. Graduates will assemble by year and section, starting with the Class of 2020. Graduates should check the event APP or final confirmation email for the time their class and section will muster at HBS, Hamilton Courtyard. Harvard University Commencement, Harvard Yard 6:00 AM – Bus transportation from the Renaissance Hotel to Harvard Yard NOTE: Buses will drop passengers off at the corner of JFK and Mt. Auburn Street. Graduates must walk from there to Sever Quadrangle. Guests must walk from there to Harvard Yard 6:30 AM – Gates open for ticketed guests at Harvard Yard 7:00 AM – Bus transportation from the Renaissance Hotel to HBS for simulcast of HU ceremony 7:00 AM - All HBS graduates assemble at Sever Quadrangle 8:00 AM – HU Commencement Exercises in Harvard Yard 8:00 AM – Simulcast of HU Commencement for MBA at Klarman Hall, HBS 8:00 AM – Simulcast of HU Commencement for Doctoral at Frist Faculty Commons, HBS 10:30 AM – HU Commencement Exercises at HU conclude There is no formal transportation from Harvard University to HBS fullowing the ceremony. Harvard Business School Commencement Celebration 10:30 AM Box lunches available at Class of 1959 Chapel Tent 11:15 AM Doctoral & MBA Class of 2020 Graduates Muster at Hamilton Courtyard. Schedule follows: Doctoral 11:20 AM MBA 2020 Section A 11:20 Section B 11:33 Section C 11:40 Section D 11:47 Section E 11:53 Section F 12:00 Section G 12:06 Section H 12:13 Section I 12:20 Section J 12:26 Photographs taken as each graduate crosses the stage will be available for purchase. 12:15 PM Class of 2021 Graduates Muster at Hamilton Courtyard. Schedule follows: MBA 2021 Section A 12:39 Section B 12:45 Section C 12:51 Section D 12:57 Section E 1:03 Section F 1:09 Section G 1:15 Section H 1:21 Section I 1:27 Section J 1:33 12:30 PM Class of 2021 Stage Crossing by Section Photographs taken as each graduate crosses the stage will be available for purchase. 12:30 PM Doctoral Commencement Lunch (by invitation only) 1:30 PM Reception in the Shad Tent. Registration & Tickets There are two registrations required: Register for Harvard University Commencement Register for Harvard Business School Reunion & Commencement Register for Harvard University Commencement Register for Harvard Business School Reunion & Commencement All graduates must register in advance to attend the Commencement Celebration at HBS and the Harvard University Commencement Exercises at Harvard Yard. On arrival at HBS, graduates attending their reunion will register/check in at Klarman Hall. Klarman Hall is the hub for information about the Commencement and where graduates pick up their regalia (if ordered through Harvard COOP) and wrist bands for the HBS events. Hours of Operation Saturday, May 28, 2022 9:00 am – 5:00 pm Sunday, May 29, 2022 6:00 am – 3:30 pm Harvard University Commencement Exercises Tickets are required (no exceptions) to attend the Harvard University Commencement Exercises. Graduates will be given three guest tickets for the ceremony at Harvard Yard. A ticket grants admission into Harvard Yard but does not guarantee a seat. Seating is available on a first-come basis and cannot be reserved. Children at the Harvard University Commencement If children occupy a seat at Commencement, they will need a ticket. Babies/toddlers who sit on a parent’s lap are exempt. Please note that strollers are not permitted in Tercentenary Theatre. Strollers are permitted in the Old Yard, however, where ample seating and viewing screens are available near Weld and elsewhere. The program can be long for a child, so guests with young children may prefer to be seated there with great viewing and easy access to facilities. Harvard Business School Commencement Celebration This event is open to graduates and their guests from the Classes of 2020 and 2021. No tickets required. Because of proximity to the Boston Calling music festival, ALL attendees will be required to wear a wristband while attending the HBS events. Graduates will receive wristbands at check-in for their reunion or commencement events at Klarman Hall starting Saturday, May 28th. Wristbands are required to enter and for access to food and beverages. Health & Safety Harvard University Commencement Harvard Yard gates open at 6:30 AM. All guests will be required to present a Commencement ticket to security personnel at the gate. Guests may be screened with hand wand magnetometers, or have their bags searched by security personnel. All persons, bags, and personal items are subject to inspection before entering Harvard Yard. No backpacks of any type will be admitted. No bag or item larger than 12 x 12”x 12” will be permitted inside the Yard. Harvard Business School In an effort to provide a safe and secure environment on Baker Library Lawn for the Commencement celebrations, normal-size handbags, purses, and camera bags will be allowed and will be subject to search by security personnel. Please do not bring large-size bags, backpacks, luggage, briefcases, gift bags, wrapped gifts, packages, or balloons to the lawn area. All graduates and guests will be required to wear a wristband for all HBS Commencement activities. Wrist bands will be given to the graduates at registration or may be picked up at the information booth. Do you have a family member or guest travelling with security? We are here to help. Please contact Mike Murphy at mimurphy@hbs.edu for more information. COVID Protocols Keep HBS Healthy is a website devoted to keeping a healthy environment at Harvard Business School, and all current COVID protocols are reflected there. Check this site for up-to-date information and details before you arrive on campus. Accessibility HBS Courtesy Wheelchair Loans The MBA Student and Academic Services will have wheelchairs available for courtesy loans to HBS students who reserve a wheelchair in advance. Available for day use on the HBS campus. Pick up at Klarman 133: Saturday, May 28, 2022 9:00 am – 5:00 pm Sunday, May 29, 2022 6:00 am – 3:00 pm To request a wheelchair, email: studentactivities@hbs.edu The wheelchairs are loaned out daily each morning. The pick-up location is Klarman Hall. Reserved wheelchairs not picked up will be made available on a first-come, first-serve basis to guests on campus. You will be asked to leave an ID card to ensure wheelchair return. Wheelchairs are available for guests while on campus and we ask that wheelchairs are picked up and returned each day. A guest with a wheelchair who decides to sit in the accessible seating section will be permitted to have one companion accompany them into the accessible seating section. If a guest with a wheelchair decides not to sit in the accessible seating section to sit with your family, that’s ok--Baker Lawn seating has open seating with great visibility throughout the lawn. Wheelchaier Rental Option If you need a longer-term wheelchair loan (several days to a week), contact a local vendor to rent a wheelchair for a cost. You can find contact details for local vendors on the Harvard University Disability Services website. https://commencement.harvard.edu/guests-disabilities Seating for HBS Events Seating for HBS events is open and accessible with many options for viewing ceremonies. In cases of significant impairment, additional seating arrangements can be made on a case-by-case basis. To request accessible seating, email: studentactivities@hbs.edu Golf Carts Available on campus for arrivals. departures and campus access. Golf carts will be on a campus loop. Aisle Seats on Baker Lawn There are many aisle seats and other seating for those with special needs. Guest Checklist Before May 29, 2022 Prepare for the weather. Events are outdoors unless the weather is truly severe. Be sure you have a ticket (digital or printout) for the Harvard University Commencement exercises. Check with your graduate as tickets are required. Review Commencement information on the Harvard University website, including directions and health and safety guidelines. For those attending Harvard University Commencement, plan your transportation to Harvard –Yard. We recommend taking the scheduled buses from the Renaissance Hotel to Harvard Square, public transportation from your hotel (if not the Renaissance) to Harvard or walking to Harvard Square from HBS, a 15-minute walk (note you may be walking on cobblestone/brick pathways). If you are unable to attend the Harvard University Commencement, simulcast viewing will be available at HBS. May 29, 2022 Allow extra time to travel to HU or HBS. Arrive at Harvard Yard by 7:00 am to be seated for the Commencement exercises (gates open at 6:30). Be sure you have a wristband to access the HBS Commencement Celebrations. There are no tickets, but wristbands are required. Connect with your graduate to get your wristband or pick up your wrist band at Klarman Hall on the HBS campus When you arrive at HBS after the Harvard University Commencement, you will be invited to pick up a box lunch. Lunch seating is available at various locations on campus. We suggest the guests of the Class of 2020 enjoy lunch at 11:00 am and the Class of 2021 at 12:00 pm. This schedule will lessen congestion at the lunch tent and allow time for graduates to assemble in Hamilton Courtyard. Check with your graduate for the approximate time your graduate's section will cross the stage. (Don’t forget to confirm your graduate’s class year and section, as in “I’m in Section G, Class of 2020”). Graduate Checklist Before May 29 Commencement Register for the Harvard University Ceremony through Harvard University. Register for your Reunion and/or HBS Commencement Celebration. Share Commencement website link with your guest. Know when you are crossing the stage and share with your guests. Check your final confirmation email or event APP for details. Install the Reunion and Commencement APP . Upon arrival at campus, May 28th: Stop by HBS at Klarman Hall to pick up your reunion and commencement materials. Saturday, May 28, 2022 (Reunion and Commencement), 9:00 am – 5:00 pm Sunday, May 29, 2022 (Commencement only), 6:00 am – 3:00 pm There, you will receive: Harvard University lanyard and credential (required for Harvard University Commencement). HBS name badge (for your reunion), name calling card for HBS stage crossing, and QR code card for photos (for HBS Commencement). Wrist bands for graduate and guest admission to the HBS Sunday activities. Additional event and directional information. On May 29 for Commencement Celebrations Graduates must arrive at Sever Gate, Harvard Yard by 7:00 am (graduates only) to line up with your class and process into the Ceremony. Cap & gown AND the lanyard with credential are required for entry. Do not come to the HBS campus! Be on time! Guests will enter the Yard separately. Wear your Commencement lanyard and regalia, required for admittance to Harvard Yard. Graduates and families will return to HBS immediately after the conclusion of the HU ceremony. Following the HU ceremony, graduates report to Hamilton Courtyard at the time scheduled for their class and section. This information will be sent to you in your final email confirmation and on the event APP. Accommodations Harvard Business School Reunion Discounted nightly room rates at the Renaissance Hotel are available for alumni and partners returning for their One-Year Reunion. Check the Reunions website for details. (Login required.) We expect this block to fill quickly and encourage you to secure your accommodations soon. The HBS rate is available until Thursday, May 1, 2022, or until the room block is full, whichever occurs first. Harvard University Commencement Additional Hotels Harvard University has a list of suggested hotels conveniently located near Harvard University as an alternative for alumni bringing families or extended families to the Commencement activities. Transportation Getting around Boston and Cambridge during Commencement weekend can be particularly challenging. This year, in addition to Harvard University and HBS events, a large music festival, Boston Calling, is taking place over Memorial Day Weekend directly across the street from HBS. Public transportation and walking (especially from HBS to HU) are suggested. Please allow extra time when travelling to and from HBS and Harvard University. Public Transportation Visit https://www.mbta.com/ for more information on navigating Boston’s public transit. Ride Share & Taxis GPS location for driving and ride shares is 111 Western Ave. Access is via Kresge Way. Taxis are available at Soldiers Field Park but may be limited due to Commencement activities in Boston and Cambridge. For the University-wide Commencement Ceremony, graduates will need to arrive at Sever Quad, Harvard Yard by 7:00 am Sunday, May 29. GPS location for driving and ride shares will be confirmed closer to the date. Walking Directions Harvard Yard is an approximate 10 to 20-minute walk from HBS. From HBS, proceed to North Harvard Street and turn right. Continue straight until you reach Massachusetts Avenue and gates to Harvard Yard. Harvard University Shuttle Shuttle service is available from HBS to Harvard Yard. Schedule and locations available here. Transportation from the Renaissance Hotel to Harvard Yard & Harvard Business School HBS will provide transportation from the Renaissance Hotel to Harvard Yard for the Commencement exercises. Note the transportation schedule below: 6:00 – 6:30 AM Renaissance Hotel to Harvard Yard – Graduates and guests Additional transportation will be provided from the Renaissance Hotel to HBS for those who prefer to watch the simulcast and those guests arriving for the HBS Celebration. 7:00 – 10:00 AM Renaissance Hotel to Harvard Business School Transportation from Harvard University host hotels Harvard University will provide transportation to Harvard Yard for the Commencement exercises from the following locations: 6:15 AM Copley Marriott Hotel to Harvard Yard Westin Copley to Harvard Yard Liberty Hotel to Harvard Yard Row Hotel (Sommerville) to Harvard Yard Parking Limited free parking (first come, first served) will be available at HBS for Reunion & Commencement attendees in the Spangler Lot and the SFP and OWA parking garages. →Campus Map & Directions Questions? Find answers to Frequently Asked Questions Email: youngalumni@hbs.edu To receive communications about the Harvard University Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021, please make sure the University has up-to-date contact information. You can update your contact information by logging into the Online Alumni Directory. ǁ Special Commencement 2020-21 Harvard Business School Boston, MA 02163 →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College