Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Forensic Science, BS Conduct Scientific Investigations to Aid the Judicial System Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Sciences Department(s) Chemistry 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Apply Scientific Evidence to Promote Justice The forensic science program at UCF provides you with an in-depth understanding of applying scientific evidence to the law. With two tracks available — biochemistry and chemistry — you’ll have the opportunity to focus on a specific area of interest that aligns with your aspirations, whether you enter into the workforce upon graduation or decide to continue your education. Coursework in forensic sciences covers a variety of areas, including instruments used, scientific writing, how to conduct and evaluate scientific investigations, as well as the role you’ll play in the judiciary system. Plus, gain hands-on experience in our state-of-the-art laboratory that’s equipped with polarized light microscopes, stereo microscopes and comparison microscopes. This gives you the chance to learn about the functionality of these microscopes and practice using them by performing microscopic analysis of simulated forensic samples. Upon graduation, you’ll be prepared to compete for forensic positions at local or national government agencies, labs, hospitals, among many others. Biochemistry Track This track has a strong biochemistryDNA focus to serve the needs of supervisory personnel in DNA sections of crime laboratories. Chemistry Track Coursework in this track emphasizes the application of modern chromatographic, spectroscopic and micro-analytical techniques to problems in forensic science. Highlights The forensic science program at UCF is accredited by the Forensic Science Education Programs Accreditation Commission. The forensic science bachelor’s degree program started in 1974, making it the second oldest program in the U.S. Job opportunities for forensic scientists are expected climb 11 percent through 2029. The national median salary for forensic science grads is $48,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Forensic Microscopy Learn about the polarized light microscope and its use in the identification and comparison of trace evidence. Forensic Biochemistry Explore concepts and procedures of contemporary forensic biochemistry, including the identification of body fluids and the use of genetic markers to establish identity. The laboratory portion of this course places an emphasis on techniques and procedures used in operational crime laboratories in the U.S. Forensic Crime Scene Investigation Gain a deeper understanding of the procedures for the collection, processing and investigation of forensic evidence discovered at a crime scene. Forensic Science Skills You'll Learn Build a solid foundation in the ability to plan, conduct and evaluate scientific investigations. Develop an understanding of the various ethical and legal issues that may arise in the field. Demonstrate expertise using instruments to conduct theory, operation and data interpretation. Gain the skills and knowledge needed to effectively present scientific information. Career Opportunities Drug Chemist Forensic Pathologist Firearms Examiner Trace Evidence Analyst Fingerprint Analyst Crime Scene Investigator College of Sciences News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Colleges & Campus Research in 60 Seconds Video: Examining Effective Crisis Communication Pegasus Professor Timothy Sellnow, who teaches in the Nicholson School of Communication and Media, researches the importance and impact of simply using the right words during… Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Student Life UCF’s Planetary Science Rock Stars Guests at MegaCon 2022 UCF faculty participate in pop culture convention to help people understand space science and why it matters in an entertaining way. Degree Search College of Sciences programs Bachelors Forensic Science (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida