Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ Featured News SMU News Featured News A Message from Dr Turner and Dr Dixon-Hall A message from Dr. Turner and Dr. Dixon Hall regarding the recent racial violence in East Buffalo and North Dallas May 16, 2022 Dear SMU Community, As we close out the spring semester, we celebrate the accomplishments of our graduates, faculty and staff and look forward to vacations and well-deserved rest. Yet, we are reminded that the virus of racial violence continues to stalk our community and country. Members of our African American and Asian American-Pacific Islander communities can attest to the sad reality that hatred and violence do not take a vacation. We mourn with the families and communities targeted by shooters in East Buffalo, New York and North Dallas. No one should fear a quick trip to the grocery store or the beauty shop because of their skin color or ethnicity. It would be easy to look around at the state of our world and believe nothing will change as we are bombarded with news of atrocities, wars and suffering each day. But we are world changers, equipped to meet this moment with intellect, passion, innovation and faithful courage. We believe that every Mustang is valued. So, wherever this summer finds each of you, let us remain committed as a community to being upstanders when someone is targeted. Offer support, call the authorities and refuse to endorse it with your silence when the hateful comment is made or the meme is sent. Change does not happen in a tidal wave; it happens in small drips of courage and care for one another. Sincerely, R. Gerald Turner President Dr. Maria Dixon Hall Chief Diversity Officer SMU News Broadcast Studio Contact Us SMU Research Blog Experts News Archives Featured News Research Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share