Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Learning Resources » Online Learning Strategies Set Navigation title in component Note-Taking and Test Strategies The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Online Learning Strategies Some classes at UC will be taught remotely using digital resources such as Canvas, videoconferencing, online programs, etc. We know you have a lot on your plate adjusting to the changes of being a distance learner, changing your learning environment, and establishing your new routine. Below are resources and suggestions from our Academic Coaches at the Learning Commons to help you adjust to this shift. The Learning Commons has also put together a presentation on Remote Learning Strategies that we suggest reviewing. Don't forget to check IT@UC's resources for technology and remote access. Advice from Academic Coaches Communication right arrow down arrow If you ever have questions about your course, email your professor. Don’t be intimidated. Your professor is here to help you and foster your learning. Ask questions about course concepts and course logistics. If you feel like a dialog would be helpful, set up a phone or Microsoft Teams meeting. Please be patient when emailing your professor. Many UC professors are working with literally hundreds of students. It may take a few days to receive a response, but don’t be afraid to follow up. Your classmates can also be important resources. Email the specific classmates if you have questions that they can answer. Many classes will have a general discussion board for questions to the group. Set up online group study times to work together. Most UC support programs have a strong online presence with contact information. If you require assistance from your advisor, Accessibility Resources, the Learning Commons, or other UC programs, reach out to them. UCIT is an important resource for your technology needs. Lastly, the Learning Commons has moved most of its academic support programs online! Work with writing and math tutors in online chatrooms. Discuss an online course working schedule with an Academic Coach. Even work in online student groups with Supplemental Instruction. View the programs to learn more and email our professional staff if you have questions! Technology & Space right arrow down arrow One of the first things you need to do is make sure you have the proper technology and the right learning space. When taking a remote learning course, you are effectively designing your own physical classroom, so you can successfully engage with the course content. When doing so, think about these questions: What are your technology needs? At the very least, you certainly require some computer (desktop, laptop, tablet, etc.) and connection to the internet. Do you need a webcam or microphone? Do you have course-related software? Is there an online version of your textbook that you can access? You can check to see if UC has your textbook online or check to see if it's available on Redshelf. Next, think about where you want to work. Sure, it would be nice to be in bed and work on your courses, but that is likely not conducive to learning. Work in a place where you can eliminate distractions and have easy access to all your course materials. Remember to take breaks from the screen. Periodically, get up from the desk chair and move around. Schedule Your Time right arrow down arrow Planning is essential. Develop a working calendar for the entire week. Keep important assignment deadlines in mind and build your learning/study time around them. Know what course activities you are doing and when you are doing them. Key tip: A Learning Commons Academic Coach can help you create that plan. Work consistently every day. Think about a face-to-face class. Usually, every MWF or T/Th, you are given a piece of a larger body of knowledge to learn. If, in an online class, you wait until Friday to learn and do everything, you will probably not be successful. Work on your courses consistently every day. Work on them at the same time each day to build that consistency (e.g., work on your English course every MWF at 2pm). Other tips: Think long term by utilizing a term-long calendar. This could be a paper-and-pen planner, a calendar or a digital platform Consult updated syllabi, Canvas, and messages from your professors for possible changes in due dates and expectations Create daily to-do lists. It is motivating to cross things off! Remember to space out larger assignments or projects across multiple days or study sessions Utilize Your Resources right arrow down arrow Take advantage of Academic Coaching, Peer Tutoring and Supplemental Instruction See the wide variety of tools and services available to you as a UC student Schedule a virtual meeting with your advisor Consider holding study groups via WebEX to meet with your classmates Reach out to Accessibility Resources Center (ARC) if you need support with your accommodations Utilize virtual office hours if your professor is offering them If you need clarification about assignments reach out to your professors via email Schedule a virtual meeting with the Academic Writing Center for assistance with papers Make Effective Use of Study Strategies right arrow down arrow Avoid passive studying (re-reading your notes, textbook, or Powerpoints) Study actively. Examples of active studying include: Concept mapping Flashcards Summarizing notes in your own words Self-testing Practice questions Teach the material to someone else Study material over the course of a few days, not just all at once; repetition is key. Downloadable Resources Time Management for Online Courses (PowerPoint) Managing Online Courses (PowerPoint) Tips for a Successful Transition to Online Classess (Word document) External Resources The links below will take you away from the University of Cincinnati's website: OWL at Purdue Khan Academy Computer Basics for an Online Learner General Strategies from Northeastern Study Tips How to Adapt to Online Courses What Makes a Successful Online Learner? Common Challenges for Online Learners Videos General Tips from SFU Study Skills from BYU Tips for Online Math Courses Writing Tips from the University of Purdue Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top