Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Professional & Continuing Education Continuing Education right arrow down arrow Contact Us OLLI right arrow down arrow About OLLI right arrow down arrow Locations Contact Us History, Mission & Vision Board of Trustees FAQs Classes & Registration Member Resources right arrow down arrow Member Handbook Class Handouts Teach for OLLI right arrow down arrow Moderator Info and Resources Support right arrow down arrow OLLI Donors Communiversity right arrow down arrow COURSES right arrow down arrow Arts & Handicrafts right arrow down arrow Floral Arranging Beginning Stained Glass Frame Loom Weaving Mosaics Wire Jewelry: Earrings Drawing Comics Learn to Crochet Art History at CAM Candlemaking Industrial Sewing Intro to Stained Glass Learn to Knit 1 & 2 Sketchbook Workshop Woodworking Computerized Woodworking Soldering & Circuits Laser Cutting & Engraving Soap Making Embroidery Summer Anklet Jewelry Mixed Media Acrylic Painting Color Mixing Intro to Watercolor Paint the Masters: Monet Paint the Masters: Renoir Paint the Masters: Van Gogh Painting Your Pet's Portrait Plein Air Painting Watercolor Florals Drawing Level 1 & 2 Music & Dance right arrow down arrow Ukulele : Level 1 & 2 Guitar: Level 1 & 2 Argentine Tango Dance Fiddling: Level 1 & 2 Mandolin: Level 1 & 2 Country Two-Step Wedding Dance Workshop Belly Dance Special Interest & History right arrow down arrow Cincinnati's Lost Architects Detective Series: 60s Murders History of FBI Cincinnati Chili Pyramid Hill Riding Tour Civil War: Morgan's Raid Cincinnati Mural Tour Photography right arrow down arrow Smartphone Photography 1 & 2 Photography: Level 1 & 2 Intermediate Photography Photo Retouching Fitness & Health right arrow down arrow Tai Chi Zumba & Bootcamp Lite Posture: Alexander Technique Belly Dancing Personal Development right arrow down arrow Insight Meditation Introduction to Voice Overs Makeup for Summer Journaling for Stress Relief How to Buy a Used Car Improv! Acting Personal Colors for Fashion Create Life You Love Personal Energy System Astrology Birthchart Care for Aging Skin Angel Cards Workshop Food & Drink right arrow down arrow Mozzarella Cheese Making Soft Cheese Making Sourdough Bread Making Winemaking at Home Feta Cheese Making Bourbon History & Tasting Home & Garden right arrow down arrow Organize Your Home Cactus & Succulent Centerpiece Staghorn Fern Wall Art Terrarium Lamps DIY Home Repairs Spring Ornithology Native Plant Tour Moss & Air Fern Wall Art Growing an Herb Garden Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Language right arrow down arrow Spanish: Level 1 Italian Level 1 & 2 Discover Sign Language Conversational French German: Level 1 & 2 English as a Second Language Sports right arrow down arrow Golf for All Levels Nature & Science right arrow down arrow Behind the Scenes at the Observatory Spring Birdwatching Cincinnati Moundbuilders Native Plant Tour Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Plants of Ohio Business & Finance right arrow down arrow Basic Computer Skills Financial Literacy Job Search Estate Planning Buying Your First Home Real Estate Investment Gift Certificates Travel right arrow down arrow Travel Health Travel Solo for Women Travel in Italy Lifelong Learning Online Ways to Register Location of Courses Frequently Asked Questions Suggest a Class Class Evaluation Teach a Class Test Prep right arrow down arrow LSAT TOEFL GRE/GMAT ACT SAT MCAT College Essay Writing CompTIA® Certification Prep Continuing Education for Teachers right arrow down arrow Arlitt Professional Educator Learning Series (APELS) Gifted Education Professional Development K-12 Blended & Beyond Teaching Learning Series Remote Teaching Learning Webinars Professional Development right arrow down arrow Healthcare & Fitness right arrow down arrow NASM Certified Personal Trainer Pharmacy Technician Certified Physical Therapy Aide Certified Nutrition Coach Business Management & Operations right arrow down arrow Lean Six Sigma Call Center Supervisor Certified Administrative Professional HVAC/R Training Marketing Technology Skills & Applications right arrow down arrow Adobe Certification Courses Microsoft Excel Google IT Support IT Fundamentals ITIL v4 Framework DevOps Certification Autodesk Revit Microsoft Power Platform School of IT: Tech Workforce Development right arrow down arrow Azure Cloud Technology Cybersecurity Bootcamp Networking Bootcamp Microsoft Excel Certification Project Management Certification (CAPM®) IMAP - Microcredentials Aspire Talent Acceleration Program right arrow down arrow For Employer Partners For Adult Learners Student Resources Home » About UC » Office of Professional and Continuing Education » Communiversity » Frequently Asked Questions Set Navigation title in component COURSES Arts & Handicrafts Floral Arranging Beginning Stained Glass Frame Loom Weaving Mosaics Wire Jewelry: Earrings Drawing Comics Learn to Crochet Art History at CAM Candlemaking Industrial Sewing Intro to Stained Glass Learn to Knit 1 & 2 Sketchbook Workshop Woodworking Computerized Woodworking Soldering & Circuits Laser Cutting & Engraving Soap Making Embroidery Summer Anklet Jewelry Mixed Media Acrylic Painting Color Mixing Intro to Watercolor Paint the Masters: Monet Paint the Masters: Renoir Paint the Masters: Van Gogh Painting Your Pet's Portrait Plein Air Painting Watercolor Florals Drawing Level 1 & 2 Music & Dance Ukulele : Level 1 & 2 Guitar: Level 1 & 2 Argentine Tango Dance Fiddling: Level 1 & 2 Mandolin: Level 1 & 2 Country Two-Step Wedding Dance Workshop Belly Dance Special Interest & History Cincinnati's Lost Architects Detective Series: 60s Murders History of FBI Cincinnati Chili Pyramid Hill Riding Tour Civil War: Morgan's Raid Cincinnati Mural Tour Photography Smartphone Photography 1 & 2 Photography: Level 1 & 2 Intermediate Photography Photo Retouching Fitness & Health Tai Chi Zumba & Bootcamp Lite Posture: Alexander Technique Belly Dancing Personal Development Insight Meditation Introduction to Voice Overs Makeup for Summer Journaling for Stress Relief How to Buy a Used Car Improv! Acting Personal Colors for Fashion Create Life You Love Personal Energy System Astrology Birthchart Care for Aging Skin Angel Cards Workshop Food & Drink Mozzarella Cheese Making Soft Cheese Making Sourdough Bread Making Winemaking at Home Feta Cheese Making Bourbon History & Tasting Home & Garden Organize Your Home Cactus & Succulent Centerpiece Staghorn Fern Wall Art Terrarium Lamps DIY Home Repairs Spring Ornithology Native Plant Tour Moss & Air Fern Wall Art Growing an Herb Garden Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Language Spanish: Level 1 Italian Level 1 & 2 Discover Sign Language Conversational French German: Level 1 & 2 English as a Second Language Sports Golf for All Levels Nature & Science Behind the Scenes at the Observatory Spring Birdwatching Cincinnati Moundbuilders Native Plant Tour Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Plants of Ohio Business & Finance Basic Computer Skills Financial Literacy Job Search Estate Planning Buying Your First Home Real Estate Investment Gift Certificates Travel Travel Health Travel Solo for Women Travel in Italy Lifelong Learning Online Ways to Register Location of Courses Frequently Asked Questions Suggest a Class Class Evaluation Teach a Class Frequently Asked Questions Are classes held in-person or online? right arrow down arrow Classes at Communiversity are held in-person where students can enjoy the enriching community aspect of continuing education. Occasionally a class is held online in live sessions with our local instructors. Our goal is for students to experience the same engaging content that you would enjoy in our classrooms, and participation during class time is encouraged. If you sign up for one of these classes, a Zoom link will be emailed to you the day before class. How do I register for a Communiversity class?  right arrow down arrow Use the online catalog to browse and register for classes. Online Registration. You may also call us at 513-556-6932 to register for a course. Is there a registration deadline? right arrow down arrow Each of our classes has a unique start date. If a class still has spots available, you are allowed to register up to 24-hours before the class start date/time. It is always best to register early to ensure you will get a spot in the class.  Can I reserve a class and pay later? right arrow down arrow We are not able to hold spots in a class without payment. I will be unable to attend all sessions, may I still sign up? right arrow down arrow Yes, these classes are noncredit and you will not be penalized for missing sessions, however we are not able to pro-rate the fee, as the instructors are paid per student.  What happens if a course is full?  right arrow down arrow If the course is full, you can sign up for our waiting list. Once a spot opens up, you will receive an email letting you know you can enroll in the class. Every effort will be made to accommodate your ability to take classes with us.  How do I find the classroom? right arrow down arrow Daily class locations are posted on the door of Suite 208 in the UC Victory Parkway Campus Administration Building where classes are held. You will also receive an email two days before the class date with information regarding parking and the room number. If you don't receive the email, please check your spam or junk folders, then give us a call if you need further information at 513-556-6932, or email to ce@uc.edu. What about parking?  right arrow down arrow Most of our classes are held at UC's Victory Parkway Campus at 2220 Victory Parkway, Cincinnati, OH 45206. Classes are held after 5 pm and on weekends. During these times, parking is free in the West Lot at the Administration Building. You may park in the lot facing Victory Parkway or the one on the south side of the building. Please reference Parking Map for additional details. Parking lots are well lighted. Parking at off-campus locations is noted in the course description. Please call 513-556-6932, if you have any questions. Adobe Acrobat Reader is required to view PDF files. Download Adobe Reader. Who do I contact for technical help? right arrow down arrow For technical support, please call 513-556-4354 or email ce@uc.edu. Please note that our office hours are M-F 9:30 am-6:30 pm. We will make every effort to be responsive and email is the fastest way to contact us.  Is there an age limit?  right arrow down arrow While our classes are tailored to adult learners 18 and over, there are exceptions. Our ACT SAT Test Prep classes welcome high school students, and we offer a few classes for parents with their children. If you a 16 or 17-year old interested in a class, please send us an email and we’ll check to see if the class is right for you.  What if there are changes to published courses? right arrow down arrow If a change for a course occurs, we will make every effort to notify you using the contact information you provided in your profile. We do reserve the right to change times, locations or instructors. If we must cancel a class, we offer you the opportunity to transfer to another class or receive a full refund. What if I do not receive confirmation of my enrollment? right arrow down arrow If you have not received confirmation within two days of the start date for your class, please send us an email at ce@uc.edu, or call 513-556-6932 and leave us a message. We’ll get back to you with a confirmation before your class starts. Our office hours are 9:30 am-6:30 pm Monday-Friday. How do I pay for material or supply fees?  right arrow down arrow Some classes require additional fees for materials or supplies, and they are noted in the class description. These fees are to be paid to the instructor at the first-class session. These fees are non-refundable, and discounts do not apply to them. What about text books?  right arrow down arrow Classes requiring the purchase of a textbook are noted in the course description and will be included in your confirmation letter.   Are there any discount options?  right arrow down arrow There are discounts for one class per term for full-time UC and UC Health employees to receive a 50% discount, and current OLLI members to receive a 10% discount. Discounts cannot be used with other promotions or discounts. In order to take advantage of this option, please call 513-556-6932. Excluded from discounts are online courses and certificate programs, food and drink classes, and test preparation classes. Other exceptions may apply and are noted in the course catalog. Are refunds available? right arrow down arrow Yes. We are proud of the high-level of our programming and the quality of our instructors, and we want you to love your Communiversity class, which is why your satisfaction is 100% guaranteed. If you are ever less than completely satisfied with a class, we will issue a credit for the registration fee toward a future class. Please contact us at ce@uc.edu or 513-556-6932 within seven days of completing your class.  What if a class is postponed due to weather? right arrow down arrow When inclement weather threatens the safety of the University of Cincinnati community, an emergency closing will be announced. We will make every effort to reschedule the classes affected. Notices of cancellation due to weather will be posted on our website at uc.edu/ce/commu. Communiversity will not issue refunds for classes which have been postponed due to inclement weather or other circumstances beyond our control.   What if I must cancel a class? right arrow down arrow If you must cancel a class, please email us at ce@uc.edu, as soon as possible. A refund of the registration fee can be made up to 48 hours before the first session, or you may receive a credit for a future Communiversity class. If you contact us on the day of the class, or after it has occurred, you will not be entitled to a credit or transfer.  How often are catalogs published? right arrow down arrow Classes are offered year-round. Catalogs are published in August, December, February and May, and always available online. To receive our print catalog, Join Our Mailing List.  Is the course covered by financial aid, scholarship or tuition remission?  right arrow down arrow Communiversity classes are noncredit courses, so they are not eligible for tuition remission. However, we keep class fees as low as possible to be affordable to most students. UC employees and donors are eligible for a discount. Please contact us at ce@uc.edu or 513-556-6932 to learn more. What is the success rate of passing the tests after taking your Test Preparat\on and Review classes? right arrow down arrow We have offered Test Prep Classes since 1994 and have hundreds of evaluations on file in our office that attest to the positive worth the students place on the class. These are evaluations that students complete during the last session to let us know their opinion of the class; therefore this occurs prior to the students taking the test itself. In all these years, no one has ever called to complain that the class did not prepare them to take the test. However, we have not yet been able to conduct a study to determine the “before” and “after” test score results of taking these classes.  What if I have special needs?  right arrow down arrow If you have a disability and need specialized services, contact the Accessibility Services Office at (513) 556-6823 well in advance of your class to discuss your needs.  What are the technical requirements for online classes?  right arrow down arrow A reliable Internet access with Internet Explorer; Firefox; or Safari web browser. Audio software such as Windows Media, Real, Quicktime, or Flash. Speakers to listen to audio. How to Prevent Communiversity Emails from Landing in Gmail's Spam Folder? right arrow down arrow The simplest way is to make sure to add cechcommuniversity@ucmail.uc.edu to your contacts list. Read more. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top