COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Courtesy Credit Union of America representatives Lea Ann Gabbert, Kym Money and Bradley Dyer accepted the College Champion award from WSU’s College of Applied Studies interim dean Clay Stoldt and WSU Foundation development director Aaron Winter. May 02, 2022Teacher Apprentice ProgramScholarshipsCollege of Applied Studiesschool of educationstudentsWSU FoundationAccess and Affordability Credit Union of America pledges $250,000 gift, recognized as Champion for College of Applied Studies By Strategic Communications Credit Union of America was recognized Friday as a 2022 Champion for Wichita State’s College of Applied Studies, honoring its ongoing engagement and financial support of the future educators of Kansas. CUA has pledged an additional $250,000 to the college to continue funding the Corbin Connect program, ongoing technology needs, scholarships, and programming for CAS students. “The College of Applied Studies is thrilled to have Credit Union of America’s continued support through the extension of this partnership,” said Clay Stoldt, interim dean of CAS. “CUA has already shown a deep commitment to serving educators through Corbin Connect and this gift will allow the College of Applied Studies to build on that strong foundation while expanding our reach to better serve students, faculty and community partners.” The College Champion Award is presented each spring to an individual or group who has been particularly impactful to the college. CUA’s partnership reaches beyond monetary donations, and employees regularly participate in volunteer and mentorship opportunities with CAS. “Credit Union of America is honored and humbled to receive the CAS College Champion Award,” said Frank Shoffner, CUA president and CEO. “Our daily mission is to make a difference in our members’ lives and in our communities. We’re excited to see that mission extend to future educators through our support of WSU.” CUA’s gift of $250,000 will be made over five years, providing funding for room upgrades, equipment and supplies, along with scholarships for five students each year. Funds will also go to outreach, training and support for the Teacher Apprentice Program. The College of Applied Studies offers degree paths in education, leadership, human performance studies and sport management. It combines nationally accredited programs, exclusive scholarships and applied learning opportunities to equip students with the experience they need to be successful in their chosen fields. Corbin Connect is a space within the Corbin Education Building dedicated to promoting collaboration, innovation and education for WSU and the surrounding community. CUA’s support of the space equips it to engage stakeholders in a variety of impactful ways that transcend traditional university activities. College of Applied Studies When it comes to producing qualified educators, athletic trainers, exercise scientists and sport management professionals—nobody offers more than Wichita State's College of Applied Studies. We combine nationally accredited programs, exclusive scholarships and unmatched applied learning opportunities to give our students everything they need to build bright futures. Learn more about CAS Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats WSU Foundation Woolseys give $1.3 million to fulfill vision for Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©