Skip to main content Restrict my search to Human Resources Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Human Resources About HR Careers Careers HR Service Center I-9 and eVerify FML Employee Verification Prior State Service CHRI Request Employees Staff Scholarships New Employees Foreign National Employees Graduate Students Temporary Student Employees Employee Recognition Program HR Departments Benefits Family and Medical Leave Act Information ERS Annual Enrollment Benefits at a Glance Benefits Updates Employee Assistance Program ERS Annual Enrollment - TexFlex Insurance Retirement Worker's Compensation at UH Benefits FAQs Compensation HR Business Partners Reduction in Force Employee Terminations Payroll Services Talent Acquisition Why Work for UH? Staff Employment NHO Request CHRI Request Talent Development Virtual Training LinkedIn Learning Policies SAM HR Policies MAPP HR Policies Common Policies & Resources Administrative Responsibility ACA E-Verify FLSA Regulations Update Fitness Release Time and Wellness Leave Policy Workplace Posters PASS Navigation HR Communication HR Online Resource Guide UH Home Human Resources Policies FLSA Policies Administrative Responsibility Affordable Care Act E-Verify FLSA FRT and Wellness Policy Teaching Relief Policy Workplace Posters FLSA Regulations Update The U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) has announced changes to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), raising the salary threshold required to qualify for exemption from overtime to $36,000 per year, an increase from $23,660 per year effective December 1st, 2016. This is a significant change. A large number of UH staff members is expected to transition from exempt status (i.e. monthly paid) to non-exempt status (i.e. biweekly paid and overtime eligible). The FLSA rule change does not apply to faculty, but it does affect some staff, and post-doc positions. Please note that this change in FLSA exemption status is not an indicator of professional status change or decrease of the importance of your work. UH is simply required to be in compliance by federal law. The Human Resources department is working closely with leaders in each division to review all positions affected and ensure full compliance of the new changes. All jobs are categorized by an employment classification determined by the FLSA. UH's Compensation Department works within the FLSA guidelines in evaluating the employment classifications of all staff and faculty positions. This takes place during the creation, backfilling, or re-classification of positions. These classifications are based on several factors such as the actual job duties outlined in the job description, as well as the salary, among other things. Below are the two types of employment classifications: Exempt Employee Not Eligible for Overtime or Compensatory Time Must record exceptions to work (Sick, Vacation, Jury Duty, Bereavement, etc.) Non-Exempt Employee Eligible for Overtime or Compensatory Time Must record all hours worked in addition to absences Additional Resources Payroll Policies Department of Labor University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies