Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search Conference Services Conference Services Conference Services expand_more Contact Us Event Calendar Information expand_more Internal UW Customers Frequently Asked Questions Exploring Tacoma Parking and Directions Our Services expand_more A/V for Conferences Conference Signage Event Planning Food & Alcohol Online Payments Ordering Rentals & Flowers Promoting Your Event on Campus Our Spaces Virtual Services expand_more Hosting a Virtual Event Planning Guide for Virtual Events Book an Event MyUW Map Tools Home The University of Washington Tacoma offers an excellent location for your next workshop, conference or meeting. Our urban campus and its user-friendly facilities are located just 25 minutes from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport. The campus is right off Interstate 5 in the heart of Downtown Tacoma; close to museums, theaters, hotels and dining. Our Conference Services staff comes with a multitude of experiences in higher education and general event management. From the beginning stages of an event to the post stages, we pride ourselves on service to our customers and can offer help with the following: On-site Facilitation Catering Arrangements Hotel Arrangements Promotion & Registration Assistance Media Support Operation Information In accordance with the current University policies and the health of our community, we are currently accepting reservations for our event and conference spaces under specific guidelines. While some spaces are open again, we do require the use of masks regardless of vaccination status while indoors. We are committed to continuing to serve our clients and the UW Tacoma community's needs during this difficult time. To contact us remotely, please feel free to call/email here or fill out our contact form here. For more information about UW Tacoma and COVID-19, please click here. We look forward to seeing you again soon! Contact Information UW Tacoma has a variety of spaces that are perfect for: Trainings & Meetings Choose from a selection of comfortable conference rooms, some of which have the flexibility to be reconfigured. View Conference Rooms Workshops Choose from a list of classrooms ranging in capacity from 20 to 104 seats. We are sure to have a classroom that fits your needs. View Classrooms Conferences Choose from our flexible event spaces to give you just the right feel you are looking for in a conference. View Event Spaces Fundraisers & Special Events Have a special event planned? We have flexible event spaces that we can work with you to make feel just the way you want it for your guests. View Event Spaces Seminars & Lectures Choose from a list of classrooms ranging in capacity from 20 to 104 seats. We are sure to have a classroom that fits your needs. View Classrooms Contact Conference Services email tacconf@uw.edu phone_iphone 253-692-4615 OFFICE HOURS: M-F 8 am - 5 pm ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy