Skip to Main Content Emergency Notification COVID-19: Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. SJSU Homepage Professional EducationSan José State UniversityCollege of Professional and Global Education Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Winter Open University Summer Contact Us State Authorization SJSU Home>Professional Education one.SJSU Canvas Athletics Give to SJSU Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Contact - CPGE San Jose State University One Washington Square Student Union - CPGE San Jose, CA 95192-0135 Office Hours: Monday-Friday 8am - 5pm Phone: 408.924.2670 Fax: 408.924.2666 Email: cpge@sjsu.edu site index Professional Education is a more flexible way to go to college and advance your career. Courses are available on campus, off-campus, online and during academic gap periods. All courses are taught by SJSU faculty for college credit. Courses are available through the following programs: Academic Programs: Earn a graduate degree or certificate to advance your professional career while continuing to work. Open University: Disqualified SJSU students and the general community interested in taking college courses may enroll. Winter Session: Earn up to 4 units in 2 weeks on campus or online to lighten your spring course load. Summer Session: Take 5 to 10-week courses on campus or online to get ahead or catch up on classes you need. CEU Professional Development: Partner with SJSU to help students from a variety of professions meet their industry's continuing education requirements. Business & Management MBA for Professionals Taxation MS Transportation Management More... Engineering & Technology Software Engineering, Specialization in Cybersecurity (MA) Software Engineering, Specialization in Cloud and Mobile Computing More... Library & Info Science Master of Library and Information Science (MLIS) Master of Archives & Records Administration (MARA) More... BioTech & Healthcare Public Health Biotechnology Medical Products Development Management More... SJSU Links and Resources Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers and Jobs Catalog Emergency Food & Housing King Library Land Acknowledgement Parking and Maps Privacy Annual Security Report [pdf] Contact us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint San José State University One Washington Square, San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 ©2018 Last Modified: Nov 29, 2021