Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Facilities Management Menu Main Nav Facilities Management Submit a Request Back Back Close About Overview Locations Meet Our Staff Departments & Services Overview Business Service Center Capital Projects Custodial Services Energy & Engineering Landscape Services Locks & Keys Mail Services Maintenance & Repair Moving & Storage Recycling Sustainability Related Links Campus Maps Campus Webcams University Construction Updates Floor Plans News & Updates Submit a Request Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Sustainability Facilities Management Departments & Services Sustainability Departments & Services Business Service Center Capital Projects Custodial Services Energy & Engineering Landscape Services Locks & Keys Mail Services Maintenance & Repair Moving & Storage Recycling Sustainability The University embraces its sustainability goals through the following areas: Energy and Climate Change Water and Air Quality Education and Outreach Leadership and Social Justice Landscape and Natural Features Clean Transportation Waste Reduction and Recycling LEED Buildings We have a Tree App! Thanks to Allen Li '21, Megan Luff '20, Landscape Services and the staff at Davey Tree we are able to identify not only the different types of trees we have on campus but the benefits they provide our community and the environment. Use the QR code or go to the Apple store to download the app. Happy tree hunting! The university has made a commitment to have all newly constructed buildings be certified as LEED Silver or greater. Click on the image to see some of the sustainable attributes in 245 Beacon St. our newest LEED Silver Building. The Office of Sustainability participates in the annual Campus Race to Zero Waste competition (CR2ZW), formerly known as Recyclemania, and other programs to help educate our community about the importance of recycling to reduce waste, composting to remove food waste from landfills, and reusing items by donating them. The Office of Sustainability manages a beehive on top of Fulton Hall. Watch our latest video through our Bee cam! Landscape Services in collaboration with the Office of Sustainability presents Professor Tom Wessels Co-Evolution: A Model for Sustainability. Based on his book, "The Myth of Progress." Use the QR code to register and his books will be available for purchase. The Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education's STARS committee awarded gold for BC's 2022 report on Sustainability. View the story here! About Us Sustainable News Academic Programs Campus Groups Student Guide How to Recycle and Compost About Us What We Do The Office of Sustainability at Boston College serves as a resource and catalyst to advance University goals for campus-wide sustainability. It collaborates with Facilities Management, Boston College Dining Services, and student groups to organize and support various environmental sustainability initiatives and projects. The office works to: Implement energy conservation measures across facilities Develop a comprehensive approach to energy conservation and water management Coordinate a recycling and composting program across campus Incorporate and maintain natural features across campus Identify potential sustainability opportunities Measure and report on annual progress toward sustainability goals Meet Our Team Bruce Dixon Sustainability and Energy Specialist WCAS '21, LEED GA, EBCP WCAS 2021 Jeremiah O'Connor S.J., Undergraduate Award Recipient Sustainability Office Interns Katherine (Kate) Kelly '24, Garden Steward Lauren Dadekian '24, Office Intern Tyler DiFiore '23, Office Intern Katherine (Kate) Cunha '25, Office Intern Contact 300 Hammond Pond Parkway Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Email: sustainability@bc.edu Office Phone: 617-552-3738 Sustainable News Suscribe to the Office of Sustainability's listserv for updates about the latest environmental events around campus and the Boston area including events from Boston College's green clubs, campus lectures, and the latest Environmental Eagle newsletter. Subscribe to Listserv Sustainability Newsletter Read about the latest sustainability inititatives, activites and events taking place on campus in the newsletter from the student group EcoPledge and The Office of Sustainability. The Environmental Eagle Archive First Year Experience Every Tuesday, the Office of Sustainability will be at the Information Fair where parents can ask questions about what we do to inform the campus community about our sustainable initiatives. Look for some free swag from the Office of Sustainability! Academic Programs The interdisciplinary Environmental Studies Program is currently researching ways to conserve the environment, discovering engineering alternatives, and energy efficiency practices. Environmental Studies Program The Woods College of Advancing Studies offers a professional studies certificate in sustainability. It is an online, six-course program open to students who hold a high school diploma or a bachelor's degree. It allows recipients to demostrate their compentency in pressing questions of the day, including climate change, effects of population growth, shifting demogaphics, and the ensuing natural resource limits of energy, food, water, materials, and waste. Sustainability Certificate Campus Groups Join the green community. Bike BC Bike BC is a student-run bikeshare program serving the entire Boston College community. Bike BC Charity Water Boston College charity: water is an initiative started by students whose goal is to bring awareness to the global water crisis and raise money to support charity: water campaigns. Since its inception, BC charity: water has been able to raise thousands of dollars and fund the development of a drilling rig and wells in two different villages. BC Charity Water Climate Justice BC Climate Justice BC aims to educate about the dangers of climate change and how students can be agents for change; unite with local and national climate activists to strengthen social support for climate justice; and to engage in activism within the BC community. Climate Justice BC EcoPledge EcoPledge is Boston College's largest student-run environmental club that works toward making BC more sustainable. EcoPledge educates the BC community about environmental issues by showing films, presenting lectures, and hosting annual celebratory events like Harvestfest and Earth Day. EcoPledge members often go beyond the campus, participating in local community clean-ups, national environmental conferences, and hiking and camping outings throughout New England. EcoPledge Green Ambassador Program Establshed in 2014, Athletics, Facilities Services, and the Office of Sustainability have partnered to make the Green Ambassador program to support ongoing campus recycling efforts. Green Ambassadors welcome fans to BC at selected sites and offer information on game day activities and respond to recycling questions. For information about the Green Ambassador program please email sustainability@bc.edu Outdoor Adventures Run by Campus Recreation, Boston College offers students the opportunity to experience nature through day and weekend trips including rock climbing, hiking, sea kayaking, paddleboarding, and backpacking. Outdoor Adventures Outdoor Club The student run Outdoor Club organizes trips for BC students to get outside and enjoy the environment. Trips include hiking, climbing, kayaking, white water rafting, and skiing. Outdoor Club Real Food BC Real Food BC is a student group on campus that strives for the establishment of a more sustainable food system by promoting the purchasing of food from local, green, humane sources in order to support localized food production and to reduce carbon emissions that result from long-distance food shipments. BC Dining Services has already taken steps towards more sustainable food procurement. In collaboration with Real Food BC, BC Dining created Addie's Loft, an organic eatery that offers food from local, sustainable sources. Real Food BC Sustainable Living and Learning Community Run by the Office of Residential Life, this living and learning community educates students on sustainablity and encourages them to be active members in their community. Students apply at the end of their first year and live on the sustainability floor during their sophomore year. Living and Learning Communities UGBC Environmental Caucus The Undergraduate Government of Boston College works with environmental clubs on campus to create a greener BC. Their Environmental Caucus is dedicated to sustianabiltiy and making green changes on campus. UGBC Student Guide to Sustainable Living The Office of Sustainability created this book as reference guidelines for the Boston College student body. These guidelines cover recycling on campus, conservation efforts, green cleaning, and how to get involved in sustainable activities. If you would like printed copies to share with your roommates, clubs, classes, or if you have any questions, please feel free to reach out at sustainability@bc.edu. Student Guide to Sustainable Living How to Recycle and Compost “Can I recycle this?” Next time you ask this all-too-familiar question, go to the Recyclopedia. Simply enter in your item and get your answer. Recyclopedia This resource can answer your tougher questions too, including “Why don’t plastic bags belong in the recycling bin?” and “What happens to what I recycle? Where does it all go?”. Boston College uses single stream recycling, which means you can throw all your recyclables in one bin, there is no need to sort it. However, make sure to rinse recyclable containers before recycling them and do not recycle plastic bags. Why Compost? Composting is good for the land, reduces dependence on fossil fuels, and reduces landfill waste and incineration. Compost can be turned into a natural fertilizer, adding nutrient-rich soil to the land and promoting biodiversity. Composting is a lot easier than recycling. Dining staff will compost for you in Corcoran Commons, McElroy Commons, Lyons Hall and Stuart Dining Hall. All food that you haven't eaten goes into the compost bin. What Can You Compost? Fruit and vegetables Meat Poultry Bones and fat trimmings Dairy products Eggshells Coffee grounds Paper napkins Tea bags Back To Top Back To Top Office of Sustainability 300 Hammond Pond Parkway 617-552-3738 sustainability@bc.edu About Services News & Updates Subscribe to Listserv Facebook Quick Links 🔒 BIM 360 Ops CRE EagleSpace Facilities Data Hub Facilities Intranet FMApp How To Pages Mobile Contact List PMWeb Shutdown Requests Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College