Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE BIOLOGICAL STRUCTURE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 B STR 301 General Anatomy (4) NW Introduces the student to general human anatomy, examining both cellular and gross anatomy. The relationship between structure and function is a central focus of course content. Offered: jointly with NURS 301. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 301 B STR 498 Undergraduate Thesis (*, max. 30) Individual research projects under the supervision of an instructor. For senior medical students. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 498 B STR 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 30) Individual research projects in cellular and developmental biology, experimental immunology, reproductive biology, neurobiology, molecular structure, morphometrics, computer modeling, and related fields under the supervision of an instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 499 B STR 510 Seminar in Anatomy (1) Scientific and historical basis of selected studies in biological structure, anatomy, and human development. Original literature used as basis for textbook descriptions. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 510 B STR 515 Biological X-Ray Structure Analysis (3) Theory of x-ray diffraction, with emphasis on applications to biological systems. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Stenkamp Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 515 B STR 519 Current Problems in Macromolecular Structure (2, max. 10) Stenkamp Macromolecular structures related to specific areas of biological research. Emphasis on discussion of relevant research papers and use of computer graphics to visualize the molecular structures. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 519 B STR 520 Structure Based Design of Drugs (3, max. 9) Hol, Verlinde Research papers illustrating protein-structure- based design of new drugs. Review of methods and extensive discussion of all known mechanisms of drug resistance. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 520 B STR 521 Advanced Biomacromolecular Crystallography (3, max. 9) Hol, Merritt, Stenkamp Aspects of protein crystallography ranging from crystal growth, phase determination methods, density averaging to refinement, fiber diffraction of DNA and proteins. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 521 B STR 540 Special Problems in Anatomy (1-6, max. 6) Special projects in anatomy under sponsorship of faculty member. Prerequisite: graduate, medical, or dental student standing and permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 540 B STR 555 Laboratory Rotation in Biological Structure (*, max. 5) Introduction to experimental design, research methods, and scientific thought in laboratories of faculty members. Provides hands-on experience, an entrance into the literature of the field, and opportunities for discussion with all members of the laboratory. First-year dental students only. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 555 B STR 557 Biomolecular Structure Seminar (1, max. 9) Literature review of key research in biomolecular structure in the form of short presentations by participants followed by discussion. Critical evaluation of methods and results regarding properties and protein structure determination. Prerequisite: graduate standing in biological structure or biochemistry and permission of instructor. Instructors: Hol Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 557 B STR 580 P-Anatomy Teaching Practicum (*, max. 8) Opportunity for medical student (or other professional student) to gain teaching experience in biological structure and human biology courses, including gross anatomy, histology, and neuroanatomy. May include lecture, laboratory, conference, depending on student interest, experience. Credit based on course credit in which student is assisting. Prerequisite: permission of course chairperson. Instructors: Clark Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 580 B STR 584 Seminar in Neurogenesis (1, max. 16) Current research on process by which neurons are generated in the nervous system. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Bermingham-McDonogh, Dhaka Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 584 B STR 590 Electron Cryo-Microscopy of Biological Macromolecules and Complexes (3) Wang Introduces high-resolution cryo-electron microscopy (cryoEM); image formation and three-dimensional reconstruction theories and available software. Includes hands-on experience using the cryoEM facility for data collection and analysis; and presentations on student projects. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 590 B STR 591 X-Ray and NMR Analysis of Macromolecular Structure (1, max. 9) Current topics in research on molecular structure, usually emphasizing techniques of x-ray crystallography. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Hol Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 591 B STR 598 Reading in Biological Structure (2) Critical evaluation of research in biological structure, including current problems, methods, and future directions by reading and discussing research and review papers. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 598 B STR 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 600 B STR 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 700 B STR 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B STR 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022