Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health The Rutgers Experience Rutgers–Newark Rutgers University–Newark Anchored in Newark, New Jersey Leveraging its diverse student and faculty population and high-impact scholarship, Rutgers University–Newark is a leading urban research university that cultivates the talent essential to transforming communities and changing the world. #2 Campus diversity U.S. News & World Report 65+ Majors and academic programs 40+ Premier research centers 500+ Full-time faculty Discover Rutgers University-Newark City Learning Just minutes from New York City, the city of Newark is a cornerstone of New Jersey with a strong sense of community that Rutgers–Newark is focused on supporting. Rutgers–Newark, recognized as an anchor institution in the city, is routinely ranked among the most diverse college campuses in the U.S. and is committed to boundary-crossing scholarship, diverse talent cultivation, and civic engagement. Schools Graduate School–Newark Rutgers Business School–Newark and New Brunswick Rutgers Law School School of Arts and Sciences–Newark School of Criminal Justice School of Public Affairs and Administration Chancellor Nancy Cantor Nancy Cantor is chancellor of Rutgers University–Newark. A distinguished leader in higher education, Cantor is recognized nationally and internationally as an advocate for leveraging diversity in all its dimensions; re-emphasizing the public mission of colleges and universities as engines of discovery, innovation, and social mobility; and achieving the full potential of universities as anchor institutions that collaborate with partners from sectors to help their communities thrive. Read more about Chancellor Cantor and her office Education Rutgers University–Newark is a gateway to educational opportunity and an engine of social mobility for New Jersey’s diverse population. Environment The Rutgers–Newark campus is in an urban setting that is easily accessible via bus, train, or roadway, serving both residential and commuter students. Community An energetic community environment where a cross-pollination of cultures, interests, ideas, and backgrounds enriches the student experience, both inside and outside of the classroom. Choosing Rutgers–Newark Delivering exceptional education, a reputation that opens doors, and a lively, diverse campus environment. It’s no wonder why so many choose Rutgers University–Newark. Undergraduate Admissions Students choose Rutgers–Newark for its outstanding reputation in academics, civic engagement, renowned faculty, and student success. Tuition and Fees More than three-quarters of students receive financial aid, making Rutgers–Newark an affordable choice before and after graduation. Virtual Tour From state-of-the-art classroom facilities to great places to socialize and study on campus, there is plenty to explore at Rutgers–Newark. Graduate Education Rutgers University-Newark is a leading urban university for research, graduate and professional studies across a range of disciplines. Honors College The Honors College seeks curious and creative undergraduate students who are eager to develop themselves further by exploring an idea or passion and working with faculty to conduct original research and explore career pathways. Community Engagement As an anchor institution in Newark, Rutgers is committed to the city’s people and places. Student Life Make friends, get involved, get fit, try something new. At Rutgers–Newark you’ll find tons of student activities and events to connect you to the campus and the community. Discover student organizations where you can try something you’ve always wanted to, or start your own organization surrounded by new friends with similar interests. Campus Life and Activities See All Student Organizations and Events Honors Living-Learning Community A transformational college access program, the Honors Living-Learning Community (HLLC) is focused on identifying promising talent and broadening opportunities for those who have been impacted by systematic inequality. More about the HLCC Housing and Dining Rutgers–Newark offers traditional dorms, suites, apartments, and dining halls—plus the convenience of being a quick walk away from class. More about Housing and Dining Recreation and Wellness It’s important to take care of yourself. Rutgers–Newark provides an array of health and wellness services for students, including a health center, counseling, health insurance, and more. Stay active by participating in recreation programs designed to enhance your health, wellness, and overall quality of life. More about Student Recreation Programs More about Health Services Athletics Home of the Scarlet Raiders, Rutgers–Newark competes in several regional athletic conferences at the NCAA Division III level for men’s and women’s sports. More about the Scarlet Raiders Featured Stories Great things are happening at Rutgers–Newark. Take a look. Rutgers–Newark Among Top Schools Nationally for Success of Low-Income Graduates Student Profile: Ayoko Kessouagni Gets Down to Business Eradicating Racial Disparities through the Arts and Humanities—Professor Melissa Valle Earns Wilson Fellowship Business School Professor Hilal Atasoy Partners on $1.9 Million NSF Project Piloting Broadband Access in Underserved Communities Commencement Rutgers–Newark Senior Accepted to Seven Top-Ranked Graduate Schools Amplifying Newark Voices through Jazz and Poetry Bank of America Commits $1M to Rutgers-Newark’s Honors Living-Learning Community Elijah Smith Appointed Director of Debate at Rutgers University–Newark Faculty Spotlight: Internationally Renowned Artist Sandy Skoglund Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster