Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Paul L. Foster Success Center Pre-Law Menu Pre-Law Podcasts Ep. 1 - Pre-Advising 1 (required listening before advising) Ep. 2 - Pre-Advising 2 (required listening before advising) Ep. 3 - Personal Statements Ep. 4 - Clerking in the US Supreme Court Ep. 5 - Corporate law in NYC Ep. 6 - International Affairs & Public Policy Degrees Ep. 7 - The Law and Technology Ep. 8 - Baylor in Washington DC Ep.9 - Law & The FBI Ep. 10 - Addenda & Letters of Recommendation Ep.11 - A Senior Perspective Ep. 12 - Immigration Law Ep. 13 - Law School, The First Year Ep. 14 - Law School Interviews Ep. 15 - Thinking through the Bar Exam Ep. 16 - Family Law Ep. 17 - From Special Forces to Law School Ep. 18 - Exploring a diplomatic career Ep. 19 - Life with the Navy JAG Corps Ep. 20 - Criminal Law Ep. 21 - Pre-Law Student Organizations Ep. 22 - Where can a J.D. take you? An interview with Violet Sullivan Ep. 23 - In-House Counsel Ep. 24 - How to Network Panel Discussion Ep. 25 Diplomatic Security and Foreign Service Careers Is Law School For Me? Preparing for Law School Choosing Courses Minor in Legal Reasoning and Analysis Pre-Law Reading List Special Academic Opportunities Pre Law Timeline Selecting Law Schools Applying to Law School Make a Gift Paul L. Foster Success Center Pre-Law Located in the Paul L. Foster Success Center, Baylor Pre-Law is a pre-professional program designed to provide advising, programming and resources to students of all majors who are considering a career in law or national security. Explore Why Baylor Apply Podcast Give Student Stories Alumni Stories Giana Pirolli "I'm so thankful for the guidance and support from the Pre-Law Office throughout my time at Baylor. I have grown professionally and academically since my freshman year because of the opportunities that have been provided." Teylor West "To say that the Pre-Law Office has guided me during my time at Baylor is an understatement. The Office has played a significant role in my development as a student and has helped define my path to becoming a Securities Lawyer." Victoria Terry "Baylor Pre-Law has inspired me to achieve academic excellence while setting myself up for success in my future career. Going into my senior year, I feel more prepared than ever to take the necessary steps for applying to law school." Events See More Events May 16 2022 Minimester session (ends 06/02/2022) Jun 3 2022 Summer Session I (ends 07/08/2022) Jun 20 2022 Juneteenth - University Holiday Jul 4 2022 Independence Day - University Holiday Pre-Law Sid Richardson, Room 81 One Bear Place #97021 Waco,TX 76798 (254) 710-8919 prelaw@baylor.edu Paul L. Foster Success Center Center for Academic Success and Engagement Why Baylor Apply Podcast Give General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Pre-Law Podcasts Ep. 1 - Pre-Advising 1 (required listening before advising) Ep. 2 - Pre-Advising 2 (required listening before advising) Ep. 3 - Personal Statements Ep. 4 - Clerking in the US Supreme Court Ep. 5 - Corporate law in NYC Ep. 6 - International Affairs & Public Policy Degrees Ep. 7 - The Law and Technology Ep. 8 - Baylor in Washington DC Ep.9 - Law & The FBI Ep. 10 - Addenda & Letters of Recommendation Ep.11 - A Senior Perspective Ep. 12 - Immigration Law Ep. 13 - Law School, The First Year Ep. 14 - Law School Interviews Ep. 15 - Thinking through the Bar Exam Ep. 16 - Family Law Ep. 17 - From Special Forces to Law School Ep. 18 - Exploring a diplomatic career Ep. 19 - Life with the Navy JAG Corps Ep. 20 - Criminal Law Ep. 21 - Pre-Law Student Organizations Ep. 22 - Where can a J.D. take you? An interview with Violet Sullivan Ep. 23 - In-House Counsel Ep. 24 - How to Network Panel Discussion Ep. 25 Diplomatic Security and Foreign Service Careers Is Law School For Me? Preparing for Law School Choosing Courses Minor in Legal Reasoning and Analysis Pre-Law Reading List Special Academic Opportunities Pre Law Timeline Selecting Law Schools Applying to Law School Make a Gift