<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Oded Navon MS/MBA 2022 Video Video Home Region Ramat Hasharon, Israel Undergrad Education Tel Aviv University, BSc, 2018 Previous Experience Government (Israel), Wix.com, Israel Defense force HBS Activities Tech Club, Coding, Analytics, & Machine Learning (CAML) Club “I want to use technology to shrink the gap between the haves and the have nots.” Why did you choose this path at this point in time? After spending most of my adult years in public service, in the Israeli military and government, I realized I wanted to able to apply my skills on a larger scale, serving a global public. I knew getting an MBA would give me innumerable tools for pivoting from the public to private sector, and getting a Harvard MBA in particular would catapult me toward making large-scale impact. Coming to HBS is like... ...thinking you've reached the top of Mount Everest, only to realize there's a higher peak ahead. HBS opens your mind to the endless possibilities out there and puts you on the path to achieve them. Being part of the HBS community is like... ...finding long-lost family members, discovering how much you have in common every day. The section experience makes you so close with people that you know that no matter what happens later on in life, they will have your back. As a kid, what did you want to be when you grew up? I wanted to be a doctor. However, in my early twenties, my dad became ill with cancer and passed away after a few years. Spending time with him in the hospital gave me immense respect for physicians, but it also made me realize that I wanted to specialize in something where I could have more control over the result and create things that would impact many people all at once. So, I dove into another passion of mine – computers – and went on to become a software engineer. What is your favorite childhood memory? My dad and I went on a ten-day trip to five theme parks in Europe when I was nine years old, just the two of us. It taught me that just like a roller-coaster, with the right people by my side, I can get through anything. Who is one person from your life that you admire the most today? I most admire my wife and partner in life, Amit. She’s the most capable and multi-faceted person I know. She somehow manages to stay on top of her career, our one-year-old baby girl, our household, and everything else in our lives. Living with her and seeing her accomplish so much each day (seemingly effortlessly) always gives me something to strive for. What’s the best thing about your home town? The High Holidays are a magical time in Israel. Specifically, on Yom Kippur, the day of atonement, the entire country, which is normally in a big hustle, comes to an absolute standstill for a day. You won’t find a car on the road – everyone is home or in prayer for a day of introspection. My hometown commemorates Yom Kippur in a way I’ve always loved, taking advantage of the fact that everyone is home to reconnect with neighbors. At sunset, everyone meets in the central intersection of our neighborhood to catch up – it’s always a warm and comforting experience. Topics Government Military Technology Home Region Ramat Hasharon, Israel Undergrad Education Tel Aviv University, BSc, 2018 Previous Experience Government (Israel), Wix.com, Israel Defense force HBS Activities Tech Club, Coding, Analytics, & Machine Learning (CAML) Club Topics Government Military Technology ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College