Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Out-of-state students Welcome to Washington! No matter the distance, we know supporting your Husky is a top priority. Whether you are just a short drive or several time zones away, UW Parent & Family Programs is here to help you stay connected and involved in your student’s college journey. One place to start: Our Parent & Family Guide. It’s full of information on everything from campus tutoring centers to student housing options to mental-health resources. Also don’t miss our Talk With Your Husky resource, where you’ll find tips and ideas for developing a communication plan and engaging in meaningful conversation. Seattle is a world-class city that offers its residents a unique mix of urban amenities and outdoor living. We’re excited to welcome your student and your family to our corner of the country! Campus contacts Husky Health & Well-Being Student Fiscal Services UW Academic Support Programs Housing & Food Services Support for every situation Adjusting to college life can be challenging — that’s why the UW offers a variety of resources to assist with everything from mental health to academics to money management. It’s normal for students to feel homesick or overwhelmed from time to time. You can help your Husky by knowing what resources are available and encouraging them to be proactive about seeking support. See our Academics and Health & Safety pages for more information. Common out-of-state student questions Common out-of-state student questions When is the best time to call or visit my student? Every schedule is different, and it’s up to you and your student to decide when and how frequently to have check-ins. For in-person visits, it may be helpful to consult the UW academic calendar so you can avoid busy times like finals week or midterms. What’s the best way to pay for tuition and fees? Student Fiscal Services is a one-stop shop for navigating the ins and outs of paying for college. You’ll also find tax forms, due dates and deadlines, and student loan information. Tuition can be paid through your student’s MyUW account. They must submit an online Information Release Authorization to give family members or others access to tuition billing and reminders. Is there a way to connect with other UW families in my area? Join our official first-year families facebook group. Reach out to our office and we can connect you with region and out-of-state groups. What are some must-see places to explore in Seattle? Many of the city’s top destinations are located on or near the UW campus. Learn more about attractions, lodging and dining across the city at Visit Seattle. Interested in outdoor recreation? UWild is a great way for your student to explore Washington’s renowned wilderness areas and public lands. What should my student know about safety? The UW has several programs and resources to help keep students safe, including nighttime escort services, a 24-7 safety hotline and an emergency alert system. Visit our Health & Safety page for more information. When I visit my student, where should I stay? There are many hotels within walking distance of the university, and the entirety of the downtown Seattle hotel scene is easily accessible to campus via Light Rail. Private short-term rentals are also available in adjacent neighborhoods. Learn more about hotel accommodations. What’s the weather really like in Seattle? Ranging from sun-drenched summers to artistically grey winters, precipitation is typically a light mist. In fact, Seattle is only the 24th rainiest city in the U.S. with an average annual rainfall of 38.6 inches. While many in the area won’t bother to carry an umbrella, a good rain jacket is a staple in the Puget Sound area, especially between the wetter months of October through May. The typical Northwest weather pattern is characterized by wonderfully warm (but not too hot or humid) summers, upper 70-80s on average, and moderate winters with low 40s on average. Where can I learn more about the layout of the campus? The UW is an expansive campus with uncountable beautiful places to explore. Find your way around all corners of the campus with UW Maps. What types of scholarships and grants are available for out of state students? Visit the Student Financial Aid webpages for information about all types of aid, including scholarships, grants and emergency relief funds. Counselors are also available for one-on-one appointments. Learn more about how our Financial Aid office helps our out of state students. What plans are contracted with Hall Health/UW Medicine? UW Medicine and Hall Health are contracted with many insurance plans, you can view the contracted insurance plans. The only way to know for sure if your plan is contracted is to call the customer service number on the back of your insurance card to complete the Know Your Benefits worksheet. What if our insurance does not cover Hall Health/UW Medicine? If your insurance does not contract with Hall Health Center and UW Medicine, but does work with other providers in Seattle, you can review the list. You can also check your insurance company’s website to search for additional contracted providers. Did you know? LiveWell is a holistic program that empowers UW students by giving them the skills and knowledge to make informed decisions about their health and well-being. LiveWell uses both the expertise of professional staff and passion of Peer Health Educators to provide evidenced-based health promotion, education and prevention services. Learn more on the LiveWell website. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA