Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Academics People Campus About News + Events Apply Now Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Specializations Student Work People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now Portfolio Submission Portfolio Requirements Art Design Production Programming Financial Information SMU Financial Aid Guildhall Preparation Art Design Production Programming Specializations Art Creation Level Design Production Programming Student Work Independent Projects Team Game Projects Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Admissions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Academics Specializations Student Work People People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us News + Events Apply Now About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now FAQ General FAQ about SMU Guildhall What sorts of undergraduate degrees prepare someone for the Guildhall? SMU Guildhall is the only graduate program in the country to offer all four pillars of game development: Art, Design, Production, and Programming. Each specialization requires a different type of educational background. Refer to our Guildhall Specialization guides for more details What is the difference between the Master’s Degree and Professional Certificate? Our certificate program mirrors our master's degree program, with the exception of the Master's Thesis, which is completed by our master's candidates during term six. How was your curriculum developed? Our program was created at the request of the industry, through collaboration with a number of studios in Texas, including Gearbox, id Software, Barking Lizard, Terminal Reality, the former Ensemble Studios, NC Soft, and Junction Point Studios. Our students have enjoyed great success because the industry drove the development of our curriculum. We maintain this collaborative process today to serve the needs of the video game industry at large. With input from publishers and studios across the state and nation, global studios, industry leaders, Guildhall alumni , and our Guildmasters, we continue to refine, enhance and develop our curriculum to meet the needs of a rapidly evolving industry. Learn more about our curriculum >> What kinds of games do you make at SMU Guildhall? We teach our students video game development skills that transcend genre. Students work in cross-disciplinary teams of artists, designers, producers, and programmers to develop one 2D game and two 3D games during their time at SMU Guildhall. Our students are diverse in their interests and preferences in games, and we encourage them to be exploratory and creative when considering game concepts and developing their original games. Learn more about our team games >> Do Guildhall students have games ready to market when they graduate? 100% of our Capstone games produced in the last year have been Greenlit on Steam, and many have won awards, proving that SMU Guildhall produces games that are market-ready and commercially viable. Some student teams do choose to continue the development and commercial release of their titles after graduation. Others choose to pursue other endeavors. Learn more about our team games >> Does SMU Guildhall help students find jobs? SMU Guildhall serves as a springboard into the industry. Students have access to many career development services during their time at SMU Guildhall, and even after graduation. Our Career Counselor offers students guidance in career planning, creating resumes and portfolios, professional and social networking, interview techniques, and more. Students also attend game industry conferences, participate in campus job fairs, and attend career workshops. Learn more about Guildhall Career Services >> What kind of success have your alumni enjoyed? What game companies hire SMU Guildhall graduates? Our 860+ alumni have gone on to a variety of successful careers. They have worked on top titles at more than 270 game studios around the world, designed apps for tech companies, created interactive technology for many fields, worked in animation, marketing and creative design, and more. Many alumni attain leadership positions within 4-7 years after graduating from our program. Learn more about alumni success >> Does SMU Guildhall have regular visits, guest speakers, or events with industry professionals? Not only is our faculty composed of industry veterans and leaders, we also work with industry professionals in many other ways. Industry presence is vast and frequent at the Guildhall, and you can find developers often serving as guest speakers in class and at events, helping to develop curriculum, participating in Career Fairs, and more. Learn about the many ways we partner with the industry >> Is the cost of a graduate education at SMU Guildhall worth it? Is financial aid available? A Guildhall education should be considered an investment. As a student here, you’re part of one of the leading graduate programs for video game development in the country. You'll receive top-notch preparation by a program unequaled in its ability to combine education with practical experience. That unique combination, along with a star-studded faculty, results in professional game builders who are ready to contribute powerfully to game development on their first day of work. You’re also part of a growing community of alumni, who are leaders in the video game industry. The level of success enjoyed by our alumni is due largely to the structure of our program, which transforms talent and passion into in-demand skills and experience via industry-driven curriculum, as well as courses taught by industry professionals, a studio production environment, and the robust portfolio of games each student accomplishes. When students successfully complete our master’s program, they graduate with a strong working knowledge of the gaming industry and unparalleled team project experience, which many studios consider equal to two years of industry work experience due to the commercial quality of the games we produce and the depth of our student work and research. Financial aid is available through a variety of avenues. The federal government through their website www.fafsa.ed.gov assists graduate students through the Stafford loan program and the Federal Direct GradPlus loan program. Private institutions such as banks, credit unions and graduate loan programs also offer additional assistance for tuition, living expenses and program supplies. Access more Financial Information >> What can I expect the surrounding community to be like when I move here? SMU Guildhall is on the main SMU campus in Dallas, Texas. Dallas is recognized as one of the birthplaces of the video game industry and is home to a vibrant gaming community including 40+ AAA and indie development studios. The Dallas area offers affordable housing, top restaurants, great shopping and entertainment just around the corner from our campus. Texas has an abundance of warm, sunny days and warm, friendly people. It is an affordable place to call home and offers many options for housing and entertainment. Learn more about our community and campus >> What is a typical day at SMU Guildhall like? Morning classes run from 9:30am-12:30pm. Lunch is 12:30-2pm. Afternoon classes run 2:00pm-5:00pm. Students typically work on "homework" for about 15 hours per week. It’s hard work, but it pays off! Our alumni say it’s absolutely worth it. Because our model mimics the style and pace of the industry, the work and time you put in here is excellent training for the “real world.” It’s not all work here though! We have a lot of fun too. Our Student Activities Committee plans regular social events, like Game Nights and Happy Hours, for you to unwind and enjoy. Learn more about what life at SMU Guildhall is like >> International Students FAQ Do you have many international students, or will I be one of very few? SMU Guildhall is a graduate program with a global reach. 23% of our incoming cohort is comprised of international students from China, India, Europe, and beyond. We are passionate about recruiting students with varying perspectives and experiences, and international students are a huge part of our success in that area. We realize that moving to a new country to study presents unique challenges, and we are here to help all students with that transition. What resources are available to international students? See our International Student Resources page for a comprehensive list of on-campus and off-campus resources. Do you offer full-funding for international students? SMU Guildhall is not structured to offer funding (full or partial) to any student, domestic or international. You must acquire an F-1 Visa for studying in the United States, which requires proof of financial responsibility for the first full year of study (approximately $67,500 for tuition and living expenses). The total cost of attendance for international students which includes the total tuition for two years, estimated living expenses, mandatory health insurance, and one time technology fee is approximately $121,214USD for the master’s degree or $113,014USD for the certification. You have many options for funding; the best course of action would be to contact your government and see if they fund study in another country. If they do not, loans from financial institutions in your country often will. Unfortunately, aid from the U.S. government is only available to U.S. citizens and resident aliens. If you hold dual citizenship in your country and the U.S., or if either of your parents are U.S. citizens, you may also qualify. If you are accepted to the program, SMU has a department that is dedicated to helping international students obtain a visa, explain travel to and from the U.S. and make a successful transition. Apply to SMU Guildhall SMU Guildhall Game Changers Shaped Here 3100 McFarlin Blvd., Suite 306 Dallas , Texas 75275 (214) 768-4278 © SMU Legal Disclosures Site Index Working at SMU Apply to SMU Guildhall x