Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Registrar Frequently Asked Questions *Accordion and tab elements may not be compatible with all versions of Internet Explorer web browsers. If you experience difficulty, please upgrade to the latest version of Chrome or Firefox. Course Registration and Registration Plans Registration When and where can I register? Registration opens each term based on the dates published in the Academic Calendar. Your specific registration Time Ticket (day/time registration opens) is based on earned hours plus the hours you are currently enrolled in. All registration is done in the iROAR student system. What should I do prior to registration? Schedule an appointment with your advisor. All continuing undergraduate students and former students returning are required to see an advisor. At the close of the advising session, your advisor will give you your registration PIN—registration PINs are required in order to access iROAR registration. Graduate students who wish to enroll in the upcoming fall or spring semester are not required to consult their advisors. Prepare for your meeting with your advisor by checking your Degree Works audit and making a list of classes you wish to take. If you have questions about your Degree Works audit, submit your questions or concerns via the online Degree Works Inquiry. Check for any holds on your account in iROAR > Student Records. Contact the office issuing the hold for resolution. Plan your classes in the iROAR registration planner. What is a registration PIN? Undergraduates must enter a PIN to access registration. Meet with your advisor as early as possible to plan your schedule and receive your registration PIN—no other person is authorized to issue your PIN. You will not be able to register in iROAR without your PIN. Prepare a list of alternate courses before you begin registering. Only undergraduate students are required to enter a PIN in order to register for classes. If you plan to enroll in off-campus undergraduate classes, call your advisor or major department in order to receive your PIN. You will be required to enter your PIN each time you access the iROAR registration page until a registration attempt has been made. Once a registration attempt has been made—even if the attempt is unsuccessful—you will no longer be required to enter your PIN. Why do I have to prove my citizenship and how do I do that? All new students must present proof of their legal presence in the state; it is the law in South Carolina. Additional legal presence details, including acceptable documents, can be found in the FAQ. Why do I get registration errors in iROAR? Errors pop up in iROAR if you do not meet the requirements or restrictions set for a particular course. See iROAR errors and required overrides in the Registration Checklist. How do I resolve registration errors? Most errors require an override. Override requests should be made to the Instructor or the Registration Coordinator for the course. How do I resolve a registration hold on my account? Holds on your account may prevent registration. Check for any registration holds in iROAR: Students ⟩ Student Records ⟩ View Holds. The "Processes Affected" column indicates whether registration is impacted. To resolve holds, you must contact the department that issued the hold. Go to the Registration Checklist ⟩ Holds to look up Contacts for Holds. What if I need to register for a course but it is closed? For information on Waitlisting or Requesting a Closed Course, please see Closed Courses. How many credit hours can I take each term? Allowable maximum credit hours are enforced in iROAR registration. Undergraduate Graduate Fall and Spring Credit Hour Limits Undergraduate students are initially limited to registration in 19 credit hours—16 for students on probation. The day before classes begin, credit hours are automatically increased to 21 for students in good standing. For information on credit increase exceptions and student classification, please refer to Credit Hours on the Registration Checklist. Summer Credit Hours Undergraduate students may register for a total of 19 credits during the summer session. Exceptions to these credit hour limits must be approved by the student's advisor—for more information please refer to Credit Hours on the Registration Checklist. Graduate Credit Hours Enrollment requirements for graduate students vary and may be found under the topic “Enrollment Limits” in the current GS Policies & Procedures Handbook. Graduate students may email the Graduate School to request the limit be increased. I'm a former student returning to Clemson. What should I do? Students who missed a major term (spring or fall) or withdrew during the term are considered former students. To be able to register for the upcoming semester, you must complete the Former Student Returning application Visit Former Students Returning for additional information as well as the form and form deadlines. When and how do I pay my tuition charges? Payment is due by the deadline published by Student Financial Services or you may incur a $150 late fee and schedule cancellation—you are responsible for rebuilding your schedule in iROAR. You are not guaranteed re-enrollment in any of your dropped classes. Billing and payment information is published by Student Financial Services. They can assist you with any questions or concerns. Registration Plans What is a Registration Plan? The registration plan allows students to create up to two planned schedules of classes prior to the start of registration. Creating a plan is no guarantee of gaining a seat in a class and does not mean a student is registered for a planned class. How do I make a plan? See Training Materials. Can my advisor see my plan? Yes. They can also approve your plan and/or create a plan for you. Can I register using my plan? Yes, you can also register using your advisor's plan. Why are courses showing in my plan that aren't being offered this term? The plan ahead tool pulls information from the course catalog, showing all courses and their catalog restrictions, regardless of whether they are being offered in a future term or not. Only the ‘Browse Courses' and ‘Registration’ features pull information from Banner and will show current information for a specific term. Degree Works ⟩ General Degree Works ⟩ Audit ⟩ What-if Audit General FAQ What is Degree Works? Degree Works is an online advising tool to help you and your advisor monitor your progress toward degree completion. The Degree Works audit matches your coursework (completed, currently enrolled, or registered for in the future) to your degree requirements in an easy-to-read worksheet that shows how the courses count toward degree requirements. Who can use Degree Works? Degree Works is available to all degree-seeking undergraduate students. Advisors, faculty, and selected staff also have access for the purpose of supporting your progress through your academic career. Can I register for classes in Degree Works? No, you may register online only through the iROAR portal. How current is my information in Degree Works? The information in Degree Works is refreshed each night. Any changes made today (e.g., grade changes, classes added/dropped, or program changes) will be seen in Degree Works tomorrow. Audit FAQ What is a Degree Works audit? A Degree Works audit is a curriculum evaluation categorized into different blocks of requirements, such as the general education, major, minor, concentration, and other requirements. Each block within the audit works as a checklist with boxes that are automatically checked when a requirement is met. What if the information in Degree Works is not up to date? There could be various reasons why information in Degree Works is not up to date. One is that Degree Works may not have been refreshed since a change was made to a student record. Information is refreshed overnight. Second, there could be pending requests that have not yet been processed (course substitution, change of program, etc.) If you have recently submitted an academic request and the change is not reflected in Degree Works, check with the Enrolled Student Services office. Are my grades visible in Degree Works? Yes. Once grades have been posted at the end of the term, they are viewable in Degree Works. Can I see a list of all the classes I've taken? Yes. On the Audits tab, click on the Class History link at the top for a list of courses taken at Clemson as well as transfer and advanced placement courses. Can I change my major/minor/concentration through Degree Works? No. You should submit a Request to Change Academic Program in iROAR. Access additional information on Changing Academic Program or Curriculum Year. Does Degree Works include my AP credit and transfer work? Once AP scores are received from the College Board and credit is granted, they are posted to your iROAR record and will appear on the audit. How do I know what classes I need to take? Your audit will outline courses needed to meet degree, major, minor, and/or concentration requirements within each block. You can also see a consolidated list of courses not yet completed by selecting Registration Checklist from the Worksheet menu. You may then use this information to discuss your plan with your Academic Advisor. I think my audit is incorrect. What should I do? Please ask your academic advisor for assistance. The first step is to clarify what information you believe is wrong. My major is wrong on my audit. If you have not officially changed your major, submit a Request to Change Academic Program in iROAR. (See additional information on Changing Academic Program or Curriculum Year.) The requirements for my major are wrong. Note the Catalog Year that appears on the major requirements block of the audit. According to your official academic record, this is the catalog that you are following to complete your major requirements. If you believe you should be using older or newer curriculum requirements, contact your Academic Advisor. My transfer courses do not appear in the right place. If you are concerned about a transfer course that should be applying in the audit, contact Enrolled Student Services. My classes are not applying in the right place. Degree Works uses a “best fit” approach to meet requirements, so classes may apply to different sections as you take more courses. Try using the Look Ahead feature to add courses that you plan to take in the future. If the course is not reapplied, or if you have further questions, please contact your academic advisor or the Degree Works office. My advisor or department chair gave me permission to substitute a course, but it's not showing on my audit. Check with your advisor to be sure the proper paperwork has been completed and submitted to Enrolled Student Services. Once substitutions are entered by ESS and the audit has been refreshed, the application of the substitution should be shown on the audit. My minor or concentration is missing from my audit. If you have not officially declared your minor or concentration, contact your academic advisor and submit a Request to Change Academic Program in iROAR. (See Additional information on Changing Academic Program or Curriculum Year.) If you have already officially declared your minor, the Office of Enrolled Student Services may still be processing your records. When should a student/advisor review a degree audit? Before registering for an upcoming semester After you register to ensure that the courses apply to your program requirements After grades are posted for each semester Any time changes are made to your schedule or major A degree audit can be reviewed at any time; however, it is recommended to do so at least four times a semester. How is my degree audit different from my transcript? Your degree audit is a tool to provide you with academic information related to your degree progress. It displays courses required and completed in your degree program. Your transcript is your official university academic record and provides a chronological list of courses completed and other academic information. I've seen the @ symbol in several places on my audit. What does this mean? This is a wild card in Degree Works. For example, if the @ sign is followed by course numbers (@1000:4999), it means that you may take a course in any subject area within the specified course number range. In this case, any 1000-4000-level course in any subject area is allowed. Who should I contact if I still have questions or disagree with the audit? Q: Who should I contact if I still have questions or disagree with the audit? First, contact your academic advisor. If questions still remain, contact the Degree Works office. When changes are made on a course, what curriculum years are these changes applied to in Degree Works? Course and curriculum maintenance, such as changes in rubric or course number, are applied to the past five curriculum years in addition to the current year. What-if Audit FAQ I am thinking of changing my major. How can I see what would be required if I made this change? You can use the "What-If" option to view hypothetical major and/or minor changes based on current and projected course work. Be sure to select a Degree, Catalog term and Major along with any corresponding Minors or Concentrations. What-If audits do not guarantee that you will be able to major in the area you select. If you decide you'd like to change your major, contact the academic advisor of the new major for information and instructions. Can my advisor see my What-If audit? Since What-If audits are not ‘saved’ in Degree Works, your advisor can only see outcomes if the two of you work through a What-If procedure together. You can, however, print a copy to show your advisor at your next meeting. If you have questions not answered here, please contact your Academic Advisor. Academic Forgiveness What is Academic Forgiveness? The Academic Forgiveness Policy, or AFP, (revised 2019) allows a student with first term enrollment of fall 2013 through spring 2019 to eliminate from the GPA calculation up to three courses in which a D or F was earned. Students with first term enrollment of summer 2019 or later can eliminate a maximum of two courses. Courses for which forgiveness has been applied will remain on the transcript with a notation that the credit and grade have been excluded from the earned hours and the GPA. Note that graduate schools and professional programs may choose to recalculate GPAs to include the original D or F grade for their selection processes. The AFP replaces the previous Academic Redemption Policy. How does it work? An undergraduate student with first term enrollment of fall 2013 through spring 2019 may delete from the GPA calculation up to three courses in which a D or F was earned. Students with first term enrollment of summer 2019 or later can delete a maximum of two courses. In consultation with the advisor, a student may choose when or if to use academic forgiveness for an eligible course. Discussion with the advisor should include consideration of credit hour requirements to retain scholarships and loans or to meet satisfactory progress requirements for various programs. To utilize the AFP, the student should complete a request located in iROAR 〉 Student Self-Service 〉 Student Records 〉 Request Academic Forgiveness. Courses for which forgiveness has been applied will remain on the transcript with a notation that the credit and grade have been excluded from the earned hours and the GPA. Are there courses that don't qualify for AFP? Yes. Only courses taken at Clemson University may be forgiven. Course substitutions are not permitted. Courses taken prior to Fall 2003 may not be considered for academic forgiveness. Students may not use AFP after they have graduated. The AFP may not be applied to a course taken on a Pass-No Pass basis or to any course in which the student was previously found in violation of the academic integrity policy. Can I transfer an equivalent course to Clemson that was previously forgiven? No. You may not receive transfer credit for the same course that you received Academic Forgiveness. If you wish to transfer a course to fulfill the curricular requirement, you must choose a different course than the one for which you received Academic Forgiveness. Can I receive exemption credit or credit by exam for a course previously forgiven? No. When did the AFP go into effect? The AFP went into effect in fall 2013. It applies to courses taken by undergraduate students beginning in the fall semester of 2003. Courses taken prior to fall semester 2003 may not be forgiven. Do I have to retake the course in which I made a D or F the next term for AF? No. D or F grades may be forgiven regardless of whether the course is repeated. If the course is not required for your degree, you may choose to use forgiveness and choose not to repeat that particular course. The D or F grade in a required course may be eliminated before the course is repeated; however, the required course must be repeated satisfactorily at Clemson University before graduation. You may retake the course in any future term if you have sufficient Forgiveness courses remaining. You may not receive transfer credit for the same course that you received Academic Forgiveness. If you wish to transfer a course to fulfill the curricular requirement, you must choose a different course than the one for which you received Academic Forgiveness. What happens when I retake a course that does not qualify for the AFP? The grade for the initial course and the grade for the retaken course are both used in calculating your GPA; however, credits for the course will be counted only once toward the number of hours required for graduation. Can I choose which course grades to eliminate under the AFP? Yes. If you have sufficient forgiveness courses remaining, you may choose to use forgiveness at any time after a grade of D or F is earned. You will discuss the use of forgiveness with your advisor who will initiate the forgiveness grade change. Discussion with your advisor should include consideration of credit hour requirements to retain scholarships and loans or to meet satisfactory progress requirements for various programs. If you do not have sufficient Forgiveness courses remaining, the AFP will not apply. Does the AFP apply to courses taken at other schools? No. The AFP only applies to work taken at Clemson. Does the AFP apply to Pass/No Pass courses? No. Pass/No Pass courses are not eligible for forgiveness. How will a forgiven course appear on my transcript? All courses for which a grade is awarded at Clemson University will remain on the transcript. Courses for which forgiveness has been applied will remain on the transcript with a notation that the credit and grade have been excluded from the earned hours and the GPA. Can a course be forgiven in my last semester while I am a candidate for graduation? Yes, Academic Forgiveness Forms must be submitted to Enrolled Student Services for approval no later than the Wednesday prior to graduation. If I re-enroll after graduating from Clemson, can I be forgiven for earlier courses? No. The Academic Forgiveness Policy does not apply to a student who has graduated. If a course is repeated after graduation, both grades will be calculated in the GPA. What if I use all of my Academic Forgiveness courses and change my mind later about which courses I want to use them for? Once Academic Forgiveness has been applied, the grade and credit cannot be restored. Can I use the AFP for a course that I have already completed at Clemson and previously received as transfer credit? No. If you have repeated a course at Clemson that you already earned as transfer credit you may not forgive the Clemson course (this includes high school dual enrollment credit). Can I use AFP for a course that I have received AP or IB credit for and repeated the same course at Clemson? Yes. Both AP and IB credit are eligible for Academic Forgiveness and may be repeated at Clemson. How many times may I forgive a particular course? Students with a first term enrollment beginning summer 2019 may apply academic forgiveness to a particular course one time. How does academic forgiveness affect my financial aid? Using academic forgiveness may cause a student to lose certain financial aid or scholarship awards. Students are encouraged to email Financial Aid or visit the office at G-01 Sikes Hall prior to using academic forgiveness if they have grants or scholarships. The Academic Forgiveness Policy is published in the Undergraduate Catalog. Preferred Name What is a preferred name? A name by which you choose to identify yourself within the University community that differs from your official/legal name. Where will my preferred name show up? Currently, preferred name will be displayed on: my.clemson Directory (phonebook) Canvas iROAR Class rolls in Data Warehouse and iROAR Report Generator Degree Works Tiger One Card How quickly will my preferred name appear in the system? The time is dependent upon the current load on the system but it usually takes place within a few minutes. How do I know that my preferred name has been updated? Login to Canvas and your preferred name will appear in the top right corner. How do I enter a preferred name? Go to my.clemson Click your picture in the upper right corner Choose My Profile Choose Name Click Manage Preferred Name What is acceptable and unacceptable when entering a preferred name? The preferred name can be 32 characters or less and is limited to alpha characters (A-Z and a-z), a space, or hyphen (-). Unacceptable for preferred name: Symbols, numbers, unusual capitalization, repeating characters or punctuation Characters from multiple languages Titles of any kind, ex. professional or religious Offensive or suggestive word of any kind Pretending to be anything or anyone else Entering an unacceptable preferred name will generate an error message. Once a preferred name is entered, how do you locate that person in the online phonebook? Students with a preferred name must be looked up in the directory using the preferred name. Who can see my preferred name? Faculty and selected staff members have access to Canvas, iROAR and class roll reports which will display the preferred name. It will also display in the online directory. Do you have to enter a preferred name? No. Entering a preferred name is entirely optional. Who can change a preferred name? Once a person has authenticated with their Novell userid and password in my.clemson, they can change their own preferred name. Can I change my TigerOne card to reflect my preferred name? Yes. See TigerOne for more information. What is the difference in a legal name change and a preferred name? A preferred name is a name by which you identify yourself within the university community. A legal name is the official name of record and will remain unchanged unless legal documentation is provided to justify altering the original name on the student's official record. A student's legal name will be used on all external systems including notifications sent to hometown newspapers, official transcripts, enrollment verifications, Clemson diplomas, and other external notifications that may be required. See more about a Legal Name Change. Prerequisites What is a prerequisite? A prerequisite is either a course a student must successfully complete before registering for another course (hereafter referred to as "the next course"); or a test score (such as the Clemson Math Placement Test). What is the difference between a prerequisite and a restriction? A restriction is a condition placed on a course section that controls who can register for the course. Restrictions may include field of study (major, minor, concentration); class (freshman, sophomore, etc.); level (graduate or undergraduate); degree (MS, BA, BS, PHD); program code (BS-PSYC-C); or student attribute (honors). Any restrictions approved by the University Curriculum Committee(s) are published in the catalog and apply to all sections, though by and large, each academic department is allowed to place additional restrictions they think necessary. All prerequisites must be approved by the University Curriculum Committees, published in the catalog, and must apply to every section of the course. Both prerequisites and restrictions control whether a student can register for a particular course. Are exceptions ever made if a student does not meet a prerequisite or restriction? Yes, exceptions to prerequisite courses are made by providing the PREREQ override in iROAR. Only the instructor of record for the course or the departmental registration coordinator may provide this override. Exceptions to restrictions are made by providing the appropriate override code. For a list of all override codes and instructions, please see Overrides. What is the difference between a Prerequisite and a Corequisite? Prerequisite courses must be taken prior to the next course (ENGL 4850 has a prereq of ENGL 3100). Students must complete ENGL 3100 first. Corequisite courses MUST be taken during the same term (CE 4110 and CE 4111 are corequisite courses and must be taken at the same time; a student cannot register for one without the other). What does "prerequisite or concurrent enrollment" mean? "Prereq or concurrent enrollment" means a student may take the prerequisite course prior to or during the same term as the next course (CE 2550 has a prereq or concurrent enrollment of ENGR 2100). Students may take ENGR 2100 before CE 2550 or take both courses during the same term. Where can I find course prerequisites? Faculty/Staff Go to iROAR > Faculty Self-Service > Course Catalog. Select the appropriate term and course. Click course title to view prerequisites. Students Go to iROAR > Student Self-Service > Registration > Course Catalog. Select the appropriate term and course. Click course title to view prerequisites. Does it matter which type of override is provided? Yes. You must give the override that matches the error. For example, if a student gets an error message regarding a prerequisite, you must give the PREREQ override. If you are contacted by a student who cannot register due to a registration error message, ask them exactly what the message says and then find the matching override. How long does it take to provide an override? Giving an override takes about 15 seconds for each student. Do overrides require the specific section (CRN) of a course? No, you can give an override for any section of the course by entering the subject and course number but NOT the specific CRN. This will allow the student to register for any section of the course. If I give a prerequisite override for a course, does that mean I am overriding ALL prereqs for that course? Yes. It is not possible to give an override for individual prerequisites. If I remove a prereq override from a student once I've given it, will the system still stop the student from registering? Yes, but if he/she has already registered, the system will not drop them; nor will the system alert the student that the override has been revoked. Will iROAR allow a student to register in a future term if they are currently enrolled in the prereq course? Yes, iROAR assumes the student will pass the prerequisite course in which they are currently enrolled. If a student is registered for the prerequisite in a term which has not yet begun, will iROAR allow a student to register for the next course in a later term? Yes, iROAR assumes the student will pass the prerequisite course in an upcoming term (if the current term is spring, and a student is registered for a prerequisite course during the summer, he/she will be allowed to register for the next course in the fall term). If a student fails a prerequisite course once they have already registered for the next course, will the student be dropped from the next course or will the system alert the student or the department in some way? No. If a student fails a prereq course once they have already registered for the next course, will the student's name appear on the Failed Prerequisite Report? Yes, but only after grades have rolled to academic history at the end of the term. The student will not, however, be dropped from the next class if he fails the prereq. If I give a student a prerequisite override and they register for the next course and then end up failing the prereq course, will they show on the Failed Prerequisite Report? No. What happens when a student is registered in a prereq course in a shortened part of term? Clemson has three major terms in which courses are taught (fall, spring, and summer). Within those primary terms, there are six shortened terms (two half terms and four mini terms), which are also known as Parts of Term. iROAR checks for prerequisites based on the three major terms (fall, spring, and summer) only. If a student attempts to register for both a prerequisite course and the next course in the same major TERM (summer 2018)--even if the courses are in consecutive PARTS OF TERM (first summer and second summer--the system will not allow registration in the second course. In this case, a prerequisite override will be necessary for the student to register for both courses. Do not advise the student to wait until the first part of term is over and then register as this could negatively impact their financial aid or other financial status. If a student wants to take a prerequisite course at another institution, what should I do? The student can be given a prerequisite override. Some academic departments do not allow overrides in this situation and require the student to confirm completion of the course by presenting a transcript. Contact your department's Registration Coordinator for the appropriate action. How can a department change a course prerequisite(s)? Contact your Department Curriculum Committee Chair to begin the approval process. If I think there is a mistake with a prerequisite, who should I contact? Email Registration Services. Legal Presence What is Legal Presence? South Carolina Illegal Immigration Reform Act South Carolina state law requires all state institutions of higher education to verify legal presence in the United States. All students will be asked to provide documentation to confirm their current legal presence. To ensure that a student may enroll and attend classes, they must provide documentation as described below. Documentation must be uploaded electronically through the Legal Presence Documentation Portal. What documents will be accepted as proof of U.S. citizenship? SC driver's license if you were born after January 1, 1987, and SC driver's license was issued after January 1, 2002 U.S. Passport U.S. or U.S. Territory Birth Certificate Certificate of Naturalization U.S. Government Issued Consular Report of Birth Abroad Certificate of Citizenship Social Security Approval via Federal Application for Student Financial Aid (FAFSA) Permanent Residents and International Students will be documented by International Services, 108 Long Hall. I'm a U.S. Citizen. Did I receive this by mistake? No, this law applies to all students (US citizens, permanent residents, and international visitors). It applies to all institutions in South Carolina. Does every student need to have their Legal Presence cleared? Yes. Unless the student is enrolled in an online only program and is participating from a country other than the U.S., they must clear legal presence. Clemson already has my Social Security number. Is that good enough? No. Please upload one of the approved documents listed above through the Legal Presence Documentation Portal. Can I fax the document? No. Please see answer above. I have never received financial aid. Do I still have to comply? Yes. Compliance is not related to receipt of financial aid, but submitting the FAFSA is one method for citizenship to be confirmed by the Social Security Administration. I don't want to apply for financial aid. Do I still have to file a FAFSA? No. The FAFSA is one method for citizenship to be confirmed, but any of the other documents listed in above—also included in your original email—are acceptable. Can I use my Driver's License if it is not from South Carolina? No. At this time, we can only use a South Carolina Driver's License if you were born after January 1, 1987 and the license was issued after January 1, 2002. I am a permanent resident or international visitor. What documents do I need to bring? None. Unless you are contacted by International Services, you will be cleared through the Department of Homeland Security. I am taking all coursework online and will not be in South Carolina before I need to register for the subsequent term. What can I do? Electronically upload one of the approved documents above through the Legal Presence Documentation Portal. I have recently graduated from Clemson. Do I need to comply? If you are no longer enrolled, you will not need to comply now. But, if you return to Clemson at a later date, you need to provide verification. What is Clemson's policy for complying with this law? To view the text of the law and the Clemson Board of Trustee's process for compliance, please see "Illegal Immigration Reform Act Process" in the Admission section of the current Undergraduate Catalog. How can I learn more about this law or express concerns regarding this requirement? To view the text of the law (SC Code of Law Section 59-101-430), or to contact members of the SC General Assembly, please see sc.gov. Transcripts What is an official transcript? An Official Transcript is the official record of a student's work, showing courses taken and grades achieved. It is a complete copy of the student’s academic record at the time it is issued, including undergraduate and/or graduate coursework while enrolled at Clemson University. Partial transcripts are not provided. How do I request an official transcript? Information for requesting an official transcript and delivery options can be found on Transcripts. How do I save my unofficial transcript from iROAR to PDF? PC users: Click “print” on your browser menu Change your printer destination to “save as PDF” MAC users: Open the document you want to save as a PDF Choose File > Print Click the PDF pop-up menu, then choose Save as PDF Choose a name and location for the PDF file. Enter the information you want in the Title, Author, Subject, and Keywords fields. What is an electronic transcript? An electronic transcript (e-transcript) is an official certified PDF document securely delivered electronically to the email address of the designated recipient. However, it will become unofficial if forwarded from your personal email The link for the electronic transcript is only valid for 30 days, if the transcript is downloaded and saved it can be accessed indefinitely Can I attach a required form to a transcript? You may include any necessary documents that should be attached to your official transcript, including scholarship applications or licensure request forms (e.g., LSAT, AMCAS). A limit of two pages may accompany your request. Personal items such as certificates, diploma copies, resumes, cover letters, notes, etc., are not allowed to accompany transcripts. I have a hold on my record. Can I still request an official transcript? Yes. However, the transcript cannot be released if you have a hold on your record. When the Office of Enrolled Student Services receives your order, you will be notified via email and provided with information about the hold. Once the issue is resolved, the transcript request will be processed and released. Requests for official transcripts are not processed for students with outstanding obligations to the University, financial or otherwise. If I request "Hold for Grades" on my transcript order, what will happen? The requested transcript will not be issued until the end of the current semester. Please check the Academic Calendar for anticipated dates. If I request "Hold for Degree" on my transcript order, what will happen? The requested transcript will not be issued until after the next scheduled graduation. Please check the Academic Calendar for anticipated dates. Can I have my transcript notarized? Notary Services may be requested for Clemson University Transcripts but must be requested in person or by mail. Transcripts requested through the National Student Clearinghouse will not be notarized. A notary fee of $10.00 per copy, in addition to the $12.00 per copy transcript fee, must accompany the Transcript Request Form (PDF) I have requested my transcript to be picked up; can someone else pick it up for me? Yes. The transcript will still be issued to the student. Written permission with the student’s signature stating who will be picking up the transcript is required. The person picking up the transcript needs to bring their photo ID and the written and signed letter from the student. Academic Probation and Renewal Where can I find out about academic probation? Undergraduate Academic Services (101 Vickery Hall) provides assistance to students on academic probation. All questions concerning academic probation should be directed to Undergraduate Studies at 864-656-3022. Also see Academic Forgiveness. Who handles academic renewal? All questions concerning academic renewal should be directed to Undergraduate Studies, 101 Vickery Hall or 864-656-3022. Refunds and Residency How do I receive a refund? The amount of refund is based on the course or schedule drop date. Refunds are distributed through direct deposit or mailed to your home address. Please see Refund Schedule for Academic Fees. Questions should be directed to Student Financial Services at 864-656-5592. Where do I get in-state residency information? In-state residency applications are located in G-01 Sikes Hall. Please see Residency Classification. Faculty and Staff ⟩ Access ⟩ Entering Grades ⟩ Advising and Registration Plan ⟩ Registration and Related Topics ⟩ Preferred Name on Class Rolls Access How do I get iROAR access if I am new faculty? If you have already received your Clemson username and password, complete the Access Request Form. How do I get iROAR access if I am new staff? You can find step-by-step instructions on the Records and Registration webpage, Access for Staff. Grades Where do I enter grades? In iROAR > Faculty Self-Service > Final Grades When do I enter grades? The Registration Services Office communicates the deadlines for grade entry every term. Please check the Academic Calendar for deadlines and be on the look out for emails. What is the difference between candidate and non-candidate grades? Grades for graduation candidates are due before other students' grades; however, if you decide to enter them at the same time, be aware that all grades will be rolled to history when candidate grades are rolled. Once grades have rolled to history, a Grade Correction is required to make any grade changes. What if I missed the deadline? You must submit a Grade Correction for every student. The Grade Correction form is available in iROAR in the Faculty Services tab. See more on Grades and Grade Corrections. Advising and Registration Plans What should advisors know about advising students? All continuing undergraduate students need to see an advisor for schedule planning and to get their Registration PIN. Former Students Returning are advised in the Academic Success Center. Graduate students are not required to consult an advisor. Each department assigns students to their advisors. Advisors can see their advisee list in iROAR Faculty Self-Service 〉 Advising Student Profile and then "View my Advisee Listing." At the close of the advising session, advisors give students their Registration PIN. This PIN is required for all continuing undergraduates to access iROAR registration. Other administrative departments are not authorized to provide PIN numbers to students. See PINs on the Student Information Menu: Display Students' Advising PINs What is a registration plan? This allows students to create a planned schedule of classes prior to the start of registration. Creating a plan is no guarantee of gaining a seat in a class and does not mean the student is registered for planned classes. Can I create a plan for a student without specific course sections? Yes. If the student chooses to use this plan to add their classes, they will need to search for a specific section in that course. Can a student register using my plan? Yes, you can approve your plan or the student's plan. Can I see plans a student has made? Yes, you can see your advisee's plans and approve them. How many plans can I make? Two. The student can also make two plans. If I choose to take classes, how do I register myself? Log out of your Faculty of Staff persona and log back in as a Student. Why am I being logged in as a student when making a registration plan for my advisees? If you have dual personas, such as student and advisor, and you want to make a plan for your advisees, you must be logged in as an advisor. You must also stay on the same page while you create an advisee plan, as opening this feature in a new window will log you in as a student. Registration How do I know when registration begins for the next semester? Several weeks before registration opens, you will receive an email from the Registrar's Office about the timeline, reminders, and updates about registration. What are time tickets? Time Tickets are the specific times when students may begin registering in iROAR. Registration entry times are based on earned hours plus the hours the student is currently enrolled in. Individual Time Tickets are provided in iROAR. Anyone can view Time Tickets on the Records and Registration website. What is an override? As there are prerequisites and other departmental restrictions on sections, an override is sometimes necessary to allow a student to enroll. Instructors and Registration Coordinators can provide overrides for their courses. See more on providing Overrides. What should I do if I want to add a student to my class after the last day to add? Instructors and Registration Coordinators have access to the Registration Correction Form. Registration Correction Forms should not be used to add from, or circumvent, the waitlist. Additionally, Registration Correction Forms should not be used to add students when an override can be provided. See Faculty and Staff Forms. Preferred Names on Class Rolls Which class rolls reflect students' preferred names? Faculty and staff are asked to utilize ONLY the Class Rolls available in the systems listed below for purposes of checking attendance/calling roll in classes with the student's preferred name. Canvas iROAR Class Rolls via iROAR Report Generator Login using your University credentials ⟩ iROAR Reports ⟩ Your Class Rolls Class Rolls via Business Objects Need help? Email dwhhelp-l@clemson.edu for assistance. Full Time vs Part Time Checklist 〉 Financial Aid 〉 Student Financial Services 〉 Academic Eligibility 〉 Fike Recreation Center 〉 Housing and Dining 〉 Athletic Tickets Financial Aid How does full time vs part time affect Financial Aid? Dropping from full time to part time affects most financial aid. If students are considering dropping below full time, we recommend that they review the Terms & Conditions and messages in iROAR associated with each type of aid. In addition to impacting financial aid in the current semester, dropping below full time may cause students to lose eligibility for the next year. Renewability requirements for each award are listed in iROAR. What links to the Financial Aid website would be helpful to students? www.clemson.edu/financial-aid/index.html Contact for further information: Send an email to Financial Aid. Students can also find the chat feature and phone hours on the Financial Aid website Student Financial Services How does full time vs part time affect semester billing and refunds? Students should consider if dropping classes is the best course of action when taking into account the possible financial ramifications. Though their transcript may not be affected (depending on when they drop), our refund dates are different than the last date to withdraw/drop. Students should consider the effects of dropping on their financial aid and bill. Depending on when they drop, the student’s financial aid could be reduced/removed but they may have dropped after the last date to not be charged. This would mean that any resulting balance is their responsibility. The student will not be able to return for future semesters or have access to grades/transcripts until the balance is paid in full. What links to the Student Financial Services website would be helpful to students? Students need to visit this link BEFORE they drop a course to see if/what they will be charged: www.clemson.edu/finance/student-financials/adjustments They will need to note that depending on when they drop, they may be charged a percentage of the dropped courses, as well as 100% of the tuition and fees for the courses for which they will remain. Contact for further information: Send an email to Student Bill Questions Academic Eligibility How does full time vs part time impact students' academic eligibility? Many of the ways for a student to maintain continued enrollment involved either credit hours earned or a minimum GPA in at least 12 graded credit hours in a semester. Students are encouraged to consult with Undergraduate Studies to ensure dropping or withdrawing from credit hours will not have a negative impact on their continued enrollment. Send questions to UGSeligibility@clemson.edu. What links would be helpful to students? Students need to visit this link BEFORE they drop a course to see potential ramifications to continuing enrollment: www.clemson.edu/academics/eligibility/. Contact for further information: Email Undergraduate Student Eligibility, or call 864-656-3022 Fike Recreation Center How does full time vs part time affect Fike privileges? During the Fall and Spring terms, the Campus Recreation fee will automatically be added to the University bill for students taking 6 or more hours on Clemson’s main campus. During the Long Summer, First Summer, or Second Summer, the Campus Recreation fee will automatically be added to the University bill for students taking 3 or more hours on Clemson’s main campus. However, please note that the Campus Recreation fee will NOT automatically be added to the University bill for online classes, courses associated with a co-op, or the Summer Mini (A, B, C, and D) term sessions. During the Fall and Spring terms, students who are NOT taking 6 or more hours on Clemson’s main campus can choose to add the Campus Recreation fee to their university bill. During the Long Summer, First Summer, or Second Summer students who are NOT taking 3 or more hours on Clemson’s main campus can also choose to add the Campus Recreation fee to their university bill. To add the Campus Recreation fee to your bill you will log in to iRoar, select the Student Billing tab and then click on the Optional Fees button. From there you will add the Optional Campus Rec Fee to your bill. This fee can only be added from the time your bill is generated for the term until 4:30 p.m. on the first day of class for the semester. After the first day of class for the semester, students can purchase a membership in person at Fike Recreation Center, or online at www.clemsoncampusrec.com. The Campus Recreation fee allows students access to Fike Recreation Center, Douthit Hills Fitness Center, and the Andy Quattlebaum Outdoor Education Center. What links to the Campus Recreation website would be helpful to students? General website: www.clemson.edu/campus-life/campus-recreation/ Online member portal: www.clemsoncampusrec.com (group fit registration, CPR class registration, IMleagues portal, etc.) Contact for further information: Email Victoria Roberts — Associate Director, Member Services & Aquatics Housing and Dining How does full time vs part time affect Clemson Housing and Dining? A student must be enrolled in at least 1 credit hour for the current semester to be eligible for Housing and Dining. As long as the student is enrolled in 1 credit hour, their Housing and Dining will not be affected for the current or future term. If a student chooses to withdraw from ALL classes: Once a student withdraws from all of their classes for the current semester, they must move out of Housing within 48 hours of withdrawal and their meal plan is deactivated effective the date of notice of withdrawal from the University. If the student has Housing for the next semester within the same academic year, the Housing for the next semester is also cancelled based on the withdrawal. What links to the Housing and Dining website would be helpful to students? Housing Contract/Rules and Regulations: housing.clemson.edu/housing/assignments Clemson Dining: clemson.campusdish.com/TermsAndConditions Meal Plan Options: clemson.campusdish.com/MealPlans/ Meal Plan 101: clemson.campusdish.com/MealPlans/MealPlans101 Contact for further information: Email Clemson Home, or call 864-656-2295 Email Clemson Dining, or call 864-656-2166 Athletic Tickets What should students know about Athletic Tickets? Clemson remains one of the only schools in the nation to provide free admission options to students for all 19 of its varsity sport offerings. Students access games via the All-In Student Rewards app, and can earn prizes for attending events. Admission to the following sports is free and open to students: Men's and Women's Soccer, Men's and Women's Tennis, Men's and Women's Golf, Rowing, Volleyball, Women's Basketball, Men's and Women's Track & Field and Cross Country. Students may have the ability to reserve or claim tickets in: Football, Men's Basketball, Baseball and Softball To be eligible for Football Student Tickets: Clemson students must be an enrolled full-time student (12+ hours undergraduate; 9+ hours graduate). Students enrolled in co-op/internship courses are not considered full time students. In order for these students to become eligible for ticketing, they must pay the $30 Co-Op Activity Fee. Students can pay this University fee at iroar.clemson.edu. Students should also consider joining the IPTAY Collegiate Club, which includes benefits like priority seating at home events. Please note that the Athletic Ticket Office reserves the right to redistribute any ticket(s) acquired by students who have not satisfied their tuition fees and have a hold placed on their account by Financial Services. Please see clemsontigers.com/tickets (then click on "Student Tickets" link or scroll down to "Student Tickets section) FERPA What is FERPA? FERPA stands for the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. It is also referred to as the Buckley Amendment. FERPA is a federal law (20 U.S.C. section 1232g) that was passed by Congress in 1974 to protect the privacy of student education records. It also provides rights to access or amend those records. Please see additional information on FERPA. Home Academic Calendars Academic Catalogs Graduation VA Educational Benefits Students Faculty and Staff Reg Coordinators Forms FAQ Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram