Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Home Learn More About Los Angeles’ Top-Ranked University | UCLA Leadership Leadership To serve a university as far-reaching and dynamic as UCLA we have assembled a passionate team of leaders. They ensure UCLA continues to positively impact Los Angeles, the nation and the world. Below you’ll find a list of top leadership, as well as links to administrative policies and organization information. Chancellor and Executive Vice Chancellor/Provost Gene Block Chancellor Michael S. Levine Interim Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost Office of the Chancellor Yolanda J. Gorman Senior Advisor to the Chancellor and Chief of Staff Emily Rose Assistant Provost and Chief of Staff to the Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost Vice Chancellors Michael J. Beck Administrative Vice Chancellor Anna Spain Bradley Vice Chancellor, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Rhea Turteltaub Vice Chancellor, External Affairs Allison Baird-James Interim Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer John Mazziotta Vice Chancellor, Health Sciences Louise C. Nelson Vice Chancellor, Legal Affairs Roger Wakimoto Vice Chancellor, Research Mary Osako Vice Chancellor, Strategic Communications Monroe Gorden Jr. Vice Chancellor, Student Affairs Vice Provosts Youlonda Copeland-Morgan Vice Provost, Enrollment Management Jim Davis Vice Provost, Information Technology David K. Yoo Vice Provost, Institute of American Cultures C. Cindy Fan Vice Provost, International Studies and Global Engagement Kathleen Komar Interim Vice Provost Deans of the College David Schaberg Senior Dean and Dean, Division of Humanities Tracy L. Johnson Dean, Division of Life Sciences Miguel A. García-Garibay Dean, Division of Physical Sciences Darnell M. Hunt Dean, Division of Social Sciences Adriana Galván Dean of Undergraduate Education Deans and University Librarian Brett Steele Dean, School of the Arts and Architecture Paul H. Krebsbach Dean, School of Dentistry Christina Christie Dean, School of Education & Information Studies Jayathi Y. Murthy Dean, Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science Jennifer L. Mnookin Dean, School of Law Antonio E. Bernardo Dean, Anderson School of Management Steven Dubinett Interim Dean, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA Eileen Strempel Dean, The Herb Alpert School of Music Lin Zhan Dean, School of Nursing Gary M. Segura Dean, Luskin School of Public Affairs Ronald Brookmeyer Dean, Fielding School of Public Health Brian Kite Interim Dean, School of Theater, Film and Television Eric Bullard Dean, School of Continuing Education and UCLA Extension Susan Ettner Dean, Graduate Education Virginia Steel University Librarian Related Administrative Policies Organization Chart (PDF) Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept