Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Research & Innovation / Penn’s Research Enterprise Penn’s Research Enterprise With an innovative and interdisciplinary mindset, Penn places a strong emphasis on encouraging and enabling any student to carry out research. It’s an ecosystem strategically created to help foster ideas, provide the resources to help build them up, and then take them from labs to commercialization. Student Innovation Opportunities and Resources President’s Engagement Prizes Competitively awarded on an annual basis, the President’s Engagement Prizes empower Penn seniors to design and undertake local, national, or global engagement projects during the first year after they graduate. President’s Innovation Prize President’s Innovation Prize awards a graduating Penn senior, or a team of graduating seniors, to envision and implement an innovative, commercial venture that makes a positive difference in the world. Center for Undergraduate Research & Fellowships Penn CURF helps Penn students deepen their academic experience through participating in research, applying for nationally competitive fellowships, or engaging intellectually within a cohort of scholars. Venture Lab - Innovation Fund The Innovation Fund exists to fund and support creative and meaningfully innovative ventures from the Penn student community. Weiss Tech House A student-run hub of technological innovation at Penn, Weiss Tech House encourages and supports students in the creation, development, and commercialization of innovative technologies. More resources via Penn Center for Innovation Research Facts & Figures 5,000 research faculty members 182 research centers and institutes 1,300 postdoctoral fellows $1.1B research budget Research Infrastructure Featured and recent additions to Penn’s research infrastructure. Pennovation Center The 58,000-square-foot anchor to the Pennovation Works campus, the Pennovation Center is a business incubator and laboratory that aligns and integrates researchers, innovators, and entrepreneurs for the commercialization of research discoveries. Tangen Hall Wharton-led and Penn-wide, Tangen Hall is the physical “start here” button bringing together aspiring entrepreneurs across the University. It maintains a retail flex space, a virtual reality cave, a test kitchen, maker spaces, and more. New Patient Pavilion Opening in 2021, the Pavilion marks a historic opportunity for Penn Medicine to set a new benchmark for care delivery. It will house 500 private patient rooms and 47 operating rooms in a 1.5 million-square-foot, 17-story facility. Academic Research Building The new building, which links to the south side of Steinberg Hall-Dietrich Hall, is an academic hub for faculty, students, and research programs, including those focused on data and analytics. Vagelos Laboratory for Energy Science and Technology The Vagelos Laboratory for Energy Science and Technology will consolidate existing and emerging energy research programs by providing 110,000 square feet of state-of-the-art laboratory space. A full list of research centers and institutes is available via OVPR. Penn Center for Innovation The Penn Center for Innovation is the University’s innovation, venture creation, and commercialization center. It provides infrastructure, leadership, and resources needed to transfer promising Penn inventions, know-how, and related assets into the marketplace for the public good. PCI transforms the Philadelphia region’s capacity to support an ecosystem of innovative entrepreneurs, companies, and workers all making essential contributions to our collective economic future. PCI Ventures PCI Ventures is dedicated to supporting technology commercialization within the Penn community. Since 2010, PCIV has worked with more than 200 faculty and staff members to form and launch new companies based on selected inventions and innovative technologies. For Industry PCI acts as a “one stop shop” for industrial partners, providing access to the services and resources needed to engage in sponsored research, collaborations, technology licenses, new venture creation, and other types of partnerships with Penn. Available Technologies Browse Penn-owned technologies available for licensing. Contact Penn Center for Innovation 3600 Civic Center Boulevard 9th Floor Philadelphia, PA 19104 (215) 898-9591 pciinfo@pci.upenn.edu "Innovation is much more than traditional patenting and technology transfer. It is about creating an innovation ecosystem that fosters a fluid exchange of ideas and expertise across a broad spectrum of new and established knowledge." Amy Gutmann, Former Penn President Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top