Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary INTERDISCIPLINARY GRADUATE PROGRAMS MUSEOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 MUSEUM 500 Introduction to Museology (4) Wilson O'Donnell Museum history, philosophy, and basic operations, including organization, income, collection management, conservation, exhibition, security, education, research, and ethics. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 500 MUSEUM 520 Learning in Museums (3) J. Luke Explore a range of learning theories and frameworks and their implications for museum practice. The course is organized around three key questions: What is learning What do we know about learning in museums, specifically? How do we design for learning in museums? View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 520 MUSEUM 521 Community Engagement (3) Students learn about the importance of community engagement, the strategies and tactics of implementation and their impact. Explores underlying theories that support community engagement, analyze frameworks and toolkits developed to help museum staff engage with their communities. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 521 MUSEUM 522 Making Meaning: New Models of Museum Interpretation (3) Explores modes of interpretation from labels to tours to collection management to technology. Through case studies, site visits, class discussion, and writing exercises, introduces students to the theory and practice of museum interpretation. Students think critically and creatively about inclusive, relevant, and engaging interpretive strategies for all museums. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 522 MUSEUM 524 Exhibit Development I (3) Fundamental principles of the museum exhibition process. Considers the full arc of exhibit development and provides a methodology for creating an exhibition from concept to installation. Applies those principles in collaboration with a community-based client. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 524 MUSEUM 525 Exhibit Development II (3) Continues the work of MUSEUM 524 in developing a complete, ready to install temporary exhibition. Prerequisite: MUSEUM 524. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 525 MUSEUM 528 Advocacy and Social Change (3) K. MORRISSEY Explore the ways museums have engaged in representing and advocating for social change and the implications of that engagement. Readings, discussion, and assignments consider the fragile and interesting boundaries between museums and society and the changing expectation of museums to contribute to the common good of society. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 528 MUSEUM 540 Preservation and Management of Collections (3) Focus on fundamental issues related to collections management, ranging from artifact handling and artifact storage solutions, to cataloging and photographing, as well as registration methods such as accessioning, deaccessioning, loans, and legal aspects of managing a museum collection. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 540 MUSEUM 541 Collections Management Lab (2) Practical training in the fundamental areas of collections management including: artifact handling, cataloging, condition reporting, photo-documentation and various storage methods. Prerequisite: MUSEUM 540, or concurrent enrollment. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 541 MUSEUM 542 Preservation of Collections II (3) Nicholas J Dorman, Geneva Griswold Lecture and demonstrations in the recognition and treatment of museum conservation problems for specimens of all types. Application of basic principles to specific preventive and active conservation and restoration problems encountered by curatorial personnel. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 542 MUSEUM 544 Philosophy and Ethics of Museum Collections (3) Explores ethics and issues related to collections housed in contemporary museums, addressing collections of many types including tangible and intangible aspects. Explores the meaning of "preserving cultural/natural significance": what museums, zoos, aquaria, and botanical gardens preserve, what they do not preserve, for whom, and how. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 544 MUSEUM 560 Museum Administration and Leadership (3) W. O'Donnell Principles and practices of museum administration and leadership. Organizational structures and policies; management and leadership theory; board issues; organizational conflicts; planning issues; collection concerns; financial constructs; professional standards; and museum/community relations from an organizational and management perspective. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 560 MUSEUM 562 Museum Law (3) Adam Eisenberg Explores the legal issues faced by art and science museums. Topics include copyright/trademark law, how the First Amendment protects controversial exhibits, repatriating Native American remains and cultural artifacts, donor rights, art appraising, wartime looting, and the ongoing debate over stewardship and ownership of the world's natural and cultural resources. Offered: jointly with LAW E 562; A. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 562 MUSEUM 563 Who Owns Humanity? (3) A. Eisenberg Explores the legal and ethical questions surrounding the ownership of art, digital collections, ancient skeletons, biological data and DNA. How do changing views of history, education and science shape how ownership is defined in the 21st Century, and what ethical issues are raised for museums and libraries? Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 563 MUSEUM 565 Museums and Technology (3) Angie Ong Introduction to technology's impacts on visitor experiences, learning, engaging virtual audiences, and developing technology infrastructures. Integrates case studies, class discussions, problem-centered workshops, and guest speakers. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 565 MUSEUM 566 Grant Writing in Museums (3) Students learn how to identify relevant grant funding opportunities for museums and determine the fit for a particular institution or project; gain familiarity with the components of a grant proposal; understand how proposals are reviewed, what funders typically look for, and the characteristics of a high quality grant proposal. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 566 MUSEUM 570 Thesis Design (4) Jessica Luke Prepares students to design their second year thesis; either a research study or a project. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 570 MUSEUM 574 Introduction to Museum Evaluation (3) A. Ong Provides an introduction to the field of evaluation as it relates to museum practice. Introduces basic types, ethics, and practices of evaluation and practices them through readings, reflective fieldwork, mentorships, and discussions. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 574 MUSEUM 575 Evaluation Data Analysis and Interpretation (3) Angie Ong Designed in collaboration with museum evaluators and built around a central evaluation study, extends student experiences and develops skills in data collection, data management, data analysis and interpretation. Prerequisite: MUSEUM 574. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 575 MUSEUM 576 Evaluation Specialization: Project Design (3) Angie Ong First course in a yearlong, student-led evaluation project. Builds on previously acquired skills and further develops competencies in project management, outcome development, evaluation planning, and instrumentation design. Students work with museum partners to develop the framework for an evaluation study and present a final evaluation plan implemented in the following quarter. Prerequisite: MUSEUM 574 and MUSEUM 575. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 576 MUSEUM 577 Evaluation Specialization: Data Collection (3) Angie Ong Second course in a yearlong, student-led evaluation project. Students implement evaluation plan presented in the previous quarter. Students focus efforts on refining their project's instruments, developing research protocols, and collecting and managing project data. Prerequisite: MUSEUM 576. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 577 MUSEUM 578 Evaluation Specialization: Analysis and Dissemination (3) Angie Ong Culmination of yearlong, student-led evaluation project. Students conduct quantitative and qualitative data analysis, interpret findings, and prepare final project deliverables for museum partners. Dissemination of final project includes a formal presentation and evaluation report. Additionally, students submit a concluding peer-evaluation and reflection of project experience. Prerequisite: MUSEUM 577. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 578 MUSEUM 583 Directed Fieldwork in Museum Operations (1-5, max. 15) Application of general museological training in one or more areas of supervised operation areas, including registration, education, exhibition, development, marketing or public relations. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 583 MUSEUM 584 Directed Fieldwork in Archaeological Collections (1-5, max. 15) Application of museological training in curation of archeological collections at the Burke Museum. Supervised work ranges from fundamental collection documentation and research to preventive conservation, storage, and other special curation projects. Prerequisite: MUSEUM 581. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 584 MUSEUM 585 Directed Fieldwork in General Collections (1-5, max. 15) Application of museological training in the curation of art, historic, botanical, geological, zoological, or other collections. Supervised work ranges from fundamental collection documentation and research to preventive conservation or storage, and other special curation projects. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 585 MUSEUM 588 Special Topics in Museology (1-5, max. 15) In-depth examination of selected current issues within the field of museology. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 588 MUSEUM 594 Public Programs (3) Seth M Margolis Explore and learn about best practices in museum programming. Students will gain the skills necessary to develop museum education programs from the initial concept to the final product, with an emphasis on the end user. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 594 MUSEUM 597 Directed Fieldwork in Audience Research (1-5, max. 15) Applies museological training in visitor studies gained from audience research coursework. Includes implementation of audience research and evaluation projects within a variety of local museums, zoos, and aquaria. Students develop and practice skills in data collection, analysis, and reporting of results. Prerequisite: MUSEUM 596. Instructors: Morrissey, Satwicz, Visscher Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 597 MUSEUM 599 Careers and Social Capital (3-5) O'Donnell Prepares students to transition from the academic community of a world-class university to a place of responsibility within a professional community that is committed to stewardship of the vast natural and created resources of our global communities and environments, including our stories, values, knowledge, mistakes, questions, and aspirations. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 599 MUSEUM 600 Independent Study or Research ([1-10]-) View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 600 MUSEUM 601 Internship (1-15, max. 15) Faculty supervised off-campus internships in museums and allied institutions. Each internship is individually established and provides students with practical experience and the opportunity to apply and learn new professional skills. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 601 MUSEUM 700 Master's Thesis ([1-10]-) View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 700 MUSEUM 710 Master's Project ([1-10]-, max. 10) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 710 MUSEUM 720 Master's Research (1-12, max. 12) Students design and execute a research study that makes a significant contribution to the museum field/literature. The research process includes identifying a research problem, framing research questions, developing instrumentation, collecting data, and analyzing and interpreting the data to answer research questions. Students work individually or in groups to write a journal article describing their research study and findings. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MUSEUM 720 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022