Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close The Accessible World In Focus The Accessible World Mental Health Climate Solutions Celebrating the Class of ’22 An accessible world is a better world for everyone. Behind the Design: This pause button gives people the ability to stop the video if they find it distracting or disorienting. Cosmic synesthesia Turning images of space into music makes the universe more accessible and beautiful. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Behind the Design: These boxes throughout the page illustrate some of the elements needed for an accessible webpage. To learn more about digital accessibility and tips for making your webpage more accessible, explore the resources of Harvard’s Digital Accessibility Services. The history of accessibility “Prior to the ADA, Americans with disabilities had been excluded from society … and generally barred from social participation by lack of accessibility and stigma.” Michael Ashley Stein, co-founder and executive director of the Harvard Law School Project on Disability Behind the Design: This and all other photos on this page have a descriptive text alternative attached so someone with a visual impairment can understand and appreciate what the photos adds to the stories. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Michael Ashley Stein, co-founder and executive director of the Harvard Law School Project on Disability, talks about the significance of the ADA over the last 30 years, and what it has meant for the people it protects. Read more about the ADA Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) In 1975, public schools in the United States accommodated only one out of five children with disabilities. Many states had laws that explicitly excluded children with disabilities from attending public school. Professor Thomas Hehir reflects on the current state of disabilities education as we celebrate the 40th anniversary of IDEA. Podcast transcript ▾ INTERVIEWER: In 1975 U.S. public schools accommodated only one out of five children with disabilities. Many States had laws that explicitly excluded children with certain types of disabilities from attending school including children who were deaf and blind. Yet, 1975 Federal legislation came along and made great change for our country. 1975 Tom Hehir was a teacher, 40 years later Tom Hehir is still a teacher here at the Harvard Ed School. Here with us now, Tom. Welcome to the EdCast. HEHIR: Thanks Matt. INTERVIEWER: Tom in 1975 where were you and what was the state of disabilities education? HEHIR: 1975 I was teaching at Keefe Tech in Framingham which was a regional voc-tech school. I was a special education teacher. I was teaching kids with disabilities. Massachusetts, I had a comprehensive special education law. A few years before the Federal law. So, a lot of what the Federal law did was already being done in Massachusetts, which number one, the most important thing was extending education to all children who had disabilities. In 1975 I was working in a regional voc-tech school that was integrating kids with disabilities into the mainstream. I was also at that time working after school in an institution for adolescence, well kids with adolescence who had disabilities who were living in a State institution, getting those kids ready to be returned to their communities. Because one of the things, one of the most important accomplishments of IDEA was extending education, particular these students with intellectual disabilities, or what was then referred to as mental retardation. And here in Massachusetts which was the case virtually everywhere there were State institutions in which large numbers of those children were housed at that time. Estimates were about 400,000 children and adults mostly with intellectual disabilities, many with physical disabilities like Cerebral Palsy. Some with mental health issues were institutionalized in the United States and they were in, most of them were kept in deplorable condition. Very few of the kids really got what you would call education today. So, I was working with kids in the community who had similar disabilities like Down’s syndrome and who were doing pretty well because they were being educated in the community. Some communities in Massachusetts you know, always educated everybody, but then going to the institution you know, after school and seeing kids who couldn’t read, couldn’t speak who had the same disabilities because of the condition in which they were kept. So, I think one of the greatest accomplishments of IDEA has been providing education to all kids. And nationally they estimated that between 800,000 and a million kids were completely excluded from school and that was very, very common at that time. INTERVIEWER: So Massachusetts was a little bit ahead of the curve, but at the time in 1975 this was a big deal for the country and a little bit of history lesson about how this legislation came about, how it was kind of pushed through and how it’s changed in 40 years, celebrating its 40th anniversary this year. HEHIR: Yeah. From my perspective and I think other scholars would agree, that there were basically two things that were happening simultaneously. One, you’ll be pleased to know Matt, is the media guy, was due to the media, was due to the fact that there had been exposes of these institutions. Most notably an expose done by Geraldo Rivera of Willowbrook which was the largest institution in the country and which was located in Staten Island. And he snuck in there with a camera and exposed the deplorable conditions. Back then and this is an interesting take on the media for the younger listeners. Back then there were only really three networks and if you were covered by one of them you were covered by three of them at the 6:00 nightly news, which everybody watched. So, there was kind of a common media experience that people had. And so, these exposes began being covered by the media. And the average American didn’t know these places existed and found it quite disgusting that the government was subjecting people to conditions that were you know, deplorable and dangerous. And so, that was you know, that was kind of in the political stream, talk about policy. But, also at the same time you know, given the time this was you know, during the Viet Nam time and during a time when there was a lot of questioning of existing power structures. There were a number of lawsuits that were initiated by public interest, legal organizations, advocacy organizations that were challenging the exclusion of kids from school, based on the 14th Amendment. That basically saying that the exclusion, the argument, the legal argument, which by the way hadn’t really prevailed up to this time because the 14th Amendment was around for a long time in 1975. But, in the late 60’s and early 70’s these lawsuits began to be found in favor of plaintiff’s so that they would, there was a big one in Pennsylvania called PARK, where the state of Pennsylvania agreed to enter into consent agreement rather than go to court around the exclusion of children again, with intellectual disabilities in the State of Pennsylvania. So, there was a big state and the District of Columbia had a similar suit. So, these suits were moving through the courts and so, there was an interest in the part of Congress to take this up as a national issue. The other thing that happened before the passage of IDEA which was the passage of Section 504, two years before. Section 504 is Section 504 the Rehabilitation Act and it was through a simple reauthorization of that piece of legislation that advocates were successful in putting in just one clause in that, in that law which was that basically that any entity that received federal funds that discriminated against people with disabilities, that that was illegal. And so, that’s a far reaching, very far reaching law and it was very much modeled after the Civil Rights, the 64 Civil Rights Statute and so forth. Which basically meant that school districts that didn’t enroll kids with disabilities were in violation of Section 504. So the section 504 that passed, there were these lawsuits going on, there was this media attention, but then you know, there was the need to provide school districts with assistance in being able to meet, now what was becoming a legal obligation, which was to educate all kids. And so, IDEA first and foremost was a funding belt. You know Section 504 just told you had to do it. It didn’t give you any money. And IDEA gave state’s money, but with a lot of strings. I mean you had to do individual, you had to find kids. You had to do what was called child find. You had to do individualized education. You had to give parents significant rights over the placement of their kids. It’s a pretty far reaching law, but it was all tied to whether States accepted the money. The vast majority of States started accepting money right away. Some of them took as long as 10 years to take IDEA money. INTERVIEWER: Tom is it a success 40 years later? Are you happy with the results? I know it’s nothing is ever ultimately perfect in all respects, but are you pleased in general and where can it be better? Where can it be improved? HEHIR: I think it’s a qualified success from my perspective. You know the extension of education to all kids I think is an unqualified success. I mean kids are better with education than without it. But, we, there are still issues that I think need to be addressed. I think there’s still a lot of segregation of kids with disabilities that is unnecessary and contrary to what research would say would be the best practices for those kids. I think many school districts, there are kids who get identified as needing special education that really could have gotten other approaches in general education that would have been far more effective. And that’s particularly true for low income kids and kids of color. So, you know again, I think it’s a qualified success. I think there were some places that haven’t embraced, that still haven’t embraced the values of the law which are around inclusion, which are around providing kids with what they need to be successful and from that perspective I think it’s, I think there may be some things we need to do to ramp it up. INTERVIEWER: Tom, always a pleasure talking to you. You’re always one of the best people in the world to talk about these issues. You have a book out too. I’d be remised if I didn’t ask you about that. HEHIR: Yeah. Well, I have a few books, but the one that, my most recent book is about students with disabilities here at Harvard and when I first came to teach here in 2000, after worked in the Clinton administration, I started seeing students with disabilities in my classes. And when I was a student here there really weren’t many students with disabilities and it was for me, a wonderful thing because my life’s work is about and so, I started asking students, you know I wanted to hear their stories. You know, how did you get to Harvard if you never heard a word and you write beautiful English, and your first language is American Sign Language. You know how do you get to Harvard if you couldn’t speak because you had Cerebral Palsy or you couldn’t see? Or, you couldn’t learn to read because you had dyslexia. I wanted to know their stories because again, when you think about achieving at the level you have to achieve to come to a school like Harvard, a lot of things have had to go right in your education and also I would say within your family. And so, I based this book on 16 students that I’ve had in classes that have all kinds of disabilities. Disabilities that were obvious by first or second grade. They’re not disabilities on the margins, they’re students who you know, who I mentioned were deaf or students who could not learn how to read. Two of the students in the book have had suicide attempts, had pretty significant mental health issues, so the, so basically the book is about you know what, you know if stories and for most of them IDEA was part of the story. INTERVIEWER: Undoubtedly benefited by this legislation. Here we are celebrating 40 years of it today. Tom thank you for being on the EdCast. HEHIR: OK Matt. INTERVIEWER: This has been the Harvard EdCast Production, the Harvard Graduate School of Education and I’m your host Matt Weber. Thank you kindly for listening. Behind the Design: This transcript lets those who can’t listen to the podcast have equal access to its content. Pushing accessibility forward Meet the Harvard experts who are working to ensure that physical and digital spaces are accessible to everyone. Testing a new sign and collecting feedback within our community is the most critical piece of the process because language is a living thing." Mandy Houghton, project lead on a collaboration between Harvard’s Center for Integrated Quantum Materials (CIQM) and The Learning Center for the Deaf (TLC) Behind the Design: By making the link below more descriptive than just “read more” we help those with screen readers decide if they want to click this link. Read more about this collaboration around science and sign language [C]hanging the conversation and bringing disability bias to the front of the mind for the everyday person will be necessary to change that bias." Tessa Charlesworth, a postdoc in the Department of Psychology researching implicit biases toward disabilities Read more about her research into implicit bias If you’re not testing with users who have disabilities, you’re missing a whole segment of the population; it would be like only testing with men.” Amy Deschenes, head of UX and digital accessibility for Harvard Library Learn more about how the User Research Center works Imagine a hurricane: people with disabilities would need early access to shelter, social supports, and medical assistance." David Liebmann, Graduate School of Education student researching the intersection of climate change and disability Read more from the School of Education Technology companies are acknowledging that they can play a major role in assisting the underserved and the disabled." Karae Lisle, Harvard Business School alum and CEO of Vista Center for the Blind and Visually Impaired, a nonprofit that offers evaluation, counseling, training, and education for the visually impaired Read more from the Business School On our campus Explore the steps we’re taking to ensure that Harvard University is a leader in accessibility. University Disability Resources A central resource on disability-related information, procedures, and services for the University community. Raising awareness Melissa Shang, a first-year student, disability activist, and children’s book author, brought her activism to campus to promote greater accessibility measures. To the stars The Astronomy lab is using pioneering technology to remove obstacles for those with various impairments. The accessible past The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East adds audio and transcript options to their Mediterranean Marketplace exhibit. Progress report The Accessibility Committee outlines progress and goals. Equal digital access Harvard adopted a Digital Accessibility Policy, which has helped to increase the accessibility of our public-facing websites and web-based applications. How to be an ally Behind the Design: This and all other section titles are coded as headings so people with screen readers can quickly browse the sections of this page. How to become a human rights advocate The Harvard Law School Project on Disability lays out some steps you can take to become an advocate for yourself and your community. Learn more from the Project on Disability How to battle ableism Learn what ableism is and how you can reduce it with this video from the Harvard Kennedy School Women and Public Policy Program. How to design spaces for a variety of human bodies Four accessibility practitioners talk about ways to move the field forward. Learn more from the School of Design How to create accessible spaces Behind the Design: To make things readable for people with low vision, we ensure that there is enough contrast between the black text and the grey background on the cards below. Labs When designing a laboratory, the space should provide a safe and effective working environment for everyone. Read more from the Harvard Chan School Places of worship Congregations benefit when people with disabilities participate. Learn more from the Divinity School Exercise spaces Explore these community strategies for making recreational physical activity safe, affordable, and accessible. Read more from the Harvard Chan School Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00