Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Emergency Management, BS Help Communities Recover From Large-Scale Disasters Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Public Administration, Schl of 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Gain Hands-On Experience in Disaster Preparedness, Response and Recovery Efforts The BS in Emergency Management prepares you to become a future emergency management leader through providing a well-rounded curriculum that covers the fundamental skills, theoretical understanding and knowledge needed to succeed in the industry. Your coursework will offer a deeper understanding about how to support organizations and communities in the preparedness, mitigation, response and recovery efforts of disaster situations while emphasizing ethical decision making, resilience and social responsibility. As an emergency management major, you’ll be required to complete a minor. Many students choose from areas such as public administration, urban and regional planning and nonprofit management. You may also select a minor outside of the School of Public Administration that has been approved by the undergraduate program coordinator. Emergency management classes are offered face-to-face at UCF Downtown, mixed-mode and online. This offers you the flexibility and convenience you need to balance school, work and life. Upon graduation, pursue an entry-level position within crisis and disaster preparedness and response in government, healthcare, military, education, nonprofits and private organizations such as banks and theme parks. You may also go on to obtain the Certified Emergency Manager credential — which accepts a bachelor’s degree in lieu of experience — to gain an edge on the competition. Highlights The emergency management program at UCF is the first undergraduate degree of its kind in the state of Florida. Partnerships with local government agencies provide opportunities for students to intern and participate in training exercises in live emergency operations centers. The job outlook for emergency managers is projected to grow 5 percent through 2029. The median annual pay for emergency managers in 2019 was $74,590. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Hazard Mitigation and Preparedness Gain the specialized knowledge and skills necessary to develop a proactive hazard mitigation plan to reduce the effects of natural and technological disasters. Disaster Response and Recovery Explore individual, group, organizational and community behavior and recovery from disasters. Service delivery strategies are highlighted and complex dynamics of the recovery process are emphasized. Community Resiliency and Sustainability Learn about the issues of community resiliency and sustainability specific to emergency and crisis management. Includes coverage of public policy and management, urban planning and development, and community sociology. View All Emergency and Crisis Management Courses You’ll Take Emergency and Crisis Management Skills You'll Learn Demonstrate knowledge of National Incident Management System, Incident Command System and Emergency Support Functions. Identify programs available to individuals and communities to help recover from a large-scale disaster. Analyze historical responses to extract lessons learned from previous events and responses. Compare effectiveness, cost and implementation barriers among various mitigation tools and strategies applied in local efforts. Understand the role of local, state and federal government, and private and nongovernmental organizations in mitigation, prevention, protection, preparedness, response and recovery. Exhibit expertise with ESRI based GIS software and GIS technology through hands-on use. Locate, analyze, interpret and manipulate spatial data to assist decision makers. Apply theories and principles of public finance to budgetary decision-making and the budgeting process. Career Opportunities Emergency Management Coordinator Crisis Response Specialist Training and Exercise Coordinator Emergency Services Coordinator GIS Analyst Disaster Assistance Specialist Health Preparedness Planner College of Community Innovation and Education News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Colleges & Campus Dean Named for the College of Community Innovation and Education Grant Hayes, interim provost and senior vice chancellor for Academic Affairs at East Carolina University, starts at UCF Aug. 1. Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Colleges & Campus Former Foster Care Child, Now Mother of 3 Reaches Goal of Becoming Teacher Recent spring graduate Jeanette Marie Reynoso shares her unlikely path to achieving her dream. Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Emergency Management (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × BA/BS in Emergency Management is designed to prepare future emergency management leaders through the development of various core competencies including: resilience, hazard mitigation and analysis, disaster response and recovery, emergency preparedness and planning, fiscal management, communication, intergovernmental administration, geographic information systems, legal and ethical decision making, cultural competency and diversity, and general emergency management. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students should complete the General Education Program before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Students should consult with a departmental advisor on a regular basis. Students must earn at least a "C-" in each course accepted as a Core Requirement (see section 4). No transfer course will be accepted with a grade lower than a "C-". The courses designated in section 1 (General Education) should usually be completed in the first 60 hours. Students must earn a 2.5 GPA in Core Requirements in order to graduate. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 30 - 33 Total Credits Complete all of the following Core requirements must be completed with a minimum GPA of 2.5 to satisfy the major Complete the following: PAD3733 - Professional Administrative Writing in the Public Sector (3) PAD4204 - Fiscal Management (3) PAD4390 - Hazard Mitigation and Preparedness (3) PAD4392 - Emergency Management and Homeland Security (3) PAD4395 - Disaster Response and Recovery (3) PAD4712 - Information Systems for Public Managers and Planners (3) PAD4720 - Research Methods in Public Administration (3) PAD4822 - Intergovernmental Administration (3) PAD4371 - Community Resiliency & Sustainability (3) PAD4942 - School of Public Administration Internship Orientation PAD4941 - Public Administration Internship (3 - 6) Restricted Electives 24 Total Credits Earn at least 24 credits from the following types of courses: Restricted Electives Required Minor 18 Total Credits Earn at least 18 credits from the following types of courses: Students are required to complete a minor that will enhance their background in the Emergency Management field. Approved Minors include: Public Administration, Urban and Regional Planning, Nonprofit Management, Health Services Administration, Intelligence and National Security, Criminal Justice, Terrorism Studies, Technical Communication, Mass Communication, and Secure Computing and Networks. Students may not choose Emergency Management and Homeland Security as a minor. Other minors must be approved by the Program Director. B.A./B.S. Option 6 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: Students pursuing the BA degree must demonstrate proficiency in a foreign language equivalent to one year in college. ASL I and II ( ASL 2140 and ASL 2150) can also be used to fulfill this requirement. BS Option Complete at least 2 of the following: PAD4104 - Administrative Theory (3) PAD4131 - Public Sector Project Management (3) PAD4204 - Fiscal Management (3) PAD4351 - Issues in Environmental Program Management (3) PAD4414 - Human Resource Administration (3) CJT3803 - Security Management (3) DSC4012 - Terrorism (3) DSC4013 - Homeland Security and Criminal Justice (3) INR4074 - Immigration Policy (3) INR4084 - Politics of International Terrorism (3) INR4363 - Intelligence Analysis and Reporting (3) INR4764 - Cyberwarfare Policy (3) PUR4400 - Crisis Communication (3) Capstone Requirements 3 Total Credits Complete the following: PAD4371 - Community Resiliency & Sustainability (3) Grand Total Credits: 81 - 84 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida