Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search General Information – Master of Industrial Design The School of Industrial Design at Georgia Tech is among the distinct preeminent design programs in the U.S. with access to the resources of a top-tier research university. Access to distinguished faculty and emerging technologies present a highly favorable environment for discovery, innovation, and intellectual freedom. The multidisciplinary nature of design thinking and design research, combined with students with unique academic and professional experiences create an educationally rich space of interdisciplinary minds within the MID program. The curriculum specializes in fortifying the designer’s role in humanizing connections between people and technology, with a focus on the areas of interaction design, healthcare design, service design, product design, and user-experience research. Upon completion, MID graduates gain versatility in industry due to their unique blend of skills. From positions in product design, UX/UI design research, to strategy and consulting, our alumni are equipped to fill a critical and growing need for tech-savvy and data-driven user-first advocates. MID program tuition waiver for Fall 2022: In celebration of the GT-Shenzhen MID program launch in Fall 2022, all admitted GT-Shenzhen MID program students will be offered full tuition waiver for the Fall 2022 semester. This is a one-time offer for Fall 2022 only. GT-Shenzhen MID program students will be considered for Merit-Based Scholarships starting from the second semester they are enrolled at GT-Shenzhen based on their academic history and performance. Learn More About Georgia Tech Industrial Design GT-Shenzhen Master of Industrial Design General Information Academics Diploma Degree Requirements Coursework Planning Admissions Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology