Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Theatre & Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Purchase Tickets Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Guest Artists Facilities Scene ShopCostume ShopLighting BoothSound BoothDesign LabBook A Space Contact Map CCFA Take Action 2022-2023 Season Prospective Students Watch Me – Theatre Video UofM Ranked Among Top Dance Programs in the Nation Follow Us On Social Media InstagramFacebook Home Theatre & Dance About About Theatre & Dance The Department of Theatre & Dance at the University of Memphis fosters the development of our students on an individual basis. We offer a BFA in Theatre with concentrations in performance, musical theatre, dance, dance science and design and technical production as well as an MFA in Theatre with concentrations in directing and design and technical production. We tailor our program to your needs. We are large enough to offer dynamic performance, design, and crew opportunities both in the classroom and in our four performances spaces. We also create an intimate community for intense one-on-one learning opportunities. Our diverse faculty nurtures the individual progress of each student, be they a budding costume designer, a musical theatre performer, or stage manager. We are both a generalized program (where students can explore all areas of theatre) and a specialized one (where students can hone an area of focus). Exciting World of the Performing Arts The Department of Theatre & Dance at the University of Memphis invites you to join us as we explore the exciting world of the performing arts. We are dedicated to a unified program designed to help you learn to use your body, voice, and mind more proficiently than you ever thought possible. We believe that each student should be broadly prepared with as many meaningful artistic experiences as imaginable. We celebrate theatre and dance in all its infinite varieties. Programs of Study We offer the BFA degree in Theatre with concentrations in performance, musical theatre, dance, dance science and design and technical production, and graduate studies leading to an MFA degree in Theatre. Within the MFA degree, training is available in Directing and in Design and Technical Production. If you are a performer, you may notice that there is no MFA program in acting, which means you are not competing with graduate actors for roles! The University of Memphis is an accredited institutional member of the National Association of Schools of Theatre. An Excellent Faculty Our emphasis on professionalism is reflected by the department's excellent faculty of 17 teachers and artists dedicated to the nurturing of individual creativity. More than just outstanding professors, at the Department of Theatre & Dance you will encounter genuine mentors, a faculty devoted to your development as an individual. Our faculty remain active in their chosen fields continuing to direct, design, choreograph, produce, and perform, on campus and off. Faculty maintain professional affiliations and professional contacts that enrich the classroom experience. A Full Production Season The Department of Theatre & Dance mounts a full season of plays and dance concerts in a variety of performance venues, large and small. With our emphasis on diversity and the breadth of experience only the performing arts can provide, audiences expect the best in area theatre and dance from us. Our upcoming productions are an astonishing mix of comedy and drama, music and dance. Mission Statement To educate the next generation of theatre artists for successful careers in the performing arts, the entertainment industry and arts education and to contribute to the cultural climate of our diverse community, region, and beyond as engaged partners. Central to the mission is the belief that theoretical and practical courses combined with production experiences and personalized mentorship are critical to the education and training of our students. Vision To cultivate a diverse community, in which all voices are valued, that fosters excellence in research, production, teaching, learning, community outreach, and collaboration. Values The Department of Theatre & Dance embraces the following values in teaching, creativity, research and service; diversity, equity, inclusiveness, accessibility, professionalism, innovation, respect, and collegiality. The primary goals of the theatre unit are to provide: Public education designed to enrich the intellectual competence and achievement of the populace it serves regionally and nationally. An academic environment for educational, creative, entrepreneurial and scholarly pursuits. Theatre education and training that combine a professional focus within a Liberal Arts foundation. Leadership and involvement in the artistic growth of Memphis, the state of Tennessee and the nation. An avenue dedicated to the discovery, acquisition, dissemination, and preservation of knowledge for the advancement of our community. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.