Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries General Science with Teaching Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs General Science with Teaching Major Apply Visit Request More Info General Science with Teaching Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in General Science with Teaching The Bachelor of Science in General Science with Teaching in Temple’s College of Science and Technology is especially designed for students majoring in natural sciences who want to pursue a career in STEM education. This 124-credit-hour, interdisciplinary degree is offered through Temple’s innovative TUteach program. General Science with Teaching As a General Science Major, you will analyze, evaluate and use scientific literature in your own research. build a strong foundation in the traditional disciplines of science. develop the ability to discuss and present on scientific issues that impact society. gain a thorough understanding of scientific methodology by studying historical and theoretical models as well as experimenting in the lab. learn to process and evaluate both theoretical and real-life quantitative data. sharpen your skills in scientific inquiry, writing and oral presentation. During the course of your program, you will have multiple opportunities to practice teaching in Philadelphia School District classrooms. You’ll also be assigned an advisor who will help you to find internship opportunities in education, fulfill curriculum requirements and submit the required documents to become a candidate for the Praxis exam. Temple TUteach TUteach is a collaboration between the College of Science and Technology and the College of Education and Human Development. TUteach integrates a secondary school (grades 7 through 12) mathematics or science teaching track so you can become eligible to take the Praxis certification exam upon graduation. Learn more about the TUteach program degrees. Classes & Curriculum Students are exposed to the foundations of natural science, laboratory investigations and teacher training. There are also many opportunities to pursue internships both on campus and in the community. Learn more about the General Science with Teaching Major curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Accomplished Teaching MSEd* Biology MS Biology PhD Chemistry PhD Education PhD* Geology MS Geoscience PhD Mathematics MS Mathematics PhD Physics MS Physics PhD Scientific Writing PSM Related Graduate Certificates College Access and Success* Digital Education Leadership* Diversity Leadership* Institutional Effectiveness* Scientific Writing Certificate Student Affairs Leadership Teaching in Higher Education Certificate* *College of Education and Human Development TUteach offers degrees in all natural sciences. In addition to the General Science with Teaching Major, majors are Biology with Teaching, Chemistry with Teaching, Earth and Space Science with Teaching, General Science with Teaching, Mathematics with Teaching, Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching, Mathematics and Technology with Teaching (includes four Engineering courses), and Physics with Teaching. Learn more about each major's academic programs. +1 Bachelor-Master Programs The College of Science and Technology offers +1 Accelerated Bachelor-Master Programs. Students can earn a BA or BS and, at the end of the fifth year, an MA or MS. Coursework is completed over five years instead of taking the usual six-year course of study. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s +1 Bachelor-Master programs. General Science with Teaching Major / Master of Education You can also earn a General Science with Teaching Major from the College of Science and Technology and a Master of Education from the College of Education and Human Development. Qualified students can earn a master’s degree in five years, instead of taking the usual six. Learn more about pursuing this accelerated degree. Dual Bachelor-Master Program for International Students International students have the opportunity to earn a bachelor’s degree from their home institution and a graduate degree from Temple over five years. This multidisciplinary program includes undergraduate- and graduate-level coursework at Temple. Students are prepared for professional careers in today’s global economy and job market. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s Dual Bachelor-Master Program for international students. 3+4 Accelerated Programs The College of Science and Technology offers 3+4 Accelerated Degree Programs in a seven-year course of study, instead of the usual eight years. Qualifying undergraduate students can obtain the General Science with Teaching Major from CST and a Doctor of Medicine in Dentistry from the Kornberg School of Dentistry, Doctor of Podiatric Medicine from the School of Podiatric Medicine, Doctor of Medicine from the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, or Doctor of Pharmacy Medicine from the School of Pharmacy. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s 3+4 Accelerated Degree Programs. 3+3 Accelerated Program Qualified students can earn the General Science with Teaching Major and a Doctor of Physical Therapy from the College of Public Health over a five-year course of study, instead of taking the usual six years. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology's 3+3 Accelerated Degree Program. Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program The College of Science and Technology Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program is designed for students planning to apply to medical school or pursue other health-related professions. The program offers the following two tracks. The Basic Core in Health Sciences is intended for professionals who need the required science courses to apply to medical school. The Advanced Core in Health Sciences is a program for current students who have met the premedical requirements and who seek advanced science coursework. Both tracks include classes in the Lewis Katz School of Medicine and the College of Science and Technology. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate new student orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides guidance postgraduation, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development, academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. TUteach Advisors All TUteach majors have advisors to help them navigate their time in the program. Each semester, your advisor will assist you with finding internship opportunities, fulfilling curriculum requirements and submitting the required documents to become a candidate for taking the Praxis exam. Program Contact George Mehler, assistant professor in the Department of Mathematics, is the faculty advisor for the General Science with Teaching degree. Phone: 215-204-4074 Email: george.mehler@temple.edu Kristina Najera is the assistant dean of teacher education and an advisor for TUteach. Email: knajera@temple.edu Kenneth Ruff is an advisor for TUteach. Phone: 215-204-3628 Email: kenneth.ruff@temple.edu Susan Varnum is the associate dean for science education and an advisor for TUteach. Phone: 215-204-6390 or 215-204-4073 Email: susan.varnum@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations at the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with career professionals or scientists in your field of study, and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 pre-health clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance both your academic and social lives with a club focused on your area of study or interests. Students pursuing a General Science with Teaching Major may be interested in the following clubs and organizations. Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM develops comprehensive strategies to increase the number of minority students who can successfully complete their baccalaureates and higher professional degrees in the STEM fields. Geological Society of Temple University, which encourages students to explore geological and environmental topics through social experiences with peers. Leadership, Education, and Development in Science (LEADS) empowers students from disadvantaged North Philadelphia middle schools to gain an interest in natural and/or physical sciences, such as Chemistry, Physics and Biology. Math Club supports a scholarly community of students and faculty with a passion for mathematics and promulgates the field through a series of activities. Temple University Chemical Society, an organization that helps students pursuing Chemistry degrees with their coursework and that offers service opportunities in the community. Study Abroad Opportunities Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-GSTC-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in General Science with Teaching Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info