Skip to main content Spring 2022 Spring 2022 Archives The Magazine of the University of Central Florida Featured Stories More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. The Feed Check out more stories at UCFToday 04/14 UCF Class Spotlight: Introduction to American Sign Language 12/14 My Name Is Ren 11/18 UCF Names Its Microgravity Research Center in Honor of Stephen W. Hawking 11/18 UCF Wins U.S. Department of Energy Cyber Defense Competition — Again 11/16 College of Medicine Top Ranked Nationally for Dermatology Matches 11/09 FPL, GE Digital Launch New Lab for UCF Engineering Students 11/05 2 UCF Professors Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida 10/29 UCF Alumni Announces 2021 Shining Knights Award Winners 10/18 UCF’s Expertise Gets Invite to Ivy League Network of Large Laser Energy Facilities 10/14 2021 Another Record Year – Five Consecutive Years of Rising Research Funding What's Trending Tweets by @UCF In This Issue Spring 2022 Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. In Focus A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Feature Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Why I… We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Feature Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Infographic Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. In Focus Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Launchpad Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. Gallery Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. AlumKnights Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. In Focus Events Tue 31 May Meeting Alcoholics Anonymous ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to… Wed 1 Jun Academic Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy Summer Research Academy (SRA) is a fast-paced, 3-day event in July. It is a 1-credit course (IDS 3913) that runs during Summer B term, but most of the work will be completed during the event in July. SRA is ideal for… Wed 1 Jun Workshop/Conference Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy Participants in the Summer Research Academy will: Learn about the nature of university research and how it can expand your undergraduate experience. Meet with research faculty and other students active in research. Explore research opportunities available to undergraduate students at UCF. Prepare professionally for… Why I Believe in Medical City Why I… Connect Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address About About the Magazine Our Awards Contribute Give Pegasus © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816 Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube