Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Biochemistry (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Just below the surface of every living organism lies a complexity of millions of chemical reactions, each of which is necessary for an animal, plant or even virus to thrive. Even a simple task like eating an apple will kick your metabolism into gear with biochemical reactions that allow you to break down that apple into carbohydrates, proteins and fats, which in turn provide you with energy. As a biochemistry major, you’ll learn about how these biochemical processes can affect human disease, genetics or even bacteria. This degree provides a strong preparation for many scientific careers and is an excellent foundation for professional health schools such as medical, veterinary, dental and pharmacy, as well as for graduate research in multiple science disciplines. FAST FACTS More than 30 percent of our students are members of the Clemson University Honors College. Once you have completed general course requirements, you'll have a lot of flexibility in choosing advanced courses. More than 75 percent of our students go on to professional or graduate school programs. Our department interacts closely with the Institute for Translational Genomics. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY One of the first courses biochemistry majors are required to take is designed to introduce you to careers, professional organizations, ethical issues and the requirements for advanced studies. In the first two years, you’ll take various courses in the sciences such as general, organic, quantitative and physical chemistry as well as physics and biology. Each of these courses builds a foundation for you to be successful in the upper-level course work in biochemistry, metabolism, cell biology and bioinformatics. Additionally, you can tailor your degree to your specific career goals as you choose your upper-level science classes. Pick from approved science requirements such as human anatomy and physiology, plant pathology, genetics, microbiology, pathogenic bacteriology and immunology. Because biochemistry spills over into pharmacology, physiology, microbiology and clinical chemistry, a bachelor’s degree in biochemistry can offer a direct path to a career in government or industry. The U.S. Department of Agriculture, the National Institutes of Health and the Environmental Protection Agency are just a few of the government agencies that employ biochemists specializing in basic research. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries employ biochemists in research as well as in areas outside the lab such as marketing, management, science information, technical writing and editing. This degree is also a great foundation for professional programs such as medical, dental, veterinary and even law. Curriculum Biochemistry, B.S. Popular Minors Biological Sciences Business Administration Chemistry Genetics Microbiology Modern Languages Similar Majors Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Biosystems Engineering (B.S.) Chemistry (B.S./B.A.) Genetics (B.S.) Microbiology (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Outside the classroom, you’ll often find a biochemistry student in the lab, many times working alongside our nationally recognized faculty whose diverse research interests range from spiders to cancer. You'll also have a chance to participate in internships and study abroad, as well as join any of Clemson’s hundreds of student organizations. Lab work Take a part-time position, volunteer or earn course credit through research opportunities available in faculty laboratories. Our faculty have diverse research interests such as alternative fuels and hereditary diseases of canines. Research Through independent research, you'll learn the latest cutting-edge methodologies in biochemical and genetic research while improving observation and communication skills. Honors More than 30 percent of biochemistry majors are in the Calhoun Honors College. In 2015, two genetics and biochemistry majors were named Goldwater Scholars, the top national award for undergraduates in science and engineering.Learn More » JOIN Clemson's Biochemistry/ Genetics Club hosts speakers, watches films and discusses current topics related to the fields of biochemistry and genetics. This club is a great way to meet and network with like-minded students, professors and researchers. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS COSMIC Alpha Epsilon Delta Biochemistry and Genetics Club Institute for Translational Genomics AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. For Clemson biochemistry majors, more than 75 percent go on to professional or graduate school. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of them. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Clinical Lab Technician Precision Therapeutics Research Associate Alion Science and Technology Laboratory Technologist Greenwood Genetic Center Consultant Progressive Healthcare RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES MD Harvard Medical School MD Medical University of South Carolina DMD Boston University Ph.D. Molecular Genetics Ohio State University J.D. University of Georgia COMMON CAREER AREAS Research Basic Research Applied Research Grant Writing Administration Teaching Elementary Secondary Post-secondary Non-classroom Settings Health Care Medicine Dentistry Optometry Podiatry Pharmacy Chiropracty Veterinary Medicine Occupational Therapy Physical Therapy Public Health Other Professional Opportunities Sales and Marketing Technical Writing Scientific Journalism Scientific Illustration Regulatory Affairs Administration and Management Scientific or Technical Recruiting Intellectual Property or Patent Law Bioinformatics Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Sharetta Bufford Recruiter 864-656-3296 Email Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Biochemistry (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Biosystems Engineering (B.S.) Chemistry (B.S./B.A.) Genetics (B.S.) Microbiology (B.S.)