Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Report it About Meet the staff Values Students Making a report Student Conduct Code Student conduct process Academic misconduct Student rights Student resources Faculty/Staff Academic misconduct Report academic misconduct Who to contact Sanctions and grading Tips for preventing academic misconduct Disruptive students Living off campus Community resources Landlord-Tenant Act Respondent Resources Parent & Family FAQ Community Standards & Student Conduct Community Standards & Student Conduct Our Mission CSSC strives to ENGAGE students in an equitable process centered on the values of honesty, integrity, and respect. Students are encouraged to REFLECT on their actions to understand their impact on the community, and to DEVELOP an understanding of their decisions to work toward success. Report It Students, staff, and faculty can report alleged misconduct using our online tool. Report an Incident Student Conduct Code The Student Conduct Code outlines the standards that all UW students are expected to uphold. Learn More Respondent resources CSSC offers support and information to students named as respondents in conduct matters, including Title IX violations. More Consultation CSSC is a part of a University-wide Student Care Team sponsored by the Division of Student Life. If you are concerned about a student, please contact CSSC at cssc@uw.edu or fill out a CARE report located here Transfer and background checks To verify attendance or good standing, please email completed forms to cssc@uw.edu . Disciplinary records will not be released without a student’s written permission. Please allow 2-3 business days for completion. Community standards UW students are good neighbors. Check out the living off campus section for more information and community resources. Staff Logon Contacting the CSSC Team You may reach us between 9:00am – 4:00pm by phone at 206-685-6194. Staff emails can be found here. All other inquiries should be directed to cssc@uw.edu. CSSC and the Student Conduct Code https://uw-s3-cdn.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/32/2022/03/01193759/GMT20220226-002502_Recording_1600x900.mp4 Contact Community Standards & Student Conduct Schmitz 447 Box 355836 206-685-6194 cssc@uw.edu The Division of Student Life The Division of Student Life offers many more resources for students. Here are a few: Division of Student Life LiveWell Disability Resources for Students Career & Internship Center Housing & Food Services University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA