<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → The First-Year Experience→ The First-Year Experience The First-Year Experience An inside look at student life as it unfolds for RCs. An inside look at student life as it unfolds for RCs. View The Second-Year Experience Aug START With a mix of academic and social activities, START gets RCs (first-year students) oriented over two jam-packed days. Welcome Class of 2020 Section Reveal First Day of Class Video 25 AUG 2014 Welcome Class of 2018: You Are HBS Video 25 AUG 2014 Section Reveal Video 28 AUG 2014 First Day of Class You Might Want to Read 8 Reasons the Section Experience is the Best Part About HBS → Sep MBA Student Club Fair From rugby and hospitality, to aerospace and negotiation, there's a club for that. Hundreds of RCs explore all that student clubs have to offer. You Might Want to Read Recap of the 4th Annual Women in Investing Summit → Sep MBA Fall Family Fling Balloons! Cookies! Jungle gyms! What more could a kid (or adult) want? The Fall Family Fling has it all for student families. You Might Want to Read Moving to the U.S. with a Family → Oct National Coming Out Day The HBS PRIDE Club celebrates National Coming Out Day with activities across campus to share LGBTQ+ perspectives and increase the community’s visibility. Joining the LGBT Community at HBS (video) 07 Oct 2020 7 Coming Out Stories from the HBS PRIDE Club PRIDE AuthorHBS Community tag LGBTQ+ Some students come out before business school, and some students wait until they arrive on campus. Many who participate in events choose to keep their LGBTQ+ status private. We accept everyone in any stage of their coming out process and hope that you will be inspired by the stories of these students as they continue to grapple with a world that is not always accepting of who they are. Now, during this period of wild uncertainty – and, for many, anxiety and loneliness – our visibility and representation matter more than ever. [...] →Read more Nov Veterans Day Reflections on Services-Armed Forces Alumni Association Student Profiles AFAA AuthorMilitary Students tag Military The HBS students featured represent a small portion of the many veterans who live and learn in our community. They are sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, spouses and parents, each of whom served voluntarily in their nation’s armed forces. Many served in combat. They are proud to share this deeply personal aspect of their lives with you. [...] →Read more Jan LET IT SNOW! Winter can transform our campus into a snow-lovers' paradise, recently with a record-breaking 110 inches, and RCs soaked up every moment of it! Winter At HBS Jan Short Intensive Programs (SIPs) SIPS are no-fee, no-credit elective courses for RCs and ECs that offer the opportunity to think about career choices, gain practical skills, and explore topics you might otherwise never get to study. Startup Bootcamp, launched originally for RCs, is still one of the most popular SIPs. Startup Bootcamp (video) Apr Customer Interaction Days First-year students reflect on their experiences during Customer Interaction Days as part of FIELD Immersion. In preparation for their assignment, students participate in a challenging, local team-based exercise. By practicing Design Thinking, a structured approach to meeting unmet customer needs, students develop a product or service for the market similar to what their company will require come May. Customer Interaction Days (Video) Apr NEW VENTURE COMPETITION The student New Venture Competition is a year-long entrepreneurial journey to launch new business and social impact ventures while at HBS. The program culminates with a capstone event in which all participants, including teams comprised of first- and second-year students, present live to top investors and entrepreneurs! Hour 72+ Wins 2018 New Venture Competition Business Track (video) $300,000 Cash plus in-kind prizes ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College