Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Utah State TODAY Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Utah State TODAY Open main menu Close Open search Home Explore Stories Close Explore Stories Arts & Humanities Business & Society Health & Wellness Land & Environment Science & Technology Teaching & Learning Campus Life Athletics University Affairs Series Topics In Focus All Stories Resources Close Resources Subscribe USU Pressroom USU in the News Submission Instructions Submit a Press Release Contact us Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Arts & Humanities Porscha Doucette Becomes First USU Statewide Peak Summer Research Fellow By Marcus Jensen | May 17, 2022 Full Size Porscha Doucette, a USU Moab student, has been awarded the Peak Summer Research Fellowship to aid her research into the historical contributions of racial and ethnic minorities to the field of social work. × Download Close Download MOAB, Utah — Utah State University Moab student Porscha Doucette has been awarded the Peak Summer Research Fellowship, becoming the first student from a USU Statewide campus to receive the prestigious fellowship. Doucette is a junior majoring in social work in USU’s College of Humanities & Social Sciences. Doucette will join other Peak Summer Research Fellows in the program, which starts May 16. She will work with USU faculty member Chris Babits, a postdoctoral teaching fellow in the Department of History. “This is the highest honor that CHaSS awards,” Doucette said. “I appreciate this research fellowship program because I excel as an independent learner. The opportunity to delve deeply into a topic, with only my own goals and deadlines, is exciting — but it is even more exciting to be able to do so with a mentor and the support of the university and faculty.” Endowed by David and Terry Peak, the Peak Summer Research Fellowship funds a select cohort of highly engaged undergraduate students in the Peaks’ colleges — the College of Science and the College of Humanities & Social Sciences — through a summer research experience. These fellows will spend 10 weeks actively engaging in research with faculty mentors, have access to special trainings and workshops, and will come out of this fellowship poised to succeed in competitive applications for graduate school and national fellowships and grants. Together, Doucette and her mentor will be researching how the history of social work is taught in undergraduate programs and will seek to find out how more diverse voices could be included in curriculums. The project hopes to create a multicultural and diverse understanding of the history of social work. “As I’ve seen so far, the history of social work is largely framed around the contributions of white middle- and upper-class women and ignores the similar contributions of racial and ethnic minorities,” Doucette said. “Through this research fellowship, I hope to engage in effective social justice by influencing the history of social work which is taught at USU, and hopefully, all undergraduate social work programs.” Babits encouraged Doucette to apply for the fellowship and will act as her primary mentor during the 10-week research project. Babits is excited to see how the project evolves, seeing its potential to have an impact in the social work landscape. “Porscha’s promise as a researcher and as an advocate for change are on full display in her Peak Fellowship project,” Babits said. “‘Investigating the Erasure of Diverse Perspectives in Social Work’s History’expresses a dire need for greater historical literacy in social work education. Porscha has outlined an impressive research endeavor for this summer — one that has the potential to transform how social work educators teach the history of their profession, both at USU and throughout the nation.” Doucette is a nontraditional student, having returned to school after 20 years of being out of college. She reenrolled in college in spring 2021. She chose USU Moab because of its proximity to her home and the flexibility the campus offered a nontraditional student such as herself. “I have been living and working in Moab for the last 14 years,” Doucette said. “The ability to go to school without moving was essential in my decision to go to USU.” Located in the outdoor recreation paradise of Moab and boasting one of the greenest buildings on any USU campus, Utah State University Moab offers students the personalized attention and small class sizes of a small-town college with the resources of a large university. With programs such as Nursing, Elementary Education, Recreation Resource Management and Social Work, technical education in Health Professions, Automotive and Business, and degree options ranging from associate to doctorate degrees, USU Moab offers programs that help fuel local economies and empower individuals and their communities. Learn more at moab.usu.edu. WRITER Marcus Jensen News Coordinator University Marketing and Communications marcus.jensen@usu.edu CONTACT Chris Babits Postdoctoral Research Fellow Department of History chris.babits@usu.edu TOPICS Research 717stories Society 397stories Statewide Campuses 136stories History 93stories Humanities 53stories Comments and questions regarding this article may be directed to the contact person listed on this page. Next Story in Arts & Humanities May 23, 2022 641 Lyric Repertory Company Announces Summer 2022 Lineup The Lyric Repertory Company is producing six hot shows in three cool venues this summer. Read the Story See Also May 20, 2022 641 2022 Bennion Teachers Workshop to Promote Literacy in Interplay of Religion, Democracy The Mountain West Center for Regional Studies at Utah State University will host its 23rd Bennion Teachers' Workshop June 20-24 on the Logan campus. Trending on Utah State Today Read the Story HEALTH & WELLNESS May 19, 2022 165461 Update for USU Community on Coronavirus Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 02, 2022 2707 USU Names Irungu Inaugural VP of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 26, 2022 2643 Degree Programs Realigned to Create New Department at Utah State University Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 03, 2022 2627 Utah State University to Award More Than 7,000 Degrees in 2022 FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 EXPLORE STORIES Browse Archives Explore Topics Explore Series USU in the News FOR THE MEDIA Pressroom Media Contacts Media resources About USU SUBSCRIBE Receive our weekly newsletter. Subscribe to Utah State Today Email Subscribe Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page