Skip to main content Our response to COVID-19: roundup of learning resources, news, published research DBEI | CCEB | Intranet DBEI Main menu About Us Research Education Faculty Connect With Us CCEB Secondary menu Log in About Us Vision and Mission What We Do Message From the Chair Our Response to COVID-19 Our Vision of Justice Leadership History In the News Research Research Publications Roundup Our Research on Health Disparities 2022 DBEI & CCEB Research Day 2022 Research Gallery DBEI Research Integration Focused Series 2021 DBEI & CCEB Research Day Recap Research Gallery Featured Faculty Talks Population Health - Making Science Matter: Keynote by Sue Curry Postdoctoral Researchers Research Day Archive 2019 DBEI & CCEB Research Day Recap Featured Faculty Talks Distinguished Faculty Talks Toward a New Research-Practice Paradigm: Keynote by Peter J. Embi 2018 DBEI & CCEB Research Day Recap DBEI & CCEB Research Day: Division Leader Videos Research Day Keynote: Michael V. McConnell Video Education All Educational Programs Our Educational Approach Biostatistics Epidemiology Informatics Alumni Spotlights Graduation 2021 Graduation 2020 Graduation 2019 Graduation 2018 Graduation 2022 Faculty Faculty Recruitment Distinguished Faculty Reach Across Disciplines Bridging the Gap Between Complex Sensor Data and Knowledge Expanding the Reach of the EHR Through Data Integration Partnering to Address Psoriatic Arthritis Looking to a Collaborative Approach to Advance MS Solutions Working Across Disciplines to Understand Sex Differences in Concussion DBEI Inaugural Distinguished Faculty Ceremony Connect With Us DBEI News Archive Contact Us/Visit CCEB Biostatistics Epidemiology Informatics Our research advances the full spectrum of population-health science. Read more about how we define the field. >> To understand health and disease today, we need new thinking and novel science—the kind we create when multiple disciplines work together from the ground up. Read More Home Featured on DBEI DBEI & CCEB 2022 Research Day: Check out our gallery of rising experts From our biostatistics chief: COVID-19 commentaries, research results, models and more Announcements Knashawn Morales & Wei-Ting Hwang New ASA Fellows Knashawn Morales, ScD, and Wei-Ting Hwang, PhD, have been named as new Fellows of the American Statistical Association. The world’s largest community of statisticians, the ASA is known as the “Big Tent for Statistics.” Read more about Dr. Morales. Read more about Dr. Hwang. Biostatistics Program Achieves High Ranking US News & World Report has issued its first-ever ranking of doctoral programs in biostatistics — and the one taught by our faculty is #6, up from #12! “A field where career opportunities are expected to grow.” See those rankings here. View More Announcements In the News Yes, the Pfizer Vaccine Is Very Effective May 2022 Social media posts this month claiming new revelations that the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine is only 12 percent effective against infection most likely stem from a misreading of documents made public more than a year ago, says Jeffrey Morris, PhD. Australian Football Player's Heart Issues: Not Related to Covid May 2022 Jeffrey Morris, PhD, debunked the latest in a series of misleading claims that linked athletes' heart issues with Covid-19 vaccines. Finding the Right Logic for Masking Rules April 2022 If Philadelphia's masking policy aims to prevent spread of Covid-19, emphasizing hospitalization numbers, a lagging indicator, over case numbers isn't wise, comments Michael Levy, PhD. “It’s like instead of using a weather forecast, just putting a bucket out and seeing how much rain is in it.” View More News The DBEI distinctively brings together expertise in biostatistics, epidemiology and informatics, to advance population-health science. Annual Events Upcoming Events Epidemiology Symposium on Advances in Genomics, Epidemiology and Statistics (SAGES) Epidemiology | June 17, 2022 9:00am to 6:00pm View More Epidemiology Events Informatics Symposium on Advances in Genomics, Epidemiology and Statistics (SAGES) Informatics | June 17, 2022 Informatics | June 17, 2022 9:00am to 6:00pm View More Informatics Events Featured Research Innovative Text Messaging Plus a Nursing Team: Dramatic Covid Results Hint at Broader, Equitable Potential Epidemiology Evictions and the Role of Eviction Moratoria During Covid-19 Epidemiology The Delicate Balance of Pregnancy Research Epidemiology Tweets by UPennCCEB About Us To understand health and disease today, we need new thinking and novel science —the kind we create when multiple disciplines work together from the ground up. That is why this department has put forward a bold vision in population-health science: a single academic home for biostatistics, epidemiology and informatics. LEARN MORE ABOUT US Contact Us © 2021 Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania. All rights reserved. | Disclaimer Search Search Follow Us Log in