Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Children’s Environmental Health Home About Research Education & Training People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Trainees Key Partners Staff Past Trainees News Site Navigation Home About Vision & Mission Contact Career Opportunites Research Interventions to Reduce Chemical Exposures Health Effects of Environmental Exposures Modifiable Determinants of Environmental Exposures Molecular Epidemiology of Environmental Exposures Education & Training CCEH Seminar Series EH Courses at Brown People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Trainees Key Partners Staff Past Trainees News Affiliated Faculty David Savitz – A leading expert on studies of pregnancy outcomes, including potential risks of environmental exposures. Teaches courses at the School of Public Health in epidemiologic methods and perinatal epidemiology. George Papandonatos – A biostatistician with expertise applying advanced biostatistical techniques to study chemical mixtures, correct for exposure measurement error, and conduct longitudinal data analysis. Kurt Pennell – An expert in the field of exposomics, ground water remediation, and engineered nanomaterial fate and transport. Dr. Pennel’s state of the art lab is capable of measuring environmental pollutants is soil, water, food, and biospecimens. Karl Kelsey - A board-certified occupational physician who pioneered the development of molecular cancer epidemiology and epigenomics. His research uses epigenomic methods to develop immunomethylomics, a new field applying immune biomarkers to epidemiology. Kim Boekelheide – Focuses on examining molecular mechanisms that environmental toxicants induce testicular injury. His projects include in vitro approaches to safety assessment, sperm molecular biomarkers of testicular injury, and xenotransplantation approaches for toxicity testing. Daniel Spade – His research focuses on mechanisms of male reproductive toxicity. The goal of this work is to better understand the impacts of environmental chemicals and pharmaceuticals on fetal testis development and reproductive health in later life. Jessica Plavicki - Currently using zebrafish to study CNS angiogenesis and blood brain barrier development in order to assess the impact of chemical exposures and genetic mutations on cerebral vascular development and brain health. Tongzhang Zheng - Currently working with three large studies in China – the Jingchuan Metal Exposure Cohort Study, a cohort study of the Kailuan Coal industry, and a pregnancy and birth cohort study in Wuhan. Melissa Clark – A survey methodologist studying health services utilization and vulnerable populations. She is also one of the co-PIs of the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute cohorts. Blanche C. Ip - Assistant Professor (Research) in Molecular Pharmacology, Physiology and Biotechnology at Brown University with research interests in tissue engineering, as well as the physiology of hepatic and cardiovascular diseases. In particular, Dr. Ip is interested in developing in vitro tissues and biomaterials for transplantation and tissue repair, as well as human organoid platforms that mimic the physiology of disease, toxicology, and development. People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Trainees Key Partners Staff Past Trainees Center for Children’s Environmental Health Center for Children’s Environmental Health Brown University Box G-S121-2 121 South Main Street Room 213 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5397 Email Joseph_Braun_[email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top