Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Sexual Harassment Policies Get Help Get Help Medical care Confidential help Academic and campus help Help for faculty and staff How faculty and staff can help students Report Report Report to police Report to SMU Report anonymously Report retaliation Protective orders Learn More Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Get involved Get involved Education and prevention Awareness tips Request a presentation Resources ☰ Sexual Harassment Learn More SMU Task Force The President's Task Force on Sexual Misconduct Policies and Procedures SMU President R. Gerald Turner created the Task Force on Sexual Misconduct Policies and Procedures on September 28, 2012, to re-examine the University’s procedures and policies related to sexual misconduct. The Task Force reviewed benchmark practices nationwide and heard perspectives of local and national experts. The examination took into account adherence to state and federal laws, especially Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which requires colleges and universities to investigate and provide internal grievance procedures for such allegations. The Task Force made 41 recommendations, all of which were accepted by President Turner in May 2013. The recommendations address areas including sexual misconduct reporting procedures, Title IX requirements, the student conduct process, education programs for students, enhanced training for staff and communications to parents. SMU has implemented all of the Task Force's recommendations. The staff, faculty, students and administrators serving on the Task Force Implementation Group continue to coordinate and monitor the University's efforts to combat sexual misconduct. The Implementation Group includes students, faculty members, the Title IX Coordinator and representatives of SMU Police, Counseling Services, the Health Center, Dean of Student Life Office, Student Advocacy and Support, the Women & LGBT Center, Chaplain's Office, and Residence Life and Student Housing. Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Resources In case of emergency or for criminal reporting, please call SMU Police, 214-768-3333, or pick up a blue-light phone on campus. Confidential Resources SMU Counseling Services 214-768-2277 SMU Chaplain’s Office 214-768-4502 Additional SMU resources SMU Title IX Coordinator (for internal grievance information and reporting) 214-768-3601 Office of Student Advocacy & Support 214-768-4512 Anonymous reporting 214-768-2TIP (2847) Community resources Dallas Area Rape Crisis Center (DARCC) 972-641-7273 Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) Program 214-345-6203 Learn more about resources. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share