Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home About : News & Events News & Events Latest News May 11, 2022 2022 Open House Award Winners April 12, 2022 iSchool Inclusion Institute (i3) Announces Move to the Texas iSchool Feb. 15, 2022 Texas iSchool Welcomes First Assistant Dean for DEI, Dr. Edgar Gómez-Cruz Dec. 1, 2021 iSchool Partners with the Institute of Certified Records Managers to Fast Track Graduates’ Certification More News See all news Upcoming Events Friday June 24 Prospective Student Online Information Session 1 to 2 p.m. Zoom link will be provided via email Join the iSchool Undergraduate Student Services to learn more about the new Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Arts major in Informatics. Event Details Friday July 8 Prospective Student Online Information Session 1 to 2 p.m. Zoom link will be provided via email Join the iSchool Undergraduate Student Services to learn more about the new Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Arts major in Informatics. Event Details Friday Aug. 12 Prospective Student Online Information Session 1 to 2 p.m. Zoom link will be provided via email Join the iSchool Undergraduate Student Services to learn more about the new Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Arts major in Informatics. Event Details All Events Connect Publicize an iSchool Event Tweets School of Information - UT Austin UTiSchool Congratulations, graduating iSchoolers! We are so proud of all you've accomplished during your time at the iSchool.… https://t.co/bCfjgZb8k1 1 week ago reply2 retweet star School of Information - UT Austin UTiSchool We are excited to celebrate our graduating iSchool students tomorrow. Congratulations, class of 2022! 🤘… https://t.co/Y8rSsNO83K 1 week ago reply2 retweet star School of Information - UT Austin UTiSchool The late civil rights leader and philanthropist Ada Anderson will be among the thousands of graduates who will be h… https://t.co/VKycrmnUzu 2 weeks ago reply2 retweet star School of Information - UT Austin UTiSchool Congratulations to @jr_bautista_15, @cbtrace, @jameshodges_, and master's student Liz Bender! https://t.co/H5V6ucEtQU 2 weeks ago reply2 retweet star School of Information - UT Austin UTiSchool Congratulations to our 2022 Open House Award winners! - Dean’s Choice Award Winner: Vanesa Ayon - Diversity & Inclu… https://t.co/7JYka4zRow 2 weeks ago reply2 retweet star UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022