Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The Office of the Provost Show/Hide About People Communications Committees & Reports Policies & Procedures Initiatives & Resources Related Areas About About the Provost Richard M. Locke is the Schreiber Family Professor of Political Science and International and Public Affairs and Brown University’s 13th provost. As the University's chief academic officer and chief budget officer, Locke works closely with the president to advance the University’s mission of teaching, research and service. The provost is responsible for ensuring academic excellence and sound budgetary practices across the full range of programs in academic departments, research centers, and interdisciplinary institutes, and for overseeing the operations of the College, Graduate School, Warren Alpert Medical School, School of Public Health, School of Engineering and School of Professional Studies. As provost, Locke's priorities are to advance academic excellence, build community and ensure fiscal sustainability. More about Richard M. Locke Curriculum Vitae (PDF) About the Office of the Provost The provost works in close collaboration with the University’s academic leadership, and with the following senior officers reporting to him: the dean of the faculty, dean of the College, dean of the Graduate School, dean of medicine and biological sciences, dean of the School of Public Health, dean of the School of Engineering, dean of the School for Professional Studies, dean of the Division of Pre-College and Undergraduate Summer programs, vice president for research, the University librarian, chief digital officer and chief information officer, dean of admission, and the dean of financial aid. (see Organizational Chart.) The provost chairs the Academic Priorities Committee (APC), which provides oversight of academic programs and advises on strategic priorities, and the University Resource Council (URC), which is responsible for recommending to the president the annual capital and operating budget needed toachieve overall University goals responsibly and sustainably. Priorities Academic Excellence Building Community Financial Sustainability Organizational Chart View the Provost's administrative organizational chart. (PDF) Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Provost Office of the Provost Brown University Box 1862 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2706 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat