Skip to content iastate.edu Index Directory Maps Safety Sign ons Toggle Navigation HOME ACADEMICS Undergraduate Programs Masters Programs PhD Program Faculty Research UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS Majors, Minors and Certificates Transfer Students Scholarships Undergraduate Student Services Undergraduate Career Services International Programs Writing & Speaking Center Student Organizations Hire an Ivy Graduate Start Something GRADUATE STUDENTS Masters Programs MBA Programs PhD Program Graduate Student Services Graduate Career Services Hire an Ivy Graduate Start Something ABOUT Ivy College of Business College Leadership Faculty & Staff Directory Rankings Alumni & Friends Upcoming Events Feature Stories APPLY SEARCH Loading... Master of Business Analyticsfritzn2022-05-03T11:56:48-05:00 Project Description Master of Business Analytics Whether you’re interested in fraud detection, risk management, or process improvement, our master of business analytics program will give you the tools you need to sort big data. This cross-discipline program is customizable and convenient and will prepare you for the future. There are two pathways available for completing this program. Designed for working professionals, our 100% online program will give you the skills to advance your career and the flexibility to take courses from anywhere. The Business Analytics program also offers a full-time, on-campus option to meet the needs of recent undergraduates and experienced professionals. The master of business analytics program features: customizable online content — focus your study on courses related to your field internationally known faculty a capstone project based on your interests networking and volunteer opportunities at the largest business analytics symposium in the Midwest Degree Requirements Sample Program Course Offerings FAQs AT A GLANCE PROGRAM TUITION AND FEES $722/credit hour + fees* PREFERRED APPLICATION DEADLINE May 1 (summer), July 1 (fall), November 1 (spring) GMAT/GRE Not required FORMAT Online or on-campus LENGTH 30 credits, 15 months LOCATION Online or in Ames, IA WHAT TO DO NEXT Request Information × We're here to help MA Request Information Name First Last Email Phone Which Masters program are you interested in? MACC MBAN MFIN MRED MSIS MHAO Are you an international student? Yes No CAPTCHA When you click submit above, a confirmation of your submission will be sent to the email address you provide. If you do not see a copy, check your spam folder or feel free to contact us at busgrad@iastate.edu Close START MY APPLICATION WATCH A WEBINAR Meet Staci Nevinski After starting her own accounting business, Staci Nevinski realized her clients needed more than traditional bookkeeping. Nevinski likes creating systems that better organize and use data, so it’s not surprising she gravitated towards business analytics. To meet the needs of her clients, Nevinski decided to augment her education by doing a deep dive into data with adding a master of business analytics (MBAN) degree. Another motivation for Nevinski was figuring out how her education will directly benefit her clients. “I kept running into the need to provide greater analysis instead of just bookkeeping and basic reports,” Nevinski said. “The accounting field is being asked to do more real-time forecasting and feedback for business decisions.” But it’s not just the coursework that makes a difference. For Nevinski, her classmates are also a big benefit. The collaboration with her team has been an important part of the program because it’s an opportunity to work with people who operate differently from me towards a common goal. When I think about big data, I think of large companies. I’m really interested in how these big concepts can benefit small businesses. I’ve always gravitated toward playing with data. It’s insightful to work with the algorithms we’re learning in the master of business analytics program.” Staci Nevinski Current Student Graduate Assistant Ivy Writing and Speaking Center Explore Business Analytics The master of business analytics program, offered online and in-person, is tailored to the needs of working professionals and undergraduates looking to get ahead. Our curriculum focuses on critical tools like analytics leadership, data wrangling and analytics, data visualization and communication, and problem solving — taught through hands-on exercises and case studies. Customize your degree by taking courses from across campus. This interdisciplinary program draws from several of Iowa State University’s leading education fields in science and technology, including: computer science electrical engineering computer engineering statistics industrial engineering manufacturing system engineering Explore MBAN Apply Today Ivy Business Analytics students can begin the program in the fall, spring, or summer term. Students are admitted year-round. Preferred application deadlines are May 1 for summer, July 1 for fall, and November 1 for spring. International students who currently reside outside the U.S. are encouraged to apply at least three months prior to the start of the semester if seeking the on-campus option. The following application materials are required: resume college transcripts two letters of recommendation statement of purpose TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo English score for non-native English speakers declare on-campus or distance program on application Once the application is complete, it will be reviewed. You may be contacted to schedule an interview as part of the admissions process. Please note: Graduate students whose native language is not English and who do not have a degree from Iowa State University, must take the English Placement Test at the beginning for their first semester of enrollment. The test is administered by the Department of English. It must be taken in addition to the Test of English as a Foreign Language), which is taken as a part of the admissions process. A student who does not pass this examination is required to take specific courses in the English 99/101 series. This coursework must be completed no later than the semester BEFORE you graduate. Apply Ivy College of Business 2200 Gerdin 2167 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2027 CONTACT IVY VISITORS About Ivy Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events AACSB Accredited Rankings Learning Goals Facilities Alumni & Friends FOR COMPANIES Recruit a Student Post a Job CyBiz Lab Pappajohn Center SBDC Faculty Research Business Career Services Employer Services FACULTY & STAFF Iowa State Sign ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Marketing Project Request Faculty Research Awards Faculty & Staff Resources Ivy A-Z Index CURRENT STUDENTS Iowa State Signs ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Academic Advising Business Career Services Student Services Student Organizations CyHire Start Something FUTURE STUDENTS About Ivy Undergraduate Programs Master’s Programs MBA Programs PHD Programs International Programs Transfer Students Facilities Apply Ivy College of Business 2200 Gerdin 2167 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2027 CONTACT IVY VISITORS About Ivy Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events AACSB Accredited Rankings Learning Goals Facilities Alumni & Friends FOR COMPANIES Recruit a Student Post a Job CyBiz Lab Pappajohn Center SBDC Faculty Research Business Career Services Employer Services FACULTY & STAFF Iowa State Sign ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Marketing Project Request Faculty Research Awards Faculty & Staff Resources Ivy A-Z Index CURRENT STUDENTS Iowa State Signs ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Academic Advising Business Career Services Student Services Student Organizations CyHire Start Something FUTURE STUDENTS About Ivy Undergraduate Programs Master’s Programs MBA Programs PHD Programs International Programs Transfer Students Facilities Apply Copyright © 2022 | Iowa State University – Ivy College of Business | All rights reserved | Non-discrimination Policy | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility Policy | Remote Support | Iowa State Sign ons | Iowa State A-Z Index | Media Credits × Page load link Go to Top