Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences Scandinavian Studies 318 Raitt Hall 206-543-0645 Website Faculty Website uwscand@uw.edu Scandinavian studies is concerned with the study of languages, literature, history, politics, and cultures of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, and the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Emphasis is placed both on contemporary literature and culture and on historical development. Although most courses designed for majors are taught in the original languages, a broad spectrum of courses designed primarily for nonmajors is offered in English. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Danish Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Danish Program of Study: Major: Finnish Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Finnish Program of Study: Major: Norwegian Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Norwegian Program of Study: Major: Scandinavian Area Studies Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Scandinavian Area Studies Program of Study: Major: Swedish Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Swedish Program of Study: Minor: Baltic Studies Minor in Baltic Studies Program of Study: Minor: Danish Minor in Danish Program of Study: Minor: Estonian Minor in Estonian Program of Study: Minor: Finnish Minor in Finnish Program of Study: Minor: Latvian Minor in Latvian Program of Study: Minor: Lithuanian Minor in Lithuanian Program of Study: Minor: Norwegian Minor in Norwegian Program of Study: Minor: Scandinavian Area Studies Minor in Scandinavian Area Studies Program of Study: Minor: Swedish Minor in Swedish Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian) Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian: Scandinavian Languages And Literatures) Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian: Textual Studies) Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian:Theory And Criticism) Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Scandinavian) Master Of Arts (Scandinavian: Scandinavian Area Studies) Master Of Arts (Scandinavian: Scandinavian Languages And Literatures) Undergraduate Programs Scandinavian Studies 305X Raitt Hall kimkraft@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Danish Program Overview A major in Danish fosters excellent linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Danish studies can serve as a platform from which to explore art, literature and philosophy, history and politics, the environment, social democracy, and women’s and gender studies. Students gain advanced linguistic proficiency in Danish, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Denmark, Scandinavia and the Baltic. Denmark is the birthplace of world famous philosophers and writers, and a leader in international business and culture. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Danish Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Danish Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Danish Credential Overview By earning a B.A. in Danish, a student acquires advanced linguistic proficiency in Danish, excellent knowledge of Denmark in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills. Completion Requirements 65 credits First- and second-year courses in Danish language (30 credits) Upper-division courses in Danish language. See department for list of approved courses. (10 credits) Upper-division SCAND courses. See department for list of approved courses. (20 credits) SCAND 498 (5 credits) Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Finnish Program Overview A B.A. in Finnish Studies opens doors in architecture, technology, arts and culture, linguistics, education and business by fostering strong linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Students gain advanced linguistic proficiency in Finnish, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Finland, Scandinavia and the Baltic. This innovative country is a center of business, education, and culture in Europe, and a gateway to Russia. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Finnish Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Finnish Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Finnish Credential Overview By earning a B.A. in Finnish, a student acquires advanced linguistic proficiency in Finnish, excellent knowledge of Finland in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills. Completion Requirements 65 credits First- and second-year courses in Finnish language (30 credits) Upper-division courses in Finnish language. See department for list of approved courses. (10 credits) Upper-division SCAND courses. See department for list of approved courses. (20 credits) SCAND 498 (5 credits) Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Norwegian Program Overview A Bachelor of Arts in Norwegian Studies fosters strong linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Norwegian studies can serve as a platform from which to explore art, literature and philosophy, history and politics, the environment, social democracy, and women’s and gender studies. Students gain advanced linguistic proficiency in Norwegian, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Norway, Scandinavia and the Baltic. Norway is the birthplace of world famous modern artists and a leader in peace and conflict resolution and environmental philosophy. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Norwegian Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Norwegian Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Norwegian Credential Overview By earning a B.A. in Norwegian, a student acquires advanced linguistic proficiency in Norwegian, excellent knowledge of Norway in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills. Completion Requirements 65 credits First- and second-year courses in Norwegian language (30 credits) Upper-division courses in Norwegian language. See department for list of approved courses. (10 credits) Upper-division SCAND courses. See department for list of approved courses. (20 credits) SCAND 498 (5 credits) Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Scandinavian Area Studies Program Overview A Bachelor of Arts in Scandinavian Area Studies fosters advanced knowledge of the culture, politics, and history of Scandinavia. It also gives strong analytical, and communication skills Scandinavian Area Studies can serve as a platform from which to explore politics, history, the environment, social democracy, and women’s and gender studies. Students gain intermediate linguistic proficiency in a Scandinavian or Baltic language, or Finnish. Scandinavia is the birthplace of world famous modern artists, Social democracy, and innovative economic and cultural practices and institutions, and is a global leader in peacemaking, environmentalism, and gender equality. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Scandinavian Area Studies Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Danish, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, Lithuanian, Norwegian, or Swedish. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Scandinavian Area Studies Credential Overview By earning a B.A. in Scandinavian Area Studies, students acquire intermediate linguistic skill in Finnish, a Baltic language, or a Scandinavian language, as well as strong knowledge of an important economic and political region of northern Europe. It prepares students for international careers, as well as giving strong analytical and communication skills. Completion Requirements 65 credits First- and second-year courses in target Scandinavian or Baltic language (DANISH/ESTO/FINN/LATV/LITH/NORW/SWED) (30 credits) Upper-division SCAND courses. See department for list of approved courses. (30 credits) SCAND 498 (5 credits) Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Swedish Program Overview A B.A. in Swedish fosters strong linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Swedish studies can serve as a platform from which to explore art, literature and philosophy, history and politics, the environment, social democracy, and women’s and gender studies. Students gain advanced linguistic proficiency in Sweden, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Sweden, Scandinavia and the Baltic. Sweden is the birthplace of world famous modern artists, Social democracy, and innovative economic and cultural practices and institutions. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Swedish Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Swedish Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Swedish Credential Overview By earning a B.A. in Swedish, a student acquires advanced linguistic proficiency in Swedish, excellent knowledge of Sweden in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills. Completion Requirements 65 credits First- and second-year courses in Swedish language (30 credits) Upper-division courses in Swedish language. See department for list of approved courses. (10 credits) Upper-division SCAND courses. See department for list of approved courses. (20 credits) SCAND 498 (5 credits) Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Baltic Studies Program Overview A minor in Baltic Studies focuses on Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania (the Baltic countries), including their current politics, history and culture (literature, film, art and music). Introductory competence in one of the three languages (Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian) adds deeper understanding of European nations and identities. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Baltic Studies Minor in Baltic Studies Credential Overview Students with a minor in Baltic Studies demonstrate excellent knowledge of three European Union countries and their people. They can communicate in one of the three national languages – Estonian, Latvian or Lithuanian. To their major degree they add a global perspective, and specialized knowledge about a complex region rich with creative arts and innovative technology. Completion Requirements 35 credits 15 credits of first year Estonian, Latvian, or Lithuanian 20 credits of upper-division Scandinavian coursework, including at least one Baltic studies course from the following: SCAND 344, SCAND 345, SCAND 454, SCAND 455 Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Estonian, Latvian, or Lithuanian beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Danish Program Overview A minor in Danish fosters strong linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Danish studies can serve as a platform from which to explore art, literature and philosophy, history and politics, the environment, social democracy, and women’s and gender studies. Students gain intermediate linguistic proficiency in Danish, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Denmark, Scandinavia and the Baltic. Denmark is the birthplace of world famous philosophers and writers, and a leader in international business and culture. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Danish Minor in Danish Credential Overview By earning a minor in Danish, a student acquires intermediate linguistic proficiency in Danish, excellent knowledge of Denmark in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills. Completion Requirements 35 credits 15 credits of first year Danish 15 credits of second year Danish 5 credits of upper-division Scandinavian coursework or 5 credits of an upper-division language course Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Danish beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Estonian Program Overview A minor in Estonian studies focuses on the north European country, Estonia, and its history, current politics, and culture (literature, film, art and music). Intermediate competence in the Estonian language adds deeper understanding of a country that is today a global leader in innovative information technology as well as music and literary arts, and a centuries-old meeting point of civilizations. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Estonian Minor in Estonian Credential Overview Students with a minor in Estonian Studies demonstrate excellent knowledge of this European country and its people. They can communicate in the Estonian language. To their major degree they add a global perspective, with specialized knowledge about a country rich in creative arts and innovative technology. Completion Requirements 35 credits 15 credits of first year Estonian 15 credits of second year Estonian 5 credits of Baltic studies coursework (SCAND 344, SCAND 345, SCAND 454, or SCAND 455), or 5 credits of an upper-division language course. Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Estonian beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Finnish Program Overview A minor in Finnish Studies opens doors in architecture, technology, arts and culture, linguistics, education and business by fostering strong linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Students gain intermediate linguistic proficiency in Finnish, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Finland, Scandinavia and the Baltic. This innovative country is a center of business, education, and culture in Europe, and a gateway to Russia. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Finnish Minor in Finnish Credential Overview By earning a minor in Finnish, a student acquires intermediate linguistic proficiency in Finnish, strong knowledge of Finland in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills. Completion Requirements 35 credits 15 credits of first year Finnish 15 credits of second year Finnish 5 credits of upper-division Scandinavian coursework or 5 credits of an upper-division language course Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Finnish beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Latvian Program Overview A minor in Latvian studies focuses on the north European country, Latvia, and its history, current politics, and culture (literature, film, art and music). Intermediate competence in the Latvian language adds deeper understanding of a country that is today a global leader in innovative technology as well as music and literary arts, and a centuries-old meeting point of civilizations. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Latvian Minor in Latvian Credential Overview Students with a minor in Latvian Studies demonstrate excellent knowledge of this European country and its people. They can communicate in the Latvian language. To their major degree, they add a global perspective, with specialized knowledge about a country rich in creative arts and innovative technology. Completion Requirements 35 credits 15 credits of first year Latvian 15 credits of second year Latvian 5 credits of Baltic studies coursework (SCAND 344, SCAND 345, SCAND 454, or SCAND 455), or 5 credits of an upper-division language course. Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Latvian beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Lithuanian Program Overview A minor in Lithuanian studies focuses on the north European country, Lithuania, and its history, current politics, and culture (literature, film, art and music). Intermediate competence in the Lithuanian language adds deeper understanding of a country that is today a global leader in innovative technology as well as music and literary arts, and a centuries-old meeting point of civilizations. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Lithuanian Minor in Lithuanian Credential Overview Students with a minor in Lithuanian Studies demonstrate excellent knowledge of this European country and its people. They can communicate in the Lithuanian language. To their major degree, they add a global perspective, with specialized knowledge about a country rich in creative arts and innovative technology. Completion Requirements 35 credits 15 credits of first year Lithuanian 15 credits of second year Lithuanian 5 credits of Baltic studies coursework (SCAND 344, SCAND 345, SCAND 454, or SCAND 455), or 5 credits of an upper-division language course. Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Lithuanian beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Norwegian Program Overview A minor in Norwegian Studies fosters strong linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Norwegian studies can serve as a platform from which to explore art, literature and philosophy, history and politics, the environment, social democracy, and women’s and gender studies. Students gain advanced linguistic proficiency in Norwegian, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Norway, Scandinavia and the Baltic. Norway is the birthplace of world famous modern artists and a leader in peace and conflict resolution and environmental philosophy. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Norwegian Minor in Norwegian Credential Overview By earning a minor in Norwegian, a student acquires intermediate linguistic proficiency in Norwegian, strong knowledge of Norway in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills. Completion Requirements 35 credits 15 credits of first year Norwegian 15 credits of second year Norwegian 5 credits of upper-division Scandinavian coursework or 5 credits of an upper-division language course Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Norwegian beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Scandinavian Area Studies Program Overview The minor in Scandinavian Area Studies fosters advanced knowledge of the culture, politics, and history of Scandinavia. It also gives strong analytical, and communication skills Scandinavian Area Studies can serve as a platform from which to explore politics, history, the environment, social democracy, and women’s and gender studies. Students gain intermediate linguistic proficiency in a Scandinavian or Baltic language, or Finnish. Scandinavia is the birthplace of world famous modern artists, Social democracy, and innovative economic and cultural practices and institutions, and is a global leader in peacemaking, environmentalism, and gender equality. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Scandinavian Area Studies Minor in Scandinavian Area Studies Credential Overview By earning a minor in Scandinavian Area Studies, students acquire linguistic skill in Finnish, a Baltic language, or a Scandinavian language, as well as good knowledge of an important economic and political region of northern Europe. The minor gives good background for international careers, as well as giving strong analytical and communication skills. Completion Requirements 35 credits 15 credits of first year Danish, Finnish, Norwegian, or Swedish 20 credits of upper-division Scandinavian coursework Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Danish, Finnish, Norwegian, or Swedish beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Swedish Program Overview A minor in Swedish fosters strong linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Swedish studies can serve as a platform from which to explore art, literature and philosophy, history and politics, the environment, social democracy, and women’s and gender studies. Students gain advanced linguistic proficiency in Sweden, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Sweden, Scandinavia and the Baltic. Sweden is the birthplace of world famous modern artists, Social democracy, and innovative economic and cultural practices and institutions. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Swedish Minor in Swedish Credential Overview By earning a minor in Swedish, a student acquires intermediate linguistic proficiency in Swedish, excellent knowledge of Sweden in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills. Completion Requirements 35 credits 15 credits of first year Swedish 15 credits of second year Swedish 5 credits of upper-division Scandinavian coursework or 5 credits of an upper-division language course Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Swedish beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework. Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: Graduates of the Department of Scandinavian Studies have an advanced level of proficiency in a Scandinavian, Fenno-Ugric, or Baltic language. They can talk about a wide range of concrete topics in a sustained conversation and have the ability to interpret and write about literary texts, non-fiction, and other media. Graduates also have knowledge of major figures, ideas, and institutions in Baltic or Nordic culture, history, literature, and politics that enriches a global perspective. They have the ability to research and synthesize source material in the target language and can produce a scholarly essay in English on a topic within their area of concentration. Graduates of the Scandinavian studies program have the qualifications to embark on careers that require skills in the interpretation of information in various media, critical analysis, and effective communication and to continue in graduate programs and professional schools that value an international perspective. Instructional and Research Facilities: None Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Internships at museums or with Scandinavian businesses are possible. Exchange program opportunities also exist. Department Scholarships: The department offers several scholarships for students of Danish, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, Lithuanian, Norwegian, and Swedish. Student Organizations/Associations: the Danish Club, the Norwegian Club, the Swedish Club, and the Finnish Club. Graduate Programs Scandinavian Studies Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian: Scandinavian Languages And Literatures) Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian: Textual Studies) Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian:Theory And Criticism) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian: Scandinavian Languages And Literatures) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian: Textual Studies) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian:Theory And Criticism) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Scandinavian) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Arts (Scandinavian: Scandinavian Area Studies) Master Of Arts (Scandinavian: Scandinavian Languages And Literatures) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts (Scandinavian: Scandinavian Area Studies) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Arts (Scandinavian: Scandinavian Languages And Literatures) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA