Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Information Technology iTuffy iTuffy App YOUR 24/7 RESOURCE FOR CSUF The iTuffy Chatbot serves as your 24/7 resource to campus information. Find iTuffy in the Apple App Store and Google Play Store. iTuffy can also be accessed via Amazon Alexa’s across the campus. Just ask Alexa to load iTuffy and ask your question! Ask iTuffy Any Question you have about CSUF! You can try the iTuffy Chatbot in the web agent to the right or on any of the sites you see the Ask iTuffy tab in the bottom right-hand corner! For personalized questions, press the hamburger menu in the top left-hand corner and sign in using your portal information! WITH THE NEW ITUFFY MOBILE APP, YOU CAN NOW: View parking availability and get directions to the nearest lot Check your class and finals schedule Look up your Campus-Wide ID (CWID) Get directions and find operating hours for campus offices and services Learn about upcoming events Search the campus directory FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Can I come on campus? What is my CWID? Where is the TSU? How do I drop a class? What is my next class? How do I contact Financial Aid? This page uses Ajax which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This site is maintained by Division of Information Technology. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ituffy@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.