Skip to Content Industry & Foundation Relations Main menu Home Focus Areas Research Collaboration Examples Resources News & Events About IFR IFR Team Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Close Industry & Foundation Relations Industry & Foundation Relations Menu Main menu Home Focus Areas Research Collaboration Examples Resources News & Events About IFR IFR Team Mobile menu Home Focus Areas Research Collaboration Examples Resources News & Events About IFR IFR Team Welcome to Industry & Foundation Relations at CU Boulder. Welcome to Industry & Foundation Relations at CU Boulder. Let's start a conversation. Whether your company is seeking an academic partner, new hires, employee education, and training, or cultivating new product ideas, we'll help you navigate our campus's vast array of resources to find the right partner—and establish the powerful connections that will spark new economic opportunities. Industry & Foundation Relations at CU Boulder connects local, national, and international companies to the people, services, projects, and resources they need to support business growth and development. ifr@colorado.edu 303-735-8053 Ways to Engage Sponsored Research Explore fundamental challenges in a technical area, identify solutions to real-world challenges or improve an existing technology with us. Joint Proposals Federal and state funding opportunities frequently encourage joint proposals from universities and industry. We work with commercial partners and other universities to develop competitive responses. Student Projects Sponsoring student projects gives you the opportunity to meet and mentor students in your company's field and evaluate them as potential employees. IP rights are generally assigned to the sponsoring company. Permanent Employment Establish your brand on campus. Our job posting system, on-campus interviewing and resume referral services can connect you with highly-qualified students and alumni. Student Employment Employ undergraduate, graduate and doctoral students (even outside their field of study) as they pursue their academic career. We can offer recruitment and management tips. Internships Whether you're interested in contracting an intern for a specified period of time, or looking to interact with potential employees and their faculty advisors, we'll manage the details. Philanthropy Every year, CU Boulder students and faculty receive vital corporate and foundation support for scholarships, faculty research, event sponsorships and other critical areas. Industry Newsletter Get a snapshot of the latest CU Boulder research news, collaborations, events and engagement opportunities. IFR Team With considerable experience communicating with industry and foundation partners, see where our team's expertise can make your involvement a perfect match. Research & Creative Work 2020-21 Explore the depth and range in innovation, research, scholarship and creative work that set CU Boulder apart. Latest News Five Questions with Heidi VanGenderen, Co-Chair of the Right Here Right Now Global Climate Summit We pose five questions to another co-chair of the Right Here, Right Now Global Climate... Read more Climate justice advocate Mary Robinson tapped for keynote at inaugural climate summit Mary Robinson, one of the world’s most respected advocates for climate justice and the former... Read more Crown gift to establish a unique wellness research institute at CU Boulder The Renée Crown Wellness Institute takes the approach of research-practice partnerships, in which researchers, families,... Read more More News & Events Footer menu Our Team Industry & Foundation Relations 4845 Pearl East Circle Suite 300, UCB 588 Boulder, Colorado 80309 303.735.8053 ifr@colorado.edu University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Privacy • Legal & Trademarks • Campus Map Return to the top of the page