Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search FAQ on Admission FAQ on Admission Q: Can I apply to both GT-Atlanta and GT-Shenzhen? A: Yes. Please note you can apply to the same program in different campuses. Also, you can apply to different programs in different campuses. With the first application, create a user ID and password. Once you complete it, you may return to https://gradapp.gatech.edu/apply/ and log in as a Returning User. To submit an entirely new application using the same user ID and password created for the original. Please note that a nonrefundable application fee is required for each application. Q: I have previously applied to GT-Atlanta and just learned about the GT-Shenzhen program. Can I transfer my application from GT-Atlanta to GT-Shenzhen? A: For switching between different campuses of the same program, please see the instructions below: -If you had applied to GT-Atlanta MSECE, but want to switch to GT-Shenzhen MSECE, please email gtshenzhen@nullece.gatech.edu and copy to ychen3152@nullgatech.edu. -If you had applied to GT-Atlanta MSA, but want to switch to GT-Shenzhen MSA, please email gtshenzhen-msa@nullisye.gatech.edu and copy to wlin328@nullgatech.edu. -If you had applied to GT-Atlanta MSENVE, but want to switch to GT-Shenzhen MSENVE, please email gtshenzhen@nullce.gatech.edu and copy to qhuang95@nullgatech.edu. The email should include your first name, last name, GTID, your planned enrollment term for GT-Shenzhen (Spring or Fall), and your application reference number, we will then coordinate the transfer of your application. -If you had applied to GT-Atlanta MSCS, but want to switch to GT-Shenzhen MSCS, you will need to complete a new online application and pay another online application fee.We cannot change your application between different majors and different campuses. Applicants must complete a new online application with the correct major of interest, select the correct campus, and pay another online application fee. We can retrieve the TOEFL, GRE scores, and transcripts from your first application; therefore, you only need to contact ETS for one set of scores and submit one set of transcripts. For example, if you had applied to GT-Atlanta Computer Science (in the College of Computing), you will need to complete a new online application to GT-Shenzhen. Q: How should I estimate my GPA since my university does not report course performance using the letter grade basis? A: Unless your university specifies a different conversation table on your transcript, you can use the following conversion rule. On a 100-point scale, Score of 85-100: grade=A (4.0 point); Score of 75-84: grade=B (3.0 point); Score of 60-74: grade=C (2.0 point); Score of 0-59: grade=F (0 point). Note: There is not a D grade in the above conversion. Here is an explanation on how to calculate your GPA. Q: The Registrar’s Office at my university offers two options for transcripts: one that does not display the GPA, one that does. Which option should I take? A: Take the option that does NOT display the GPA. We will calculate your GPA “in-house” at Georgia Tech. Most Chinese universities do not take into account all courses in the GPA calculation (such as omitting the elective courses), so the GPA shown on the transcript is usually different from the GPA that Georgia Tech would arrive at. Georgia Tech counts all courses shown on the transcripts, except for pass/fail courses, in the GPA calculation. Q: The GPA entered for me in the OSCAR system is lower than what my university said my GPA is. Could you please use the GPA as determined by my university? A: Georgia Tech evaluates all international transcripts in-house. We use a 4.0 scale whereas your university may use a different scale. If using the conversion method as described above, you arrive at a very different GPA, you can let us know. Q: My undergraduate university has a reputation for grading harshly. Do you use different grade conversion tables for different universities? A: Unless your university specifies a different conversion table on the transcript, Georgia Tech uses the grade conversion method described above for Chinese university transcripts. Q: My university gives GPA on the 3.3 point basis, and mine is 2.7. Should I enter 2.7 as my current GPA? A: Please use the guideline described above to re-calculate your GPA on the 4.0 basis and supply with your online GT application. The GT Graduate Admissions Office will calculate again to verify your GPA once they receive the official transcripts. Q: Do you include elective courses in the GPA calculation? A: Except for courses that are graded on the pass/fail basis, all other courses (including elective courses) shown on your transcript are included in the GPA calculation. Q: My university reports some of our grades on the letter grade basis. Do you convert those letter grades? A: If your university uses the A, B, C, D, F letter grade system, we will use those grades “as is” in calculating the GPA. If your university uses the A+, A, A-, B+, B, B-, C+, C, C-,D+, D, D-, F letter grade system, we will convert (A+, A-) to A, (B+, B-) to B, (C+, C-) to C, and (D+, D-) to D, before calculating the GPA. Q: I self-reported test scores; however, my application portal keeps showing “Awaiting” although my university is exempt from this requirement. What should I do? A: Self-reporting unnecessary test scores causes a pending state (awaiting official scores) in the application system. Please contact Graduate Studies with the error. Q: I took the TOEFL / GRE test in October and asked ETS to send my official score reports to GT. Now it is already January and it seems you still have not received my official score report. A: ETS sends TOEFL and GRE score reports electronically to GT which are then written into the GT applicant’s database. If there is any mismatch between the information you provided to GT and the information you provided to ETS (for example, the spelling of your name or the incorrect order of your first name vs. last name), the TOEFL or GRE scores will not be written to your record. If it has been a while since you have received ETS’ confirmation that they have sent your TOEFL or GRE score reports but those scores have not shown up on your GT record, you should search the Graduate Studies FAQs. If you cannot find an answer to your question, you may email grad.ask@nullgrad.gatech.edu your full name, GT ID#, appointment number and test date and request a manual search. You may upload a scanned copy of your TOEFL/GRE score report with this information. We cannot grant admission based on photocopy or scanned copy of TOEFL/GRE score reports. Q: My TOEFL / GRE score will expire after 1 year. Can I apply now for the next year (not this year’s) program? A: You can apply as soon as the GT online graduate application interface has included your targeted semester in the enrollment term pull-down menu. Make sure that you request for ETS to send your score reports to GT before they expire. Exam results more than two years old cannot be considered. Exam may be taken multiple times, with only the highest score being considered. Once the scores are received by GT and written into our database, we can then evaluate your application and make admission decisions. Q: My referee is having trouble accessing the online letter of recommendation. A: Please allow 24 hours before contacting Graduate Studies on this matter. The Graduate Studies Applicant FAQs will provide you more details. Q: Can my referee send you the recommendation letter by email or air mail? A: See the Graduate School’s answer here. Q: Should I submit ranking certificate to enhance my chance of gaining acceptance into the GT-Shenzhen program? A: For admission into the program, we mainly look at your GRE/TOEFL scores, GPA, recommendation letters and personal statement; ranking certificate is not required. If you wish to be considered for scholarships, you must submit original, official ranking certificate to our GT-Shenzhen office in Atlanta – see Contact Us page. Q: I am an applicant to the GT-Shenzhen program. I made a mistake on my application (applied for the wrong term / selected the PhD program instead of the MS program / swapped my first name and last name / …). Whom should I contact to get the problem resolved? A: To correct your submitted application, please write an email To: grad.ask@nullgrad.gatech.edu Subject: GT-Shenzhen Application – Your name and reference number Q: What is the likely process after I have applied? A: After we have received all required information on your application, we will be able to proceed with admission decisions. For those applicants that we have complete information on, we will strive to make admission decisions within 6-8 weeks after all application materials (online application, recommendation letters, official TOEFL/GRE scores) are received by Georgia Tech. You may email informing us that your application is complete. Q: How do I submit my response to a GT-Shenzhen admissions offer? A: Please complete the form on your application via GT online graduate application interface. Q: If I get accepted by GT-Shenzhen, can I turn down the application if my plans change? A: Yes, you have the option to accept or decline the GT-Shenzhen offer by a certain date. Q: I have encountered some application trouble or have other technical issues not covered by this FAQ. What should I do? A: Send an email to grad.ask@nullgrad.gatech.edu with your first name, last name, application reference number, telephone number(s) where you may be reached, and a detailed description of the problem that you have encountered, attaching a screen-shot if possible. Graduate Studies will then respond with an email or phone call. Please also copy to one of the following emails, depending on the program of interest. MS Analytics contact: gtshenzhen-msa@nullisye.gatech.edu MS CS contact: gtshenzhen@nullcc.gatech.edu MS ENVE contact: gtshenzhen@nullce.gatech.edu MS ECE contact: gtshenzhen@nullece.gatech.edu MS ID contact: gtshenzhen@nulldesign.gatech.edu FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology