Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Preparing for Your First Days in Providence Graduate School Skip to Navigation Preparing for Your First Days in Providence We know that arriving in a new country and new city can be daunting, so we've put together a list of resources to help you as you settle in during your first few weeks. COVID-19 regulations from the state of Rhode Island and Brown frequently change, so it’s important for you to review the following webpages before you arrive. Review the most current policies on the Healthy Brown website (please note that these guidelines may change frequently). Review the current Rhode Island guidelines on whether you need to test or quarantine, as you arrive in RI. If you are unvaccinated, read about your vaccination options. Follow any instructions, as you arrive, from your program, the Graduate School and the University. Table of Contents: Getting to Providence from the Airport Accommodations Grocery and Delivery Services Pharmacy Delivery Restaurant Delivery Household Necessities Health and Wellness Resources Finding Community Keep Yourself Entertained Getting to Providence from the Airport See the Getting to Brown information on the Global Brown Center for International Students webpage. Read more first-hand experience from our international graduate students in the Grad Assistant's Unofficial Guide to Brown. Accommodations (Short or Long Term) Tips from the 2021 Incoming Graduate Student Housing Webinar (from April 21, 2021) Local Hotels Woodspring Hotel (Extended stay hotel with kitchens) Homewood Suites (Extended stay hotel with kitchens) Auxiliary Housing (including the Application for Graduate Housing) Off-Campus Listing GSCBB listserv (student listserv managed by the Graduate Student Council) Groceries One of the first things you may do when you begin to settle in Providence is to identify where to buy your groceries. There are a lot of options, with some grocery stores accessible by bus, and some that deliver. The following grocery stores are accessible by RIPTA buses (RIPTA buses are free to all Brown ID card holders): East Side Marketplace: 92 Bus (165 Pittman St, East Side, Providence) Stop & Shop: 58 Bus (33 W River St, Providence) Aldi: 57 Bus (539 Smith St, Providence) PriceRite: 92 Bus (325 Valley Street, Providence) Urban Greens Co-Op Food Market: 31, 18, 19, and 17 Buses: (93 Cranston St, West Side, Providence) Market Basket: 35 Bus (1200 Newport Ave, East Providence/Attleboro) Good Fortune Asian Supermarket: 20 Bus and R Bus: 8-10 minute walk (101 Cadillac Dr, Providence) Walmart: 72 Bus (51 Silver Spring, Providence) Farm Fresh RI Farmer’s Market: 92 Bus and Little Rhody Bus: 5 minute walk (10 Sims Ave, Providence) The On-Call Shuttle will do pick-ups and drop-offs at a number of food and grocery stores, including East Side Marketplace, Stop & Shop, and Walmart. See coverage map. There are a number of ways to have groceries delivered to your residence. This may be especially helpful for any student who may be quarantining. Some supermarkets deliver directly and some supermarkets work with a third-party delivery company (Instacart). Please note that not all deliveries will be made on the same day as you order, so you may need to plan in advance. Stop & Shop (large supermarket chain; online selection of items, placing in cart, and delivery for next available time slot or for specific times) Instacart: Third-party delivery service that partners with a number of stores for delivery: --Aldi (discount supermarket chain) --Shaw’s (large national supermarket chain) --PriceRite (large national supermarket chain) --America’s Food Basket (Family-owned supermarket chain) --BJ’s Wholesale Club (some grocery items, but not primarily a food store, offers also electronics, household items, and more) --Target (some grocery items, but not primarily a food store, offers also electronics, household items, and more) --CVS (small selection of grocery items; primarily a drugstore for toiletries; prescription orders would need to be placed directly with CVS, see below, rather than through Instacart) Whole Foods (delivery only available to Amazon “Prime” members; more upscale supermarket) Urban Greens (local cooperative market; curbside pickup) Eastside Marketplace (affiliated with Stop & Shop; offers separate delivery services, though requires calling or emailing your order, and doesn’t offer the ability on their website to review available items and prices) Pharmacy Delivery For delivery of prescription medicines, shampoo, toothpaste and other toiletries (some of the toiletries can also be ordered from grocery stores, as well, or by some of the stores listed under Household Necessities). CVS Pharmacy (National pharmacy chain: Delivery is by mail, plan on around 2 days; also delivers by Instacart) Greenline Apothecary (A local pharmacy; delivers with drivers) Restaurant Delivery There are a number of delivery services that will deliver from a number of local restaurants for an additional fee. It is customary to add a tip for the deliverer. Many services allow you to add a tip when you order; this will also allow you to do contactless delivery, allowing the delivery to be left at your door. Door Dash Grubhub Seamless Uber Eats Postmates Restaurants that deliver (some deliver directly and some use the third-party services above). You can find reviews of restaurants and search for restaurants that deliver on Yelp. Some popular local restaurants that you can order for delivery are: Apsara Palace (Chinese, Cambodian, Thai) East Side Pockets (Falafel, gyros, wraps, baklava, grape leaves, salads) Flatbread (pizza and salad) Heng Thai Rotisserie (Thai) Hometown Poke (Poke) Hope Street Pizza (pizza, burgers, sandwiches) Ivy Tavern (burgers, bibimbap) Kabob and Curry (Indian) Khaosan Thai Street Food Lims (Thai and Sushi) Machupicchu Restaurant (Peruvian) Noodles 102 Not Just Snacks (Indian) Pasta Beach (Italian) Pho Horn’s (Vietnamese) Piemonte Pizza Pizza Pie-er (pizza) Plant City (vegan) Pokeworks (Poke) Saladworks The District (wings, pizza) Wara Wara (Japanese fusion) Xaco Taco (burritos and tacos) Yoleni’s (Greek, Mediterranean) Household Necessities We know you might need everything from toothpaste to an air mattress to pots and pans. These are just a few online resources that will deliver these items to you quickly. Be sure to check with your landlord, hotel, or airbnb host to find out the best way to get packages delivered to you. Amazon Best Buy Home Depot Ikea (Note that not all items can be shipped) Target Walmart Staples (office supply/electronics store; delivers direct and through Instacart shoppers) Health and Wellness Resources A full list of resources can be found on the Campus Life Resources website. University Health Services: Students can call 401-863-3953 for questions about symptoms or health concerns or to arrange an appointment via telehealth. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS): Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) provides a range of mental health services to the Brown community, with services available for all current Brown students — undergraduate, graduate and medical — both on or near campus as well as those who will remain away from campus. --CAPS continues to provide services for urgent situations. In those cases, students should access one of the urgent help options immediately, including calling CAPS directly at 401-863-3476. Those who call should follow the prompts to be connected to someone who can help — this is available 24/7, every day of the year, and it can be accessed by Brown students from anywhere. Student Accessibility Services: SAS coordinates and facilitates services for students with physical, psychological and learning disabilities. For new students, the SAS website includes a registration form and information about how to provide documentation. If you have any questions about documentation, please reach out by email or phone 401-863-9588 during weekday business hours. Please review their FAQ and their Graduate Student FAQ. Student Support: Student Support Services deans are available to assist all students with a wide range of issues and concerns. Deans can serve as a sounding board to help students consider their options and can help connect students to the right set of resources at Brown. The Student Support Services team will continue to be available to students via phone, email, and video conferencing during weekday business hours. Please call 401-863-3145 or email [email protected] for assistance. Graduate students may also reach out to Associate Dean of Student Support, Maria Suarez, in the Graduate School. Chaplains and Religious Life: The Chaplains of the University are holding the Brown community in our prayers and remain fully available to all graduate students. Please check their website for details on programming and meetings. Brown community members may send requests for counsel, support, information, or prayer by email to the Chaplain of the University: [email protected]. Individual members of the OCRL team can also be reached directly at the addresses listed on their website. Finding Community Graduate Student Council: Review their website and sign up for the listservs Brown Center for Students of Color (BCSC) Chaplains and Religious Life Global Brown Center for International Students (GBC) LGBTQ Center Office of Military Affiliated Students Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Keep Yourself Entertained Sign up for free New York Times and Wall Street Journal subscriptions through the library Find virtual events to attend on campus at Events at Brown and through the daily [email protected] email Learn something new: --Check out LinkedInLearning for expert-led video tutorials on lots of topics, including creative and technology skills (free for Brown affiliates) --Learn a new language with RosettaStone online (free for Brown affiliates) --Plan your budget and review a GSC-sponsored webinar about Financial Literacy --New to tipping in the U.S.? When to tip and how much? Here are some initial guidelines for what tipping is customary in the U.S. Do some virtual traveling; --Rhode Island Virtual Tours --Virtual Tours of U.S. National Parks --A Weekend of Traveling You Can Do From Home Hone your cooking skills: --Pantry Cooking with Alton Brown, host of Good Eats --Ina Garten's Cooking Playlist Fun, arts, ideas, culture --Watch movies through the Brown Library’s free Kanopy streaming service --Watch Research Matters! videos from your fellow graduate students --Lunch Doodles with Mo Willems - Kennedy Center Education Artist-in-Residence hosts a live daily doodle lesson at 1pm --TED Connects: Community & Hope - a free, live, daily conversation series featuring experts whose ideas can help us reflect and work through this uncertain time with a sense of responsibility, compassion, and wisdom. --5 Minutes That Will Make You Love Opera --Virtual International Festival of Arts & Ideas --Check out Go Providence’s list of Things to do Virtually, including tours, events, food and more Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Appointment Extensions for PhD Students Preparing for Your First Days in Providence Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants