Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design at the University of Houston  - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design About About Gerald D. Hines College Culture Academic Programs Accreditation Administration and Staff Faculty & Staff Directory College Committees, Representatives, & Task Forces Leadership Council Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion DEI Report 2020 DEI Action Task Force Events and Statements UH DEI Website Building Better Communities Faculty and Staff Information Job Opportunities Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Bachelor of Architecture Bachelor of Science in Interior Architecture Bachelor of Science in Industrial Design Bachelor of Science in Environmental Design Minors Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Programs Master of Architecture (MARCH +3) Master of Architecture (MARCH +2) Master of Arts in Architectural Studies [MAAS] Master of Science in Architecture Master of Science in Industrial Design Graduate Catalog STEM Designated Programs Future Students Undergraduate Studies Information Sessions Learn More Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Orientation Helpful Links Graduate Studies Domestic Graduate Admissions International Graduate Admission Prospective Graduate Student FAQs Current Students Student Services and Resources CoAD Student Services Office Student Life and Leadership Academic Resources Student Grievance Policy Readmission Procedures for the College of Architecture and Design Undergraduate Student FAQs Graduate Student FAQs Student Organizations Career & Internship Resources Career Fair Students Employers Alumni Financial Resources Texas Tuition Rebate UH in 4 Scholarships and Financial Aid Graduation UHCOAD ConneXion Special Programs Community Design Resource Center (CDRC) Design/Build Studios DesignLAB International Programs Design Experience Summer Programs Student Resources Computer Lab Jenkins Architecture, Design, and Art Library Keeland Design Laboratory Materials Research Collaborative (MRC) Hines Stream Channel Zoom Background Download Zone Apply Now Undergraduate Graduate Alumni Board Members Alumni Spotlights Connect With Us CoogsConnect Alumni Awards 2022 Awards Information 2021 Award Recipients 2020 Award Recipients Resources News & Events Latest News Events Calendar Lecture Series Faculty Experts Photo Gallery Video Gallery Marketing & Communications Team Giving Make a Gift Strategic Priorities Construction Robotics and Fabrication Technology Lab Sally Walsh Endowed Professorship Bill Kendall Memorial Endowed Professorship Contact Us Driving Directions Architecture Students Win AIA Fort Worth Merit Award for "Homecoming" Recognized project highlights late congressman John Lewis and Civil Right Movement while fostering the notion of “grounding” and communal integration. Hines Professor Elected to the Class of 2022 NAI Senior Members Associate Professor Jeff Feng’s success in the commercialization and production of impactful technologies recognized by the National Academy of Inventors (NAI). Hines College Professor’s Book Highlights Influence of Perriand and Sejima Rodriquez book focuses on transnational connections between Japan and France. Hines College and Valenti School of Communication Join to Develop Cutting-edge Technology Collaboration brings about the new AutoBox Mobile Digital Display, a portable venue for the digital screening of students' work with the ability to be deployed both inside and outside. AIRSCAPES #1 Reimagines Iconic Johnson and Burgee Architecture Building Hines College debuts 380,000 cubic feet floating structure at 75th anniversary gala challenging values of the past by through the ecology of air. Hines College Celebrates Historic 75th Anniversary Alumni, industry partners, and friends gathered on October 9th for an extraordinary gala event remembering the late Gerald D. Hines and honoring the Hines Family. Explore the Hines College of Architecture and Design Browse the wealth of information on our website regarding our College, degree programs, special programs, and student resources. Take a look around! The Future of Design Technologies in Fabrication and Materials Research Has Arrived Our new Advanced Media Technology Lab is coming to fruition under the direction of the inaugural Bill Kendall Memorial Professor of Design Technologies Andrew Kudless. Your Future Career Starts Here DesignIntelligence ranks the Hines College of Architecture and Design #14 of the “Most Hired From Architecture Schools” in the United States. The College also ranks #31 of the “Most Admired Undergraduate Architecture Schools” in the US by DesignIntelligence. Our Industrial Design program ranks #6 in the US and #14 in the world by Red Dot. From Houston to the World The Hines College is internationally recognized for bringing exceptional student work to the world stage. We make a global impact by sharing with the world what we learn from our exploration of Houston. Our extensive study abroad programs immerse students in local cultures and reveal the impact of design on all peoples. Impacting Real People Community impact is at the heart of all we do. The Community Design Resource Center and our student studios at every level are always striving to develop design that betters local, national, and international communities. Impact a world driven by design. The Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design offers its students a platform of integrated disciplines—Architecture, Interior Architecture and Industrial Design—from which to negotiate the complexities of contemporary practice in a world that is grappling with diminishing economic and natural resources, the realities of post disaster reconstruction, and at the same time, continued rapid urbanization. Our programs foster an environment where ideas find form, where practices that are socially equitable and fundamentally ecological establish a model from which to develop Houston’s future, and inform and share design strategies globally. “We teach with the idea that Houston is our laboratory, challenging students to push the boundaries of architecture and design in this complex and diverse metropolis, and therefore, make a difference in the world." - Dean Patricia Belton Oliver, FAIA, DPACSA Prospective Students: Start Your Design Journey Here Discover The Hines College By the Numbers #31out of the top 40 undergraduate architecture programs in the US (DesignIntelligence 2019-2020) 1945year the College of Architecture was founded at UH Top 7%of 508 architecture schools in the US (Architecture Colleges Rankings) #6out of the top 10 Industrial Design programs in the US; #14 in the world (Red Dot) 30years as a leader in Design/Build education #14of the top 20 most hired from architecture schools (DesignIntelligence 2019-2020) #5best value architecture school in US (College Factual) Latest News News Archive Alumni Spotlight: Shaya Attaei '15 "Learning to develop my visions and making them into a reality is something I am thankful to the College for teaching me," says Shaya Attaei. Read on to see why the CEO of ARIA Signs & Design + Architectural Products knows the definition of hard work after earning two degrees from the Hines College, and how the lessons he learned helped him build his business from the ground up. Alumni Spotlight: Ledia Osmani Valdez '06 "My education taught me to look at a project holistically, from the very initial schematic stage and through construction, to make sure the end-product is successful for all parties involved." - Ledia Osmani Valdez '06 gives insight into her career, and how the Hines College made her the architect she is today. Architecture Students Win AIA Fort Worth Merit Award for "Homecoming" Recognized project highlights late congressman John Lewis and Civil Right Movement while fostering the notion of “grounding” and communal integration. Alumni Spotlight: Sebastian Ramos '10 "I fell in love with the idea of shaping the lives of so many people positively through my creations." Currently working at the Naval Facilities Engineering Command (NAVFAC) - Department of the Navy, Alumnus Sebastian Ramos '10 looks back on this time at the Hines College and how it has shaped his outlook and career. Hines Professor Elected to the Class of 2022 NAI Senior Members Associate Professor Jeff Feng’s success in the commercialization and production of impactful technologies recognized by the National Academy of Inventors (NAI). Alumni Spotlight: Crystal Y. Granger ‘04 “We all have biases. However, those biases can render an injustice if not examined through an objective multi-perspective lens.” Alumna Crystal Granger shares how she expanded upon her experience to strengthen the integrity of design. Kirksey and Gensler Executives Join College Leadership Council Benito Guerrier, AIA ’91 and Dean Strombom, FAIA ’80 bring experience as alumni and industry leaders to advisory board Alumna Appointed to the Houston National Organization of Minority Architects Advisory Board The Houston National Organization of Minority Architects (HNOMA) recently appointed Hines College Alumna Maria Gonzalez ‘09 as Treasurer on the Advisory Board. Professor M. Rodriguez Publishes New Book in Spain Hines College Professor highlights the influence of Charlotte Perriand and Kazuyo Sejima on architecture and the transnational connections between Japan and France in the 1920s and 1980s. Hines College and Valenti School of Communication Join to Develop Cutting-edge Technology Collaboration brings about the new AutoBox Mobile Digital Display, a portable venue for the digital screening of students' work with the ability to be deployed both inside and outside. Alumni Spotlight: Dr. Bernardo Pohl '97 "My proudest moments are watching my students become star teachers on their merit, and witnessing how they make a difference in their student’s life." Hines College alumnus Dr. Bernardo Pohl '97 shares how his undergraduate architecture experience prepared him for an impactful career in education. AIRSCAPES #1 Reimagines Iconic Johnson and Burgee Architecture Building Hines College debuts 380,000 cubic feet floating structure at 75th anniversary gala challenging values of the past by through the ecology of air. Alumni Spotlight: Kristen Griffiths '08 "Perhaps the most valuable lesson I learned was to detach myself emotionally from my designs/ideas. The ability to listen to and accept criticism without taking it personally is a skill serving me well in many facets of life." Alumna Kristen Griffiths '08 shares her journey after graduation and starting her own company. Hines College Project Selected for Green New Deal Superstudio UH students highlighted in curated project showcase forming policy by translating the core goals of decarbonization, justice, and jobs into place-specific design and projects. Habitat Project Receives Texas APA Resilience Gold Award Professor Bruce Race's habitat project demonstrates the power of design thinking through partnership with Houston Habitat for Humanity. Hines College Celebrates Historic 75th Anniversary Alumni, industry partners, and friends gathered on October 9th for an extraordinary gala event remembering the late Gerald D. Hines and honoring the Hines Family. Industrial Design Professor Named 2021 IDSA Young Educator Professor George Chow awarded for his impact on industrial design education Alumni Spotlight: Jamie Newcomb ‘17 “Arm yourself with as much information as possible and then design.” Alumna Jamie Newcomb ’17 discusses how she grew as a designer at the Hines College and her work at Kirksey Architecture. Architecture Students Honored with AIA Houston Conceptual Design Award UH students awarded for their social justice-focused project re-envisioning The National Memorial Peace and Justice in Montgomery, Alabama. Developing Strategies to Increase Access to Electric Vehicles A pilot program, led by UH to increase access to electric vehicles, targets ownership in low-income communities in Houston and brings together METRO, commercial EV charging companies, rideshare partners, and the community. Featured Events Jun 23 7:00 pm AIA Conference Alumni Reception Join us at this year’s AIA Conference on Architecture in Chicago! We’re joining The Block Party event with an alumni reception on Thursday, June 23rd, at the Sheraton Grand Chicago. RSVP here! Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture & Design 4200 Elgin St Houston, TX 77204-4000 713-743-2400 A - Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library MySafeCampus Parking Title IX - Sexual Misconduct Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies