Department of Psychology - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Psychology About People Diversity Undergraduate Admissions Major in Psychology Minor in Psychology Distance Education Psychology Advising Appointments Scholarships Announcements Graduate Department of Psychology Graduate Scholarships Admissions Handbooks and Bulletins Clinical Developmental, Cognitive, & Behavioral Neuroscience Industrial Organizational Social Psychological Science Research Clinics Directions Giving Ways to Give What to Support Types of Donations Contact Us UH Home College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Department of Psychology Department of Psychology The University of Houston 3695 Cullen Boulevard Room 126 Houston, TX 77204-5022 (713) 743-8500 Related Links Computer Support Keep in touch! We celebrate our former and current NIH NRSA F31 Fellowship Recipients! Dr. Zach Baker Dr. Charles Brandt Dr. Megan (Maggie) Britton Dr. Samantha Farris Dr. Lorra Garey Dr. Carolyn Ha Dr. Brooke Kauffman Dr. Heather Krieger Dr. Steven Nieto Dr. Daniel Paulus Dr. Lindsey Rodriguez Dr. Salome Vanwoerden Dr. Amanda Venta Amber Anthenien Antoine Lebeaut Kelly Macdonald Kara Manning Nubia (Angie) Mayorga Elizabeth Raines Andrew Rogers Justin Shepherd Lia Smith Jesse Walker Kiana Wall Maya Zegel Psychology Pair of Psychology Professors Win Prestigious UH Awards The Importance of Family Time During COVID-19 Modernizing the Naval Selection Process Now is the Time to Study Impact of Pandemic on Mothers and Babies UH Researcher Issues a Call for New Methods to Combat Stress and Social Isolation Borderline Personality Disorder: Don’t Ignore It Diagnose It, Treat It and Teen Patients Improve Faculty Named to Prestigious Listing of American Black Scientists Role of Birth Order on Career Choice Might Have Been Overestimated in Previous Research Personality Changes Predict Early Career Outcomes TRAC is an interdisciplinary consortium empowered to advance research and training for addiction interventions Clinical Child Psychology; Clinical Neuropsychology; Clinical Psychology (adult) Learn more about the different areas of concentration The AHRL/SUTC provides empirically-based evaluation and treatment services Evaluation and Services are targeted to adults struggling with anxiety and substance use Dr. Jack Fletcher is the overall project PI of the TCLD The center supports research that leads to a more comprehensive classification of LD Advancing research and educational excellence in brain and psychological sciences. Clinical Psychology Program Clinical Psychology Program Director, John P. Vincent, Ph.D. The Clinical Psychology Program at the University of Houston has been continuously accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of the American Psychological Association since 1959. The Program emphasizes the integration of the scientific and professional aspects of the field. Within this overall emphasis, particular focus is on developing the conceptual, research, and technical skills necessary for conducting clinical research into the etiology and assessment/treatment of psychiatric, behavioral and neurological disorders. Our mission is to develop leaders in the area of clinical psychology who generate and disseminate scientific findings related to the causes and treatment of psychological disorders across the lifespan. Learn more » Developmental, Cognitive, & Behavioral Neuroscience Developmental, Cognitive, & Behavioral Neuroscience Director, Therese A. Kosten, Ph.D. The Integrative Program in Developmental, Cognitive, & Behavioral Neuroscience (DCBN) reflects a diverse yet interactive group of researchers interested in understanding how the brain and behavior change over time. DCBN includes four areas of concentration in Psychology: 1) Behavioral Neuroscience; 2) Cognitive Neuroscience; 3) Cognitive; and 4) Development. Students receive training in all of these areas, leading to a truly interdisciplinary educational experience. Learn more » Industrial Organizational Psychology Industrial Organizational Psychology Director, Christiane Spitzmueller, Ph.D. The University of Houston has received a five-year $3.3 million grant through the National Science Foundation’s ADVANCE program to increase the number of women in academic careers in STEM fields. Drs. Lisa Penney and Alan Witt are Co-Investigators of the ADVANCE Social Science Research Initiative which will investigate the effects of psychological climate on faculty engagement and performance-related outcomes. Learn more: http://www.uh.edu/advance/ Learn more » Social Psychology Program Social Psychology Program Director, Clayton Neighbors, Ph.D. The graduate program in Social Psychology at the University of Houston is committed to training the next generation of social psychologists. We have a strong emphasis on theory, research methods, and application. Areas of concentration include interpersonal relations and motivation, close relationship and self, social influences on health behavior, psychosocial and cultural influences on health and illness, and IRT and social psychological measurement issues. Learn more » University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies