Skip navigation Columbia College Main Menu About the College Mission History Leadership Strategic Plan My Columbia College Journey Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion News and Updates Visit Columbia College Awards The Core Curriculum Contemporary Civilization Literature Humanities Art Humanities Music Humanities University Writing Frontiers of Science Global Core Requirement Center for the Core Curriculum Academics Current Bulletin Archived Bulletins Academic Credit Academic Coursework Academic Advising and Support Academic Opportunities Academic Honors, Awards and Prizes Academic Integrity Academic Affairs Advising Berick Center for Student Advising Career Advising Fellowship Advising Financial Aid Advising Global Programs Advising Major Advising Preprofessional Advising Admissions Financial Aid Learn About Columbia Visit Columbia Apply to Columbia Campus Life Undergraduate Student Life Student Resources Supporting the College Audiences Faculty Families Alumni Search Home / The Core Curriculum / The Classes / University Writing / Welcome to the Writing Center Main menu The Core Curriculum The Classes Literature Humanities Explore the Literature LitHum Reader About Literature Humanities Lit Hum 75th Anniversary Contemporary Civilization University Writing Staff Writing Center Antiracism Statement Consultant Biographies FAQs Faculty Resources Working at the Writing Center Workshops and Events Writing Resources Resources Applying to Teach The Morningside Review Art Humanities Music Humanities Frontiers of Science Requirements Science Requirement Global Core Requirement Foreign Language Requirement Physical Education Requirement Core Registration & Core Policy Core Scholars Program Core Curriculum Prizes Committee on the Core Course-wide Lectures History of the Core Center for the Core Curriculum A Committee for the Second Century of the Core Core Faculty Committee Instructor Log In Welcome to the Writing Center Schedule a visit Sign up for a workshop Writers may make up to two appointments per week by clicking the "Schedule a visit" button above. Appointments take place on Zoom and in-person. For drop-in appointments, please visit our office in 310 Philosophy Hall. Please contact us at writingcenter@columbia.edu with questions. Repeating appointments: Those eligible for weekly repeating appointments--international students, thesis and dissertation writers, first-generation college students, Mellon Mays fellows, Justice in Education students, military veterans, Pell Grant recipients, and those referred by the Office of Disability Services--can sign-up for repeating appointments within the first two weeks of the semester by filling out our online form. We are able to offer each writer a 6-appointment block per term. Update: We have closed the registration period for repeating appointments. We will open this back up on the first day of classes in the fall 2022 term. What we do: The Writing Center provides writing support to undergraduate and graduate students. In one-on-one consultations and workshops, our consultants offer feedback and strategies to help you improve at every stage of your writing, from brainstorming to final drafts. Learn more about what happens in a Writing Center consultation. Who's eligible: We will work with any currently-enrolled Columbia University undergraduate or graduate student with the following exceptions: Barnard, Teachers College, and School of Social Work. Students in these schools need to use their own institution’s writing center unless they are taking a Columbia course not offered through their schools. Want to know more? Contact the Writing Center at writingcenter@columbia.edu. Contact Us 310 Philosophy, MC 4995 Columbia University New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-3886 uwp@columbia.edu Columbia College Columbia University in the City of New York Facebook Twitter Instagram Contact Us 208 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2805 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 ColumbiaCollege@columbia.edu 212-854-2441 College Offices Alumni Affairs and Development Berick Center for Student Advising Center for Career Education Center for the Core Curriculum Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement Double Discovery Center Eric H. Holder Jr. Initiative for Civil and Political Rights Financial Aid & Educational Financing Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Student Life Core to Commencement © 2022 Columbia University | Privacy Policy | Notice of Non-Discrimination | Terms of Use | Accessibility | University Home Page