Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home News iSchool Inclusion Institute (i3) Announces Move to the Texas iSchool iSchool Inclusion Institute (i3) Announces Move to the Texas iSchool We are pleased to announce that the iSchool Inclusion Institute (i3), previously hosted by the University of Pittsburgh’s School of Computing and Information, will now be hosted by the School of Information at the University of Texas at Austin. Funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, i3 is a national undergraduate research and leadership development program that prepares students from underrepresented populations for graduate study and careers in the information sciences. iSchool Inclusion Institute (i3) Since its launch in 2011, more than 200 scholars have graduated from the i3 program with hands-on research and project management experience, professional skills, and peer-reviewed publications. Each year 25 students from a variety of majors and institutions across the country are invited to become i3 Scholars. The program includes a funded 20-month immersive, hybrid experience that includes two summer institutes, a yearlong research project, and participation in several conferences. Throughout the course of the program, students undergo professional development training (such as workshops, interview practice, 1-1 mentorship, and networking experiences) that are tailored to each individual scholar’s needs. Since its launch in 2011, more than 200 scholars have graduated from the i3 program with hands-on research and project management experience, professional skills, and peer-reviewed publications. Dr. Kayla Booth KBooth Headshot Final.jpg “On paper, we're called the ‘i3 program,’” said Dr. Kayla Booth, PI & Director of the i3 Program, “but really i3 is so much more than that. Over the last 10+ years, i3 has blossomed into an incredible community as we collectively imagine and build a brighter, more equitable future together.” “I am looking forward to the impact i3 will have on UT Austin and on the field of information more broadly,” said Eric T. Meyer, Dean of the iSchool. “We are grateful to the University of Pittsburgh for developing such an innovative program and are honored to take on stewardship of i3. I am confident that the program will thrive in Austin, and personally look forward to welcoming the next cohort of i3 Scholars.” In addition to directing the i3 program here at the iSchool, Dr. Booth also joined the faculty as an Assistant Professor of Instruction and began teaching courses in the undergraduate Informatics program in Spring 2022. As an educator, Dr. Booth collaboratively builds courses and experiences that empower students to apply human-centered approaches to data, information, and technology in pursuit of a more equitable world in ways that align with their skills, interests, and passions. Her research interests include the design and evaluation of tech-related health and education interventions to support and empower marginalized youth populations, and her work lives at the intersection of social and social justice informatics, health informatics, and user experience (UX). “Joining the iSchool, where so many people are doing incredible work in pursuit of a similar vision, really provides endless opportunities to collaborate, build meaningful relationships, and unite our efforts. I'm thrilled we get to work together as we build a home to welcome new generations of i3 Scholars and a hub for our incredible i3 Alumni to engage and return to year after year,” Dr. Booth said. To learn more about the i3 program, visit www.i3-inclusion.org. April 12, 2022 Diversity & Inclusion Share this Email Twitter LinkedIn UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022