Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close New York City Home Connect Chapters New York New York City New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester With over 26,000 Eagles in New York City, the chapter hosts over 10 events in a typical calendar year: gathering around BC gamewatches at bars around the city, catching the annual Sox vs Yankees game, social events on the Hudson, and so much more! 26,019 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us New York City Chapter Facebook Page New York City Chapter Instagram Page New York City Chapter Twitter Page New York City Chapter LinkedIn Page New York City Chapter Web Page Meet Your Chapter Leaders James Lizzul '09 Lives in: Midtown Major: Majors: Finance, Marketing / Minor: Music Occupation: Finance - Equity Research Favorite BC Memory: Everything about Commencement Ball: the tradition of getting trolleys and taking photos in Boston Common, the Ball, all the camaraderie throughout...everything except the knowledge that I'd soon be leaving BC. Why did you get involved in your local chapter?: I missed BC since before I left and wanted to stay as close to it as possible - BCNYC's Chapter events soon became my lifeline back to BC, both growing old friendships and serving as a launchpad for many new ones. I started volunteering to make sure that tradition carries on for NYC Eagles. What are your local favorites in your city?: Does Dewey's Pub count? (That's where we host our game watches). Aside from that I'd have to say I'm a big fan of spending time on rooftops. Fun Fact: I won the BC housing lottery...kind of. My group was pick #5 for Senior year. I also still have my original Superfan shirt but these days only wear it for very important games. Don't worry, I've got newer ones from 5 year and 10 year reunions. Hannah Cho '09 Lives in: New York Major: Majors: Communications Occupation: Advertising/Marketing/Communications Favorite BC Memory: It's tough to pick just one. A handful equally tops the list, including senior year, which I consider one long, great memory--from the countless celebrations to that massive crowd run on the football field after winning our last home game, the list goes on. Why did you get involved in your local chapter?: I got involved fairly early--as an undergrad who wanted to help provide students with more and better opportunities to connect with alumni. So I reached out to the New York City Chapter and found myself helping to develop a multi-event opportunity for students to learn, alumni to recruit, and everyone to connect. It was a fantastic experience and an early confirmation for me of how strong and welcoming our network can be. Tell us a fun fact about yourself!: I had a cameo on Nickelodeon when I was a kid, and I have somehow accidentally walked onto multiple sets during tv show filmings ever since. What are your local favorites in your city?: There’s always something to do or a fantastic new spot to check out so they’re constantly changing. It also depends on where you are in the city. Dewey’s Pub in midtown is always great for BC NYC game watches. Spyglass inside the Archer Hotel (also midtown) and the Wallflower in the West Village are great go-to’s for drinks. Then there’s Central Park and the High Line for walks, the various art galleries and museums, Broadway and ballet shows, I could go on. Is there anything you would like to highlight?: For as long as I can remember, the various leaders of the New York City Chapter have made this a welcoming and open one. I think it's incredibly important and a tone we strive to continue. Megan Clarke '15 Lives in: Murray Hill Major: Major: Communications/Minor: General Education Occupation: Event Services Favorite BC Memory: There are too many to choose from! During my senior year on the night of the Red Bandana game (against ranked USC) I happened to enter the stadium at the same time as Welles Crowther's mother, Allison, and had the opportunity to thank her for being such an inspiration in sharing Welles' story and continuing on his legacy. As the daughter of a retired FDNY firefighter, I really appreciated her kind words. And then we went on to win the game and storm the field! Also, winning the hockey national championship my freshman year, attending the Beanpot tournament and cheering on the runners on Marathon Monday were also great memories. Why did you get involved in your local chapter?: Getting involved with the NYC Chapter was one of the best decisions I made post-graduation. Most of my friends in college settled in different cities and I wanted to have the same sense of BC community in NYC. By getting involved with the NYC Chapter, I have met some of my best friends and graduates from a wide range of class years who I would have never encountered during my time at BC. What are your local favorites in your city?: Does Dewey's Pub count? (That's where we host our game watches). Cask Bar & Kitchen and Tara Rose both in Murray Hill/Kips Bay are great restaurants! Bagels & Schmear is my go-to bagel spot. Aside from that I'd have to say I'm a big fan of spending time on rooftops. Fun Fact: I studied abroad in Florence during the spring semester of my junior year. Alumni Staff Liaison Ana Mirovic ana.mirovic@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok