Skip to main content Skip to main navigation About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Legal Disclosures Legal Disclosures and Compliance Anonymous Reporting EthicsPoint is an anonymous, confidential hotline/website to report issues for investigation. Brand Standards The BU Brand Standards encompass the University Brand Mark, Signatures, Colors, Names, Emblems and Institutional Marks that identify, represent and symbolize our University. Many of these elements are registered with the Patent and Trademark Office of the United States and may only be used according to the guidelines provided or by permission of Baylor University’s Division of Marketing and Communications or through Baylor’s Collegiate Licensing Office. GDPR Privacy Notice Baylor University ("Baylor") is committed to safeguarding the privacy of personal information, including compliance with the GDPR. Baylor may collect, use and disclose certain data generated in the European Union or about citizens of European Union as discussed in this notice. Click here to learn more. HEOA Compliance Find information about Baylor University on a variety of subjects which may be helpful to prospective students, their families, high school counselors and coaches, as well as prospective employees, current students and current employees. Mental Health Resources The Baylor Counseling Center assists students in obtaining quality psychological services and counseling appropriate to their needs, including individual and group therapy and assessment services. Report It Baylor University faculty, staff and students are expected to maintain the highest standards of performance and behavior. If you encounter an incident, issue or concern where a violation of these expectations has occurred, use the Report It website to find links to reporting systems. In case of an emergency, please call the Baylor Police Department at 254-710-2222 or call 9-1-1! Title IX Baylor University is committed to maintaining a learning environment that is free from inappropriate conduct based on gender. Learn more. Trademark/DMCA Information Learn more about the use of the name, abbreviations, symbols, emblems, logos, mascots, slogans, and other terminology associated with Baylor University. Also, find the designated agent to receive claimed copyright infringement notifications. Website & E-mail Privacy Statement Baylor University and its affiliated organizations (such as athletic booster and alumni groups) respect your privacy. Learn about the University's and its affiliated organizations approach to your privacy. Baylor Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice of Availability Baylor University is required by federal law to publish an Annual Fire Safety and Security Report. This report includes institutional policies, procedures and programs concerning safety and security. Some of the areas addressed within the report include crime prevention, fire safety, and Baylor’s response to emergency situations and sexual offenses. Three years’ of statistics for certain types of crimes that were reported to have occurred on campus, in or on off-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by the school and on public property within or immediately adjacent to the campus are also included. This report is available online at http://www.baylor.edu/annualcleryreport/. You may also request a paper copy from Baylor Department of Public Safety (254-710-2211). About Baylor Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Ask Baylor Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories