Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Photo: Nick Dentamaro Topics Student Life Date March 17, 2020 2020-03-17 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email PHOTOS: For students with wide-ranging interests, [email protected] is a great fit The student organization’s 10th Annual Runway Show showcased the diverse professional skills and academic interests of its 120 members. 1 of 10 [email protected]'s 10th Annual Runway Show was the culmination of a months-long effort by its student members. Featuring work by 12 student designers, it was the group's largest show to date. Photo: Nick Dentamaro 2 of 10 [email protected]'s 10th Annual Runway Show was the culmination of a months-long effort by its student members. Featuring work by 12 student designers, it was the group's largest show to date. Photo: Nick Dentamaro 3 of 10 [email protected]'s 10th Annual Runway Show was the culmination of a months-long effort by its student members. Featuring work by 12 student designers, it was the group's largest show to date. Photo: Nick Dentamaro 4 of 10 [email protected]'s 10th Annual Runway Show was the culmination of a months-long effort by its student members. Featuring work by 12 student designers, it was the group's largest show to date. Photo: Nick Dentamaro 5 of 10 [email protected]'s 10th Annual Runway Show was the culmination of a months-long effort by its student members. Featuring work by 12 student designers, it was the group's largest show to date. Photo: Nick Dentamaro 6 of 10 [email protected]'s 10th Annual Runway Show was the culmination of a months-long effort by its student members. Featuring work by 12 student designers, it was the group's largest show to date. Photo: Nick Dentamaro 7 of 10 [email protected]'s 10th Annual Runway Show was the culmination of a months-long effort by its student members. Featuring work by 12 student designers, it was the group's largest show to date. Photo: Nick Dentamaro 8 of 10 [email protected]'s 10th Annual Runway Show was the culmination of a months-long effort by its student members. Featuring work by 12 student designers, it was the group's largest show to date. Photo: Nick Dentamaro 9 of 10 [email protected]'s 10th Annual Runway Show was the culmination of a months-long effort by its student members. Featuring work by 12 student designers, it was the group's largest show to date. Photo: Nick Dentamaro 10 of 10 [email protected]'s 10th Annual Runway Show was the culmination of a months-long effort by its student members. Featuring work by 12 student designers, it was the group's largest show to date. Photo: Nick Dentamaro PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — From community engagement to photography to finance, [email protected] ([email protected] for short) provides opportunities for Brown students to hone their skills in a wide range of professional fields that intersect with the fashion industry. Each year, the student organization’s members — which number 120 for the Spring 2020 semester — pitch in their various talents to put on Fashion Week, an event that culminates in an annual runway show featuring the work of student designers from Brown and Rhode Island School of Design. “Our shared subject is fashion, but the skills we learn as we plan Fashion Week pertain to a number of different industries,” said Sasha Pinto, a junior literary arts concentrator at Brown and the group’s president. “We create a microcosm of the fashion industry to teach ourselves how to fill the many roles within it.” This spring — shortly before novel coronavirus forced a transition to remote learning at Brown — [email protected]’s 10th Annual Runway Show featured looks by 12 student designers, the show’s largest number to date. From the start of fall term until the show, designers met each week to conceptualize, plan and execute their runway pieces. “So much of the handiwork in these garments looks purely artistic, but at the same time so much math, critical thinking and communication go into the process,” said Sebastian Immonen, a first-year member of the design team who is studying international relations and apparel design through the Brown-RISD Dual Degree Program. “Doing this work alongside each other allows us to create a better body of work.” The slideshow above offers some glimpses from behind the scenes and under the runway lights. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search PHOTOS: For students with wide-ranging interests, [email protected] is a great fit Open details for PHOTOS: For students with wide-ranging interests, [email protected] is a great fit Bookmark this Page