Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH HEALTH SYSTEMS AND POPULATION HEALTH HEALTH SERVICES MANAGEMENT Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 HSMGMT 500 Risk and Insurance Seminar (3) Presents the principles and practices of health insurance and risk. Emphasizes healthcare financing arrangements in the United States, including both private and government-sponsored (public) programs. Discusses comparisons with other developed countries. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 500 HSMGMT 501 Epidemiology/Critical Evidence Appraisal (2-4, max. 4) Basic knowledge about methods used in epidemiology and their application to critical appraisal of clinical, epidemiological, and health administration literature for evidence-based management of healthcare organizations, improvement of delivery of health services, and for creating health policies. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 501 HSMGMT 503 Population Health Management (2) Provides health administration students with an introduction to managing the health of defined populations. Examples include: the population within the catchment area of a hospital, the members of a health maintenance organization, the persons served by an accountable care organization, and the population employed in a workplace. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 503 HSMGMT 505 Managing Healthcare Organizations (2-4) Introduces healthcare organizations and organizational management concepts. Develops a broad perspective by integrating conceptual, strategic, and systemic frameworks using four knowledge themes; the management role, organizational theory, management economics, and theory and practice of systemic organizational change within overall strategic management and systemic contexts. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 505 HSMGMT 506 Introduction to Clinical Care (2) Introduces the world of clinical care. Discovers through readings, discussion, and direct experience, the people and processes of clinical care and how they relate to healthcare administration. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 506 HSMGMT 507 Group Dynamics and Team Leadership ([1-4]-, max. 4) Focuses on theories and observations of team behaviors and techniques with emphasis on the individual as a team member; introduces team management/leadership models, theories, and skills. Students develop self-awareness, knowledge, and skills associated with building interpersonal relationships. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 507 HSMGMT 510 Organizational Behavior (3-4) Application of organizational behavior theory to explore the factors that affect behavior, performance, and job satisfaction of people working in organizations. Provides a body of knowledge and skills needed to successfully manage and lead healthcare organizations. Focuses on "best practices" for managing individuals, teams, and organizations. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 510 HSMGMT 513 Seminar in Healthcare Finance (3-4) Focuses on case studies and modern theory in managerial finance relevant to health services. Students prepare group presentations and individual case study analyses of health services finance problems. Builds on accounting and finance principles. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 513 HSMGMT 514 Health Economics (3/4) Uses economic concepts and tools to examine range of issues pertaining to healthcare, delivery of healthcare services. Includes demand analysis, production of health services, expenditure growth, markets for hospital and physician services, externalities. Emphasis on using economics to examine issues and solve problems. Prior economics courses not required. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 514 HSMGMT 515 Advanced Economics - Decision Analysis ([1-3]-, max. 3) Develops skills to become informed consumers of economic evaluations of health programs. Develops skills necessary to conduct economic analyses of public health and health service programs. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 515 HSMGMT 518 Ethical Issues in Health Services (2-3) Presents an introduction to ethical issues that arise in management of health services organizations. Covers clinical and organizational ethics. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 518 HSMGMT 523 Informatics in Healthcare Management (3) Medical informatics concerns the representation, organization, and manipulation of biomedical information and knowledge. Exposes students to a high-level understanding of informatics and its healthcare applications. Discussion of successes and failures in implementing information technology focuses on gaining leadership and management knowledge that embraces informatics. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 523 HSMGMT 531 Systems Modeling Frameworks for Healthcare (3) Focuses on methodologies to support strategic decision making in a systems context, considering the material, patients, providers, information, and resource dependencies of most healthcare organizations. Includes optimization models and basic alternative evaluation methods for the applications of capacity planning, policy investigation, and design and planning decisions. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 531 HSMGMT 532 Quantitative Methods for Health Systems Design and Analysi (3) Focuses on the method and application of operations research in health systems design and analysis. Covers a variety of topics in healthcare management and decision making. Healthcare decision making touches areas in resource allocation, scheduling, staffing, capacity planning, cost-effectiveness analysis, and assessment of medical technologies. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 532 HSMGMT 545 Capstone Integrative Seminar ([1-4]-, max. 4) Designed to assist students in the transition from theory to practice. Emphasis on sharpening analytical and intuitive leadership practices through the use of interactive case studies, team building exercises, and field projects. Prerequisite: second-year MHA students. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 545 HSMGMT 550 Medical Practice Quality Measurement and Management (3) Provides an overview of healthcare industry themes regarding cost, access, and quality. Concentrates on definition, measurement, and improvement of quality. Shows how quality measurements and specifications; the concept of value, guidelines, and pathway; and the evidence-based medicine movement interconnect. Utilizes examples of cutting edge programs to apply and promote improvement. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 550 HSMGMT 552 Health Administration and Business Law (4) Studies numerous interrelated legal topics pertinent to healthcare organizations, typically including contracts, medical malpractice, legal and ethical obligations to provide healthcare, privileging, medical decision-making, tax-exemption, antitrust, fraud, and health information management. Encourages discussion of how the law supports or hinders current efforts to improve healthcare delivery systems. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 552 HSMGMT 553 Healthcare Marketing Strategy (2) Provides an understanding of wholesale and retail markets in the healthcare sector. Examines market research and the application of marketing strategies and tactics to support an organization's core strategies. Applies the concepts of market segmentation, targeting, and positioning to decisions about design, distribution, pricing, and promotion of health services. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 553 HSMGMT 554 Entrepreneurship (2) Focuses on developing students' resourcefulness, know how, and decision support skills needed to critically identify, evaluate, and develop new healthcare ventures. Topics include anatomy of startup ventures; new venture creation and innovation, business plan development and assessment, financing, marketing, and growth strategies; and corporate venturing. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 554 HSMGMT 562 Strategic Management of Healthcare Organizations (3-5) Management of goals, strategy, and structure in healthcare organizations. Design of external relationships and internal structures., strategy-formulation, decision-making, and change. Integration of professional, social, and organizational values. Theory, student and practitioner experience, and case studies used to enhance repertoire of management approaches and skills. Prerequisite: HSERV 511 and HSMGMT 560 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 562 HSMGMT 563 Personnel Management for Health Professionals ([1-3]-, max. 3) Designed for midcareer health services professionals developing strategies and skills in human resource management. Focuses on policy and practice issues important to handling day-to-day personnel problems-selection, promotion, performance appraisal, discipline, grievances. Prerequisite: registration in Extended MPH degree program or permission of instructor; non-business majors. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 563 HSMGMT 566 Decision Support Models for Health Services (3) Management science and approaches developed as applied to problems in public health. Emphasizes conceptual understanding of processes/application of systematic and rational approach to managerial problem solving, including cost-benefit, cost effectiveness analysis. Prerequisite: BIOST 502 and BIOST 503, or BIOST 511; registration in Extended MPH degree program; non-business majors. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 566 HSMGMT 567 Clinical Systems Management (3) Introduces the management of clinical systems and their underlying cultures. Focuses on quality improvement, change management, governance, and clinical leadership development of physician-administrator partnerships in complex medical care settings. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 567 HSMGMT 568 Quality Process Management (3-4) Provides a thorough understanding of the main concepts of operations management with a focus on total quality management techniques, along with key integrative frameworks that provide the foundation for successful applications of these approaches, as applied to healthcare organizations. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 568 HSMGMT 570 Quantitative Methods (3-4) Concentrates on fundamental concepts of statistics and their application to healthcare management. Approaches statistics from two different perspectives that benefit leaders in healthcare: that of biostatistics and evidence based medicine, and that of management statistics for process improvement. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 570 HSMGMT 571 Healthcare Financial Management (3) Focuses on the tools and analytic frameworks that healthcare managers use to make prospective forward-looking decisions. Problems worked in-class and assigned as homework to ensure that participants develop competencies and confidence in applying the analytic tools and frameworks. Prerequisite: HSERV 511 and ACCTG 500 or ACCTG 501 or permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 571 HSMGMT 574 Financial Management I (3-4) Prepares clinical professionals for participating intelligently in, and contributing to, financial decisions of healthcare organizations. Learn the language and fundamental concepts of accounting and finance, and become comfortable with what is required in formal financial analysis. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 574 HSMGMT 576 Capital Planning (2) Emphasizes preparing clinical executives for managerial and leadership in healthcare organizations. Key concepts include capital cycle, creditworthiness, financial planning, cost of capital, capital structure, and capital allocation. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 576 HSMGMT 577 Environment of Care (2) Addresses the basic issues of the "environment of care." Explores the physical environments in which care is provided to patients, JCAHO standards provide the core structure. Uses real world experiences and examples. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 577 HSMGMT 578 Project Management (2/3) Introduces need for, concepts of, and tools and techniques used in contemporary project management. Builds upon prior courses and experience in leadership, management, planning, and team development. Focuses on difference between management of ongoing operations and of projects, and the need for a disciplined approach when planning and executing projects. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 578 HSMGMT 579 Accounting for Health Service Managers (3) Emphasis on preparing graduate students for management and leadership roles in their healthcare organizations. Covers financial accounting including the accounting equation, journal entries, and processes of accounting. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 579 HSMGMT 590 Select Topics (1-6, max. 12) By arrangement, students and faculty members develop a program of reading and conference appropriate to the selected topic. Topic chosen is within the special competence of the participating faculty member, in the area of health services management. View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 590 HSMGMT 592 Health Management Program Seminar (1-6, max. 6) View course details in MyPlan: HSMGMT 592 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022