Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Facilities Management University Event and Conference Services Show/Hide Services Event Management Virtual Events For Brown Departments For Other Organizations & Individuals Event Support Fees & Labor Rates Related Services Events Toolkit Virtual Events Planning Guide Step by Step Planning Guide Facilities Fees & Labor Rates Visiting Guest and Dignitaries Campus Event Venues Campus Partners Commencement Departmental Ceremonies Events Policies Postering and Publicity About Us Staff See What We Do Virtual Event Gallery Volunteer with us Contact Us Presidential Host Program Planon Step by Step Planning Guide Our Step by Step Planning Guide STUDENT GROUPS: Please meet with the Student Activities Office (SAO) to plan your event. The information that follows only pertains to departments at Brown. STEP 1: Consider Your Budget Do you know what your budget is? Do you know how much to estimate for each aspect of your event? STEP 2: Choose Your Date(s) Carefully Do your dates conflict with a major University event such as Family Weekend or Commencement, for example? Have you checked the Academic Calendar? Not Sure? Visit the University Events Calendar and Academic Calendar page for dates to avoid. STEP 3: Take Care of Your Special Guests Fill out a Dignitary Notification Form to alert appropriate campus departments of high profile visitors coming to the Brown campus. Not Sure? If you are inviting someone who is likely to draw significant media attention, such as a well-known lecturer, an entertainer or political figure, chances are you will need to fill out the form. STEP 4: Reserve Your Campus Space Reserve classrooms, meeting rooms, and green spaces using the University Scheduling Office’s online request form. Not Sure? Unsure what space you need? Contact the Scheduling Office for advice and suggestions. STEP 5: Outfit Your Meeting Space Order registration tables, chairs, custodial cleaning, and other equipment for your meeting space(s) through our Event Support request form. You can also estimate your own event equipment costs using the Rental Equipment Pricing list found on our Event Support Services page. The new Planon facilities management system is easy to use to order equipment for your event. Not Sure? Imagine that your meeting space is a blank slate. Try to envision everything that you will need for your event, and assume that your space does not come equipped with any of these things! STEP 6: Arrange Your Audio-Visual Needs Request an LCD projector, a microphone, or other audio-visual needs using the Media Technology Services online media request form. Not Sure? Imagine that your meeting space is a blank slate - even though media equipment may exist in a room does not mean that it will be available and unlocked for your event. Are you planning to use equipment that is already installed in a classroom, showing a PowerPoint, showing a video, or speaking in a room that requires a microphone? Then you will need to place an order with Media Technology Services. For virtual or hybrid events, consult the Virtual Events Planning Guide. STEP 7: Order Food & Beverage Order food and beverage with Brown Catering. Please contact Catering via email to [email protected] regarding your requirements. Remember! Food or beverage served in any campus space must be provided by either Brown Catering or an approved Brown vendor. For more information, please see the list of Brown First vendors. STEP 8: Make Your Event Safe & Accessible Consider your audience. If your event is open to the public, be sure to utilize a space that is accessible to attendees with mobility concerns. For more information, visit the Student Accessibility Services (SAS) website. Have your event reviewed by the Department of Public Safety if you are expecting more than 100 people. Larger events require consideration of guest safety in the event of an emergency. If you are expecting more than 300 people, have your event reviewed by the Fire Safety Office. State law requires that any event of 300 or more be reviewed for potential assignment of a Fire Marshal. STEP 9: Advertise Your Event! Register your event with the University Event Calendar and advertise in the [email protected]. (Note: posting on the Event Calendar is required in order to take advantage of on-campus promotional screens or Today @ Brown) Become a part of Featured Events at Brown (Distributed every Monday to subscribers, including local and regional editors and reporters, Featured Events is a great way to publicize your on-campus happenings. See link for subscription information and submission guidelines). Add your event to one of the Graduate Student Council listservs which can facilitate promoting your event to the graduate community. Event Support Request Event Management Inquiry Virtual Events Planning Guide Step by Step Planning Guide Facilities Fees & Labor Rates Visiting Guest and Dignitaries Campus Event Venues Campus Partners Commencement Departmental Ceremonies Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of University Event & Conference Services Brown University 295 Lloyd Ave., Box 1941 Providence, RI 02912 Conferences & Event Support: Phone: (401) 863-3100 Fax: (401) 863-1943 Office Hours: 8:30AM-5:00PM FM Home Maps Feedback Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat