Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » About » Employee Resource Groups Set Navigation title in component Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Employee Resource Groups Advisors of Color Employee Resource Group (AOC) right arrow down arrow The purpose of AOC is to unite, support and elevate underrepresented advisors across all 3 UC campus locations (Uptown, Blue Ash and Clermont). We strive to empower advisors of color through enacting and articulating UC's values of inclusiveness and celebrating the uniqueness of each individual. We provide advisors with a sense of community and belonging that provides them the opportunity to enhance the UC, advising culture. Additionally, we function as a work-based family network that contributes to the personal and professional growth of our members. Established in 2017 Open to: University of Cincinnati Advisors of color Contact: Kea Hunt African-American/Black Male Staff (AABMS) right arrow down arrow AABMS is committed to providing a support network and professional development opportunities for AA/Black male staff at the University of Cincinnati. Through programs, meetings, literature readings, educational workshops and networking the AABMS aspires to become a standing body that implements strategies to create opportunities for the recruitment and retention of AABMS to serve the University and extended community. The founding principles for the AABMS are to enhance the professional men of AABMS and to increase the consciousness and togetherness of AABMS across campus, while also upholding a high standard for integrity and a dedicated focus on recruitment, retention and mentorship. Established in 2016 Open to: All African American/Black male staff who are employed by the University of Cincinnati Contact: Arthur Walton, Membership Chair Asian, Pacific Islander, and Desi American Staff & Faculty (APIDA) right arrow down arrow The APIDA Staff & Faculty ERG (formerly the AAPI ERG) provides a space where faculty and staff who identify within this ethnically diverse diaspora can find support and community at the University of Cincinnati. This affinity group is intended to enhance the sense of belonging for APIDA staff and faculty members at the university and serves as a body that supports the professional and personal development of its members. Established 2022 Open to: Staff & Faculty who identify within the Asian, Pacific-Islander, and Desi diaspora. Contact: Sue Strakowski or filling out the following Microsoft Office Form: https://forms.office.com/r/kHcgWaXT8a Black Faculty Association (BFA) right arrow down arrow BFA is an advocacy group that supports the scholarly, research and professional goals of Black faculty. Through supportive committees, resources, events and news relevant to its members, BFA encourages continued success and aims to increase the presence of Black faculty in leadership positions. BFA also makes it a goal to highlight the achievements of its members in order to foster connectivity between departments and help them to serve as role models. Established in 2015-2016 Open to: University of Cincinnati Black faculty members Get involved: Email bfa@ucmail.uc.edu to get access to our listserv. Follow us on Twitter/Instagram @BFA_UC and find us on Facebook! Black Women on the Move (BWM) right arrow down arrow BWM hopes to assist in creating a work environment where UC Black Women employees feel welcomed, supported, and affirmed so that they can reach their highest potential. We provide support, guidance and education to Black women staff members on campus. We empower women and develop lasting relationships through professional networking, mentoring and personal development. We value Recruitment, Networking, Collaboration, Inclusion, Mentoring, Advocacy, Professional Development, Promotion, and Retention. Established in 2015 Open to: Black women staff members on campus Get involved: Email ucbwm@ucmail.uc.edu for more information or visit our website Latino Faculty Association (LFA) right arrow down arrow The mission of the LFA is to promote the well-being and advancement of Latino faculty, students, and the larger Latino community at the University of Cincinnati. We do so by building connections and providing a network of support, facilitating and advocating for opportunities to celebrate Latino identities, and building powerful coalitions to advance the Latino community. Established in 2017-2018 Open to: University of Cincinnati Latino faculty Contact: Michael Odio LGBTQ Faculty & Staff Association (LGBTQ FSA) right arrow down arrow Our long-term goal is to create an inclusive environment that values LGBTQ faculty and staff as an essential component of UC's diverse community by retaining LGBTQ talent on our campuses; providing a safe and secure professional environment for LGBTQ faculty and staff; empowering our members toward visibility and action; and attracting future faculty and staff to meet the needs of new generations of LGBTQ students, who often face multiple obstacles as college students. Established in 2018 Open to: All LGBTQ faculty and staff at UC Get involved: Subscribe to our listserv, LGBTQFSA at listserv.uc.edu, or contact Alex Brogaard University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top