Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »Military and families Military and Families Military Home Military Credit Occupation Pathways Military Tuition Assistance Veterans Affairs Non-Traditional & Veteran Student Services Office of Military Affairs Explore your options Manhattan campus Salina campus Olathe campus Global campus Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 k-state@k-state.edu Welcome to our military-inclusive university! Kansas State University is home to the state's largest military population in higher education. It's easy to see why when you look at the ways we help soldiers, veterans and their families feel at home. Military-connected students have been a cornerstone of our campus for more than 150 years. K-State is recognized nationally year after year for its military inclusiveness. Our faculty relate to the needs of military-connected students. Many of them have research that's connected to the armed forces, from making the meals soldiers eat in the field safer to improving marriages impacted by deployment. The main campus in Manhattan is a 15-minute drive from Fort Riley. We have outreach programs at Fort Riley as well as at Fort Leavenworth. Our staff, academic programs and current student groups work together to make K-State friendly and accessible. Ready to get started? Future Students Our staff is ready to help! Air Force ROTC and Army ROTC. K-State's ROTC programs prepare students for success. The Manhattan campus offers the classic college experience with an array of majors and a vibrant campus life. K-State Salina Campus is home to many exciting programs which offer small class sizes and a personalized learning experience. Check out our Graduate School catalog to learn about our 73 master's degrees, 43 doctoral degrees and 43 graduate certificates. The Fort Leavenworth distance education program offers face-to-face master's degree programs in adult education and security studies. Learn online through distance education degree programs, or intersession courses. Find out about finances. Veterans Affairs is here to help you apply for and understand your benefits. Student Financial Assistance can explain the financial aid process and FAFSA. Our award-winning Powercat Financial is also available to help you budget. Explore employment opportunities We welcome applicants who have experienced the breadth and diversity of military life! Student jobs on campus and in the Manhattan area Federal work-study program Full-time employment at K-State Join our campus community University events. Check out the calendar to stay up to date on athletics, free entertainment, student art programs, traveling performances — look for military discounts! — and more. Military Affairs. Community outreach, relevant research, guest speakers, education and other activities. Non-Traditional and Veteran Student Services. Get help when you need it, meet other students, and don't forget to hang out in the veterans' lounge in our Student Union! HandsOn K-State. Looking for volunteers or want to volunteer yourself? It's the place to learn more. Open House. Come to this event offered annually in April and enjoy a family-friendly event showcasing the best of K-State. Institute for Health and Security of Military Families. Learn more about how you can get involved with research and programs addressing the health and resiliency of National and International military personnel, veterans and their families after the battle. Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 11/5/21