Jump to navigation Penn Home Public Safety Contact Us Privacy Policy Search form Search Welcome Welcome Proud Penn Parents! About Our Office Visiting Penn and Philadelphia Penn Parent Experience Class of 2025 Parents Understanding the Transition to College Senior Parents Communications and Publications FAQs FERPA Academic and Student Life About the University of Pennsylvania Wellness and Mental Health Resources at Penn Academic Advising Dining Services Residential Services Off-Campus Services Student Registration and Financial Services Student Health Service Get Involved Parent Volunteers Penn Parents Council The Penn Fund Please Make a Gift About The Penn Fund Benjamin Franklin Society Honor Roll and Donor Appreciation FAQ Penn Family Founders Main menu Welcome Welcome Proud Penn Parents! About Our Office Visiting Penn and Philadelphia Penn Parent Experience Class of 2025 Parents Understanding the Transition to College Senior Parents Communications and Publications FAQs FERPA Academic and Student Life About the University of Pennsylvania Wellness and Mental Health Resources at Penn Academic Advising Dining Services Residential Services Off-Campus Services Student Registration and Financial Services Student Health Service Get Involved Parent Volunteers Penn Parents Council The Penn Fund Please Make a Gift About The Penn Fund Benjamin Franklin Society Honor Roll and Donor Appreciation FAQ Penn Family Founders VPUL Remote Resources Page The Division of the Vice Provost for University Life (VPUL) has compiled a list of remote departmental and resources to help your student in their virtual academic space. You can view it here. Coronavirus Updates University protocol, recommendations, and updates regarding COVID-19 can be found here. Hub@Penn Campus Resources Page Easily browse through campus resources to find links to offices, activities, and more! Learn more. View the 2020-2021 Honor Roll Thank you to all parents who contributed to The Penn Fund this past fiscal year! To view this year's Honor Roll/Annual Impact Report, click here! Home Penn Parent Guide University of Pennsylvania The University Parent Guide is filled with campus resources, local insight and helpful information. Please click here to view the guide. Find Your Class Year My student's class year is ... Freshman Year Senior Year Sophomore Year Junior Year View all Freshman Year Sophomore Year Junior Year Senior Year Helpful Links & Resources Weingarten Learning Resources Center Penn Coronavirus Updates VPUL Coronavirus Resource Page Student Campus Compact International Student & Scholar Services (ISSS) FAQ Penn Today Daily E-Newsletter (Subscribe Here!) Important Dates and Deadlines (For full academic calendar, click here) MARCH 5-13 Spring Break MARCH 28 Last day to withdraw from a course APRIL 27 Last day of classes MAY 2-10 Final Exams Penn Home Public Safety Contact Us Privacy Policy The Office of Parent Outreach and Development/Penn Parents 2929 Walnut Street Suite 300 Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-746-4646 // ppparent@dev.upenn.edu © 2022 All Right Reserved.