HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation About M&VE Resources Clemson Student Veteran Center Veteran Tutoring Resources Green Zone Training Veteran Scholarships VA Educational Benefits Military Residency Sitrep Newsletter Organizations Clemson Student Veterans Association SALUTE Veterans Honor Society Mike M. Smalley Veterans Memorial Scholarship Clemson Veterans Living Library Clemson University Veterans Commission Clemson Corps Contact Us Scholarships for Student Veterans & Military-Connected Students As a student veteran or military-connected student, there are many scholarships available to you. Some are automatically granted; some require applying. We’ve included information on the Veteran Scholarships provided specifically for Clemson students, as well as a few third-party veteran and military-connected scholarship sites that our Scholarship Office has vetted for legitimacy. This is not an exhaustive list of everything offered to student veterans, but it should serve as a good starting point for your search. Clemson Veteran Scholarships and Fellowships Clemson Veteran Scholarships require students to verify their military service with Clemson University to qualify. Undergraduates can confirm their verified status if they have the VTRN Student Attribute on Degree Works in iRoar. To verify your military service, click here. University Selected Scholarships and Fellowships (No application required) Clemson Student Veteran Scholarship – $1000 scholarships to undergraduate student veterans based on money raised in the Clemson Veteran Scholarship Endowment. Most of the endowment has been raised through fundraising efforts by the Clemson Student Veterans Association and Clemson University Student Government - Military Affairs Committee, as well as support from individual donors. Mike M. Smalley Veterans Memorial Scholarship – $1000 scholarships to undergraduate student veterans in honor of Navy veteran Mike M. Smalley who passed away in March 2017 from cancer. Mike was a proud veteran and Clemson fan. His mother, Debby Mills, is committed to honoring Mike by supporting his fellow veterans attending Clemson University. Click to read about Mike Smalley. Newport News Shipbuilding Veteran Scholarship – Four $2500 scholarships to undergraduate student veterans studying in the College of Engineering, Computing, and Applied Sciences. Newport News Shipbuilding is dedicated to recruiting veterans and this partnership is part of their workforce development strategy to increase intern opportunities and recently graduated recruits from Clemson. Click to read more. Clemson Veteran Alliance Fellowship – $1000 fellowships to graduate student veterans based on money raised in the Clemson Veteran Alliance Fund. This fellowship is a collaborative effort between Clemson’s Graduate School, Military & Veteran Engagement, and Development working with local non-profits and individual donors. The inaugural gifts included Clemson University President Dr. James Clements and his wife Beth. Click to read more. Apply to Scholarships and Fellowships (Application required) Aldridge Family Scholarships – Awarded to a military veteran or child of a veteran with preference given to Gold Star family members. Student recipients are selected by the Office of Student Financial Aid who will carry out the administration of the scholarship. Student recipients must demonstrate financial need based on the FAFSA and complete it by the priority deadlines: January 2 for incoming freshmen and April 1 for Upperclassmen. Click here to apply. Major Julian Delano Dusenbury Presidential Scholarship, Class of ’42 Initiative – Awarded to a Marine Corps veteran or child of a Marine. Applicants must be able to prove connection to USMC. Click here to apply. Keeping the Tradition Alive Veteran Award – The Chalmers and Jeanette Carr, Clemson Corps “Keeping the Tradition Alive” Veteran Award recognizes a senior student veteran undergraduate who demonstrated exceptional commitment and dedication to promoting awareness, understanding, and education of Clemson University’s Student Veterans, ROTC programs, and its rich military history. Nomination form is emailed to enrolled student veteran undergraduates in the spring semester, and the selected recipient is award a $1000 scholarship in May. Military Friendly School Suggested Scholarships American Legion – The American Legion is built on a promise from men and women who swore with their lives to defend and protect the United States through military service. They offer a variety of scholarships to students with varied experiences. See their website for full list of opportunities and qualifications. AMVETS – This National Service Foundation is proud to offer scholarships to our nation’s Veterans, Active Duty, Guard and Reserves, their Spouses as well as their Children and Grandchildren. Scholarship are designed to fulfill a financial gap after all Federal/State educational grants or scholarship eligible to applicant has been utilized and all means has been exhausted. See their website for a full list of opportunities and qualifications. Paralyzed Veterans of America – Paralyzed Veterans of America is proud to offer funds to PVA members and their immediate family members through our Educational Scholarship Program. See their website for a full list of opportunities and qualifications. Veterans of Foreign War – The Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States is a nonprofit veterans service organization comprised of eligible veterans and military service members from the active, guard and reserve forces. They offer a variety of scholarships and financial support. See their website for a full list of opportunities and qualifications. Third Party Veteran Scholarship Sites While Clemson does not specifically endorse any outside scholarship services, we do encourage student veterans to research them. The scholarship sites referenced below have been vetted and cleared by Clemson's scholarship office. FastWeb.com – One of the many veterans benefits available to service men and women is greater access to a low-cost education. Much of this greater access is possible through veteran scholarships from a variety of sources. Thanks to our partnership with Military.com, a leader in military and news and information, we have curated a list of scholarships intended for military members, veterans, and children and spouses of military members. Scholarships.com – Scholarships.com aims to compensate and reward those who are dedicated to education, hobbies, and other valuable interests. That is why we provide scholarships to some of our country's most dedicated men and women through Veteran Scholarships. These scholarships are typically available either to those who have served in the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, National Guard, or Coast Guard. Applicants may qualify beyond one specific criteria, such as serving in the armed forces, being a dependent thereof, or having family members who served. ScholarshipsAndGrants.com – Veterans scholarships and grants offer essential educational assistance to military veterans. All levels of service are acknowledged with a variety of veterans scholarships and grants to help cover tuition, books, lodging and expenses for those who served their country. TheBestSchools.org – Veteran Scholarships – This list of popular military and veteran scholarships below offers a starting point for finding available funding opportunities. Students can also benefit from additional research into veteran scholarships that meet their specific needs and circumstances. Scholarships for Military Spouses & Children – Explore a list of scholarships, grants, and other resources for military families to apply to fund their college education. The Office of Major Fellowships Clemson students are encouraged to connect with the Office of Major Fellowships for support in finding and applying to the many national scholarships and fellowships available to students. They can assist with a number of scholarships, many specifically for student veterans and military-connected students (i.e. Pat Tillman Scholarship). Click here to schedule an appointment with one of their staff. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster