Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Career Education Career Education right arrow down arrow Get Experience right arrow down arrow Co-op right arrow down arrow Full-Time Co-op right arrow down arrow Cooperative Education Student Stories Co-op Majors Eligibility Support Working as a Co-op Options within Co-op Part-Time Co-op right arrow down arrow On-Campus Co-op Micro Co-op NEXT Apprenticeship right arrow down arrow For Students For Mid-Career Professionals For Work in Nonprofits Digital Skills Lab Remote Work Lab and Learning Center Go Global right arrow down arrow International Experience Program (IEP) right arrow down arrow Picture Yourself There Student Perspectives International Co-op Program Study Tours Design Your Own: Worldwide Experience Can I Afford to Go Abroad? Explore Healthcare Explore Research right arrow down arrow What Is Research? right arrow down arrow Research Process Presenting and Publishing How to Get Research Experience right arrow down arrow Student-Initiated Contact Mentored Research Programs Funding Course Credit Exploring Research Group Consultations Undergraduate Research Society Grad-Undergrad Research Connections right arrow down arrow How the Program Works Graduate Research Mentor Training Summer Learning Community Undergraduate Scholarly Showcase right arrow down arrow 2022 Presentations 2021 Presentations Research Mentor Awards Proceedings Undergraduate Research Fellowship Faculty and Staff Resources right arrow down arrow Faculty-Supervised Research Collaborate & Innovate right arrow down arrow Recent Projects What Students Say Make a Difference right arrow down arrow Service Learning Co-op National Co-op Ambassador Scholarship Courses right arrow down arrow Professional Development Pre-Health Courses Inquiry to Innovation right arrow down arrow Current Offerings UC Forward Certificates right arrow down arrow Innovation and Commercialization Design Thinking Forces of Change Service Learning Collaboratory Exploring Work Abroad International Study Tours Cybersecurity Study Tour Co-op Course Sequence Career Studio right arrow down arrow Choosing a Career right arrow down arrow Know Yourself Explore Majors and Careers right arrow down arrow What Can I Do with this Major? Informational Interviewing Get Focused Take Action Ways to Get Experience Job Search right arrow down arrow Resume and Curriculum Vitae (CV) right arrow down arrow How to Write a Resume How to Write a Curriculum Vitae (CV) Writing Bullet Points VMock Virtual Resume Assistant Cover Letters Professional Profile right arrow down arrow Professional Portraits Elevator Speech Where to Look for Jobs right arrow down arrow How to Prepare for a Career Fair Avoid Fraudulent Job Postings Prepare for Interviews right arrow down arrow Interview Practice Sample Interview Questions STAR Method Illegal Interview Questions How to Dress for an Interview Negotiate a Job Offer Graduate School Planning right arrow down arrow Research and Evaluate Graduate Programs Application Timeline Entrance Exams Application Essays Paying for Graduate School Handshake right arrow down arrow Handshake Profile Jobs in Handshake Events in Handshake Career Center in Handshake About Us right arrow down arrow Career Coaching Walk-In Career Coaching Career Coaching by Appointment Where We're Located Other UC Career Offices Vendor Inquiries Employers and Partners Events right arrow down arrow Virtual Career Fairs Professional and Technical Career Fair E2C: Engaging Emerging Creatives Undergraduate Scholarly Showcase Healthcare Workforce Diversity Symposium About right arrow down arrow Faculty and Staff Publications right arrow down arrow Post-Graduation Outcomes right arrow down arrow Self-Report Your First Destination Find Us Request a Presentation Vendor Inquiries COVID-19 Updates Home » Campus Life » Career Education » About » Publications » Post-Graduation Outcomes Set Navigation title in component Faculty and Staff Publications Post-Graduation Outcomes Self-Report Your First Destination Find Us Request a Presentation Vendor Inquiries Post-Graduation Outcomes The University of Cincinnati's Division of Experience-Based Learning and Career Education, in conjunction with the Office of Institutional Research, presents data on post-graduation outcomes by degree type and by college, to assist prospective students in planning for their future. We present the percentages of graduates who are employed, not employed, not seeking employment, or continuing their education at the time of data collection, along with the three-year average salary. In accordance with guidelines set by the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE), data is collected six months to one year after degree or certificate completion using national and state databases and surveys. 2019-2020 Post-Graduation Outcomes 2019-2020 2018-2019 Post-Graduation Outcomes 2018-2019 Post-Graduation Data PDFs for Baccalaureate Programs by College Starting Salary by Major 2017-2018 Post-Graduation Data Post-Graduation Data (Accessible) Starting Salary by Major 2016-2017 Starting Salary by Major 2015-2016 Employment Status and Salary Reports All Colleges Combined College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art and Planning (DAAP) College of Education, Criminal Justice and Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Medicine College-Conservatory of Music (CCM) College of Nursing UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Accessible Employment Status Reports All Colleges Combined College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art and Planning (DAAP) College of Education, Criminal Justice and Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science College-Conservatory of Music (CCM) College of Medicine College of Nursing UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Definitions We use the most current definitions per the National Center for Education Statistics' Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS) glossary. Definitions of Terms in Post-Graduation Outcomes Tables Term Definition Associate An award that normally requires at least 2 but less than 4 years of full-time equivalent college work. At least one-year but less than two-year award An award that requires completion of an organized program of study at the postsecondary level (below the baccalaureate degree) designed for completion in at least 900 but less than 1,800 clock hours, or in at least 30 but less than 60 semester or trimester credit hours, or in at least 45 but less than 90 quarter credit hours. Beginning in 2020-21, references to academic year equivalencies were removed from all levels of subbaccalaureate certificates. At least two-year but less than four-year award An award that requires completion of an organized program of study at the postsecondary level (below the baccalaureate degree) designed for completion in 1,800 or more clock hours, or 60 or more semester or trimester credit hours, or 90 or more quarter credit hours. Beginning in 2020-21, references to academic year equivalencies were removed from all levels of subbaccalaureate certificates. Baccalaureate An award (baccalaureate or equivalent degree, as determined by the Secretary, U.S. Department of Education) that normally requires at least 4 but not more than 5 years of full-time equivalent college-level work. This includes all bachelor's degrees conferred in a 5-year cooperative (work-study) program. A cooperative plan provides for alternate class attendance and employment in business, industry, or government; thus, it allows students to combine actual work experience with their college studies. Also includes bachelor's degrees in which the normal 4 years of work are completed in 3 years. CCM University of Cincinnati's College-Conservatory of Music DAAP University of Cincinnati's College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Doctoral - Professional A doctor's degree that is conferred upon completion of a program providing the knowledge and skills for the recognition, credential, or license required for professional practice. The degree is awarded after a period of study such that the total time to the degree, including both pre-professional and professional preparation, equals at least six full-time equivalent academic years. Some of these degrees were formerly classified as first-professional and may include: Chiropractic (D.C. or D.C.M.); Dentistry (D.D.S. or D.M.D.); Law (J.D.); Medicine (M.D.); Optometry (O.D.); Osteopathic Medicine (D.O); Pharmacy (Pharm.D.); Podiatry (D.P.M., Pod.D., D.P.); or, Veterinary Medicine (D.V.M.), and others, as designated by the awarding institution. Doctoral - Research A Ph.D. or other doctor's degree that requires advanced work beyond the master's level, including the preparation and defense of a dissertation based on original research, or the planning and execution of an original project demonstrating substantial artistic or scholarly achievement. Some examples of this type of degree may include Ed.D., D.M.A., D.B.A., D.Sc., D.A., or D.M, and others, as designated by the awarding institution. Knowledge Rate Of all members of a group, the portion or percent for whom we have reliable data. Less than one-year award An award that requires completion of an organized program of study at the postsecondary level (below the baccalaureate degree) designed for completion in at least 300 but less than 900 clock hours, or in at least 9 but less 30 semester or trimester credit hours, or in at least 13 but less than 45 quarter credit hours. Beginning in 2020-21, this award level category was one of two added options for reporting certificates of less than one academic year in length. Masters An award that requires the successful completion of a program of study of at least the full-time equivalent of 1 but not more than 2 academic years of work beyond the bachelor's degree. Some of these degrees, such as those in Theology (M.Div., M.H.L./Rav) that were formerly classified as "first-professional," may require more than two full-time equivalent academic years of work. N<5 Too few data points to provide a reliable figure. N/A Not applicable Not Seeking Not seeking employment Post-Baccalaureate Certificate An award that requires completion of an organized program of study beyond the bachelor's. It is designed for persons who have completed a baccalaureate degree, but does not meet the requirements of a master's degree. NOTE: Even though Teacher Preparation certificate programs may require a bachelor's degree for admission, they are considered subbacalaureate undergraduate programs, and students in these programs are undergraduate students. Post-Masters Certificate An award that requires completion of an organized program beyond the master's degree, but does not meet the requirements of academic degrees at the doctor's level. Experience-Based Learning and Career Education Steger Student Life Center P.O. Box 210115 Cincinnati OH 45221-0115 513-556-2667 careereducation@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Experience-Based Learning and Career Education Steger Student Life Center P.O. Box 210115 Cincinnati OH 45221-0115 513-556-2667 careereducation@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top