Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Giving Ways to Give Your gifts at work Give now Menu Search SMU Giving Impact Parent Giving Parent giving SMU’s vibrant community and innovative programs position students for limitless opportunities. A deep seeded tradition of philanthropy makes this possible. The generous, annual support of SMU parents makes an immediate impact in the lives of students and helps bridge the 30% gap between the true cost of an SMU education and the price of tuition. In fiscal year 2020, more than 1,100 parents made at least one gift to SMU that totaled nearly $3.5 million. Of those gifts, members of the Parent Leadership Council contributed nearly $300,000 in matching gift support to encourage others to give as well. “When I give to SMU, I am helping to have an immediate impact on current students’ education and experience as well as helping to support SMU’s success in the future,” said Geoffrey Small ’86 who co-chairs the Parent Leadership Council with his wife Nicole. They are parents to Karna ’20, Kelley ’22 and Lauren ’22 and make giving each year to SMU a priority. Our giving to SMU has a direct, notable, and deeply impactful effect throughout the University. To put it simply, our giving makes a difference! — Nicole and Geoffrey Small ’86, Co-chairs for the Parent Leadership Council We are proud to be Mustang parents, and we hope you are, too! Together, we have an opportunity to influence the future of the University in a way no one else can. Your support helps provide a unique and high quality education experience for all students on the Hilltop. Thank you in advance! Geoffrey Small ’86 and Nicole Small Parent Leadership Council Chairs and parents of Karna ’20, Kelley ’22 and Lauren ’22 * For more information about SMU’s recognition societies, please visit our donor recognition page. President’s Associates Society recognition is based on cumulative giving to current-use donations each fiscal year. SMU parents provide vital funding that enhances the experience of all students. Since tuition only covers about three-quarters of an SMU education, our students rely on the generosity of alumni, parents and friends who make current-use contributions. These current-use gifts provide annual support for academic programs, student experiences, and faculty members who shape a new generation of world changers. GIVE NOW Giving is Rewarding In addition to the satisfaction of knowing our gifts make a difference for our students and their peers, SMU provides special recognition and benefits to parents who choose to give at leadership levels each fiscal year. Parents automatically receive benefits with cumulative gifts at the following levels to any area of SMU. Parent giving benefits include the following at various leadership levels: $25,000 per fiscal year ($100,000 four-year commitment) Prior-level benefits and an invitation to an exclusive opportunity to interact with SMU leadership Tate Circle Recognition in SMU’s President’s Associates Society* $12,500 per fiscal year ($50,000 four-year commitment) Prior-level benefits and four reserved seats for SMU Commencement during your student’s senior year Lee Circle Recognition in SMU’s President’s Associates Society * $5,000 per fiscal year ($20,000 four-year commitment) Prior-level benefits and two reserved seats for SMU Commencement during your student’s senior year Selecman Circle Recognition in SMU’s President’s Associates Society * $2,500 per fiscal year ($10,000 four-year commitment) Prior-level benefits and opportunity to hear from SMU Leadership Hyer Circle Recognition in SMU’s President’s Associates Society * Parent Leadership Council The Parent Leadership Council plays an important role in supporting SMU by strengthening ties between the University and parents of current SMU students and increasing gifts to the SMU Parent Fund. Our current members are listed below. PLC Members Mr. Scott L. Adair Mrs. Jody Adair Mr. Rodney W. Adams Mrs. Molly P. Adams Mr. Christopher J. Ahearn Mr. Lawson C. Allen Mrs. Mary Lauren Allen Mrs. Katherine H. Arcidiacono ’83 Mr. James C. Arcidiacono ’83 Mrs. Katie J. Bayne Mr. Samuel G. Bayne, II Mrs. Anne R. Beard Mr. Richardson Beard Mr. William C. Boyce Mrs. Joyce S. Boyce Mr. Dave A. Bradley Mrs. Betsy H. Bradley Mr. Jack Butler Mrs. Erin M. Crocker Mr. Patrick J. Crocker Mrs. Ann Coleman Fielder ’89 Mr. Darwin L. Fielder, III ’12 Mrs. Deanna L. Glenn Mr. Dale A. Glenn Mr. W. Grant Gregory, Jr. Mrs. Kim L. Gregory Ms. Leigh H. Hay Mr. John A. Hay Ms. Jane V. Henderson Ms. Greta Huizenga N. Bruce Jenevein, Sr., M.D. Mrs. Debbie McManus Jenevein Ms. Michelle Juden Mr. Alexander C. Juden Mr. George M. Masterson Mrs. Catherine C. Masterson Ms. Marla J. Mayer Mrs. Terry Modoff Mr. Brian T. Modoff Mrs. Joane Henneberger Pickett ’83 Mr. Wiley M. Pickett Ms. Mary Virginia C. Reid ’89 Mr. Geoffrey R. Small ’86 Mrs. Nicole L. Small Mrs. Kella Smith Mrs. Jenifer F. Smyth Mr. John E. Smyth Mr. John M. VanderLinden Mr. Nick A. Vlahos Mrs. Angela G. Vlahos Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Impact Your gifts at work Annual Report Alumni Giving Parent Giving Student Giving Faculty and Staff Giving Recognition Giving Societies SMU Ignited Gifts Donor Spotlights Resources Why support SMU Ways to Give Frequently Asked Questions Contact us Office of Donor Relations Give now Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search