Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information for: Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Diversity & Inclusion History & Mission Facts & Figures Events News & Announcements Contact Related Links Advising Maps & Directions FAQs Admission Overview How to Apply Why Choose Woods? Tuition & Aid Visit Alumni Tuition Discount Related Links Articulation Agreements Course Schedule & Registration Process Events Facts & Figures Undergraduate Overview Bachelor's Degree Applied Liberal Arts (ALA) Business Communication Corporate Systems Criminal and Social Justice Economics English Concentration (ALA) History Concentration (ALA) Information Systems Interdisciplinary Studies Concentration (ALA) Natural Sciences Philosophy Concentration (ALA) Political Science Concentration (ALA) Psychology Sociology Concentration (ALA) Sustainability Certificate Related Links Advising BC Summer Session Course Schedule & Registration Process Nondegree Students Visiting Students Resources for Current Students Woods Academic Calendar Graduate Overview Master's Programs M.S. in Applied Analytics M.S. in Applied Economics Articulation Agreements MSAE Advisory Board M.S. in Applied Economics & Cybersecurity Policy & Governance Master of Healthcare Administration M.S. in Leadership & Administration M.S. in Sports Administration Certificates Corporate Communications and Marketing Online Certificate in Data Analytics Executive Leadership and Organizational Development Human Resources Management Project Management Cybersecurity Graduate Certificates Cybersecurity Analytics Sports Analytics Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Related Links Academic Policies BC Summer Session Executive Education Nondegree Students Registration Process Student Life Woods Academic Calendar Community Overview Jesuit Values Advising Woods College Graduation Process Living in Boston BC Resources Related Links Campus Life Career Center Events Manresa Experience Veterans Experience Course Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Related Links Academic Calendar Woods Faculty Resources Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Woods College site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Master's Programs M.S. in Sports Administration Master of Science (M.S.) in Sports Administration Master of Science (M.S.) in Sports Administration Propel your career in the field of sports administration by studying how organizational culture is built upon core values, creatively addressing the needs of stakeholders in an athletic organization, and developing your own leadership abilities. Industry professionals will prepare you to face the challenges of this field and experiential learning opportunities will provide valuable practical experience. Program Objectives The following are objectives for those within the Masters’ program to successfully achieve: Apply knowledge and skills to develop best-practice approaches within sports administration. Apply knowledge gained from coursework to sport administrative experiences. Demonstrate problem solving, communication, and critical thinking skills reflective of humanistic, Catholic, Ignatian ideals about personal and social issues within sports-related organizations. Formulate career opportunities through professional development, networking, and career coaching. Apply Inquire At a Glance How many courses? Ten courses for 30 credits. Flexible Scheduling Study full- or part-time. The program is tailored to the needs of professionals and individuals seeking to advance their careers. How much does it cost? The tuition rate for the 2022–2023 Academic Year is $1,298 per credit. Curriculum Requirements Courses: 10 Credits: 30 Program of Study Print all courses on page Summer 2022 Course Offerings These listings are informational only. For a current listing of M.S. in Sports Administration courses, including closed or canceled courses, please visit the Course Information and Schedule system and use the prefix "ADSA". Lead With Integrity Using Jesuit principles as the foundation for leadership and decision-making, you'll learn how to lead ethically, bring out the best in your team members, and overcome setbacks through collaboration. “Sports are about selflessness and being a team player, and those qualities pretty much define what the Jesuit values are all about. My ethics class has helped me build my own principles, which I’m going to use to help other people, and follow for the rest of my life. In my role as a coach, I’m working to develop my players physically, mentally, socially, and athletically. Hopefully, when they leave they are better people.” Julian Campenni, Defensive End Coach at Bowling Green State University Financial Aid We know that a BC education is a worthwhile but significant investment. We're committed to helping you affordably achieve your educational goals while treating each student and their family equitably. Financial aid and payment plans may be available for students taking a minimum of six credits across a semester. Graduate Student Aid Our Faculty Learn from experienced professionals—practitioners who are actively in the field and translate their hands-on knowledge to the classroom. View More View Less Careers Defensive End Coach, Bowling Green Director of Women's Basketball Operations, Virginia Commonwealth University Inside Sales Representative, Brooklyn Nets Player Development, Dallas Mavericks Director of Club and Intramural Sports, Marshall University Strength and Conditioning Coach, Miami Dolphins Internships The final-semester internship course guarantees a placement with either Boston College Athletics or a local or professional sports organization. Past internship sites include: Brooklyn Nets Houston Texans Los Angeles Rams New York Mets New England Revolution Harvard Athletics Babson Athletics Worcester Railers Hockey “The internship provides hands-on experience in an ever-evolving sports industry based on leadership attributes, community involvement, and extensive networking opportunities. A huge part of the Jesuit ideology is to serve men and women for others, which is the main focus of the internships—specifically giving back to the University, student-athletes, and surrounding communities.” Lisa Walendziak, Class of 2021 “As someone looking to shift my career into college athletics, the internship provided an opportunity to gain valuable, real experience working for a Division I athletic department. It helped open doors and created new connections that were crucial in transitioning my career from a professional background outside of the sports industry. ” Angelo Bruno, Class of 2021 Advisory Board Nick Bobrov Independent Hockey Scout Len DeLuca, J.D. Len DeLuca & Associates Karrah Ellis, CMAA Athletic Director, Tantasqua Reg. Sr. H.S. MA secondary Schools Athletic Directors Ass (MSSASA), LTC State Coordinator Matt Gladstone (BCSPAD Alumni) Account Executive, Premium Season Tickets Boston Red Sox Amela Hadziahmetovic Vautour, PHR, SHRM-CP Human Resources Business Partner Boston Bruins & TD Garden Jon Hickey, M.B.A. Recently retired Sport Marketing Executive Patrick Kraft, Ph.D. Athletic Director Boston College Marwan Maalouf 15-year NFL Coaching Veteran Anthony Mealy Director Architectural Sales AstroTurf (Sportgroup) Jade Morris, M.S. Senior Associate Director of Student, Athlete Development Boston College Alison Quandt Westgate, M.B.A. Associate Athletic Director for Academics & Student Services University of Massachusetts Lowell Doug Ramos, M.D. Team Physician, Creighton University College World Series Physician Chair, Big East Health & Safety Committee Dan Rose, Ed.D. Athletic Director United States Coast Guard Academy Michael Serazio, Ph.D. Associate Professor Department of Communication Boston College Nondegree Student Option Students interested in exploring the Sports Administration program prior to submitting an entire application may enroll in select courses as a nondegree student. Up to two courses may be taken as a nondegree student. The course options are: Introduction to Sports Management and Sports Marketing and Communication. More About Nondegree Options Sports in Boston “In a city known for relentless commitment to and support of professional and collegiate athletics, we believe offering an M.S. in Sports Administration at Boston College fills a gap in the region.” Patty Raube Keller, Program Director Apply Apply Print Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. View Articulation Agreements Application & Deadlines Requirements: Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college/university (minimum GPA 3.0) Applicants with GPA lower than 3.0 will be reviewed on a case by case basis. Personal statement 2 letters of recommendation Application fee of $60 (to be paid as part of the online application) Start Your Application If you are mailing hard copies of application materials, please send them to: Boston College Woods College of Advancing Studies Admissions Office St. Mary's Hall South 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Entrance Term: Application Due Date: Decision Letter Sent By: Fall Early Deadline: May 1 June 1 Regular Deadline: June 15 (International Students applying for Fall must submit an application by June 15th.) July 15 Rolling admissions: after June 15 Applications will be reviewed on a case by case basis, pending availability. Spring Early Deadline: October 15 (International Students applying for the spring semester must submit an application by October 15th. Applications received after October 15th will be considered for the summer semester.) November 15 Preferred Deadline: November 15 December 15 Rolling admissions: after November 15 Applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, pending availability. Summer Early Deadline: March 1 April 1 Regular Deadline: April 1 (International Students applying for summer 1 must submit an application by March 1st. Summer 2 applicants must submit an application by April 1st.) May 1 Rolling admissions: after April 1 Applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, pending availability. Standardized Tests The Woods College M.S. in Sports Administration does not require the GRE or GMAT for admission. If you believe your scores would enhance your application, please feel free to submit them. Our GRE reporting code is 7534 and our GMAT reporting code is 44X-HX-07. For all non-native English speakers the TOEFL (reporting code 3276) or IELTS (if applicable) is required. Please view the international page for required test scores. If your undergraduate degree was conducted in English, you may be eligible for a TOEFL waiver. Please contact Woods College Admissions if you believe you qualify for a waiver. International Applicant Info Transcripts Unofficial transcripts may be uploaded to your online application form for purposes of application review. However, official transcripts must also be submitted upon acceptance/matriculation. Both undergraduate and graduate transcripts are required if applicable. Please mail transcripts to: Boston College Woods College of Advancing Studies Admissions Office St. Mary's Hall South 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 If your academic institution provides electronic transcripts please indicate wcasadm@bc.edu as the recipient. Boston College Alumni and Current Students Your BC transcript must be formally requested from the Office of Student Services and submitted to the Woods College. Woods cannot request or access transcripts independently. International Applicants All students who have attended or are currently attending an institution outside of the United States must provide a detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation indicating the conferral of an undergraduate degree that is equivalent to a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution. This evaluation is not just an English translation, but a document provided by an accredited evaluating agency that shows all grades, course titles, credit hours, United States degree equivalency, grade-point average (GPA), and date of degree conferral. This detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation must be submitted to complete the application. Please request a detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation for all international institutions where a degree was conferred from one of the following agencies: Educational Credential Evaluators P.O. Box 514070 Milwaukee, WI 53203-3470 www.ece.org Center for Educational Documentation P.O. Box 170116 Boston, MA 02117 www.cedevaluations.com World Education Services Inc. P.O. Box 5087 Bowling Green Station New York, NY 10274-5087 www.wes.org Applicants whose native language is not English are required to demonstrate English language proficiency. For required scores, visit our International Student page. International Student page Personal Statement Your personal statement is to be uploaded to your online application form. In 500–750 words, describe your academic and professional goals; any experience relevant to this program; and your future plans, expectations, and aspirations. Résumé Your résumé is to be uploaded to your online application form In addition to your academic history and relevant work experience, please include any licenses currently held, any social justice-related experience, any language skills other than English, and any research experience or publications. Letters of Recommendation Two letters of recommendation are required. If you have been out of school for less than 5 years, one of these letters must speak to your academic abilities and should come from a professor, academic advisor, or person who would be able to discuss your academic record. Please do not submit recommendations from friends or family. Applicants who have graduated within the past three years, one recommendation letter must come from an academic recommendation/professor. Letters of recommendation must be uploaded to the online application, emailed, or sent directly to Woods College by the recommender. We will not accept letters that are not recieved directly from the recommender. Please note: letters of recommendations should be provided by professional or academic recommenders. Interview For all international students and non-native English speakers, interviews are conducted as part of the application process. The purpose of the interview is for the admission committee to gain a better sense of an applicant and how the program fits his or her academic and vocational needs. Additionally, the interview provides the committee an opportunity to answer a student’s specific questions and to address the unique needs one may have in transitioning to Boston College. The interview will last no more than 15 minutes. Qualified applicants will receive information on how to schedule an interview once their application has been received and initially evaluated. Questions If you have additional questions not listed here, please contact Program Director Patty Raube Keller. How many courses are required for this program? 10 courses are required (30 credits total). Do you accept international students? Yes! International students are encouraged to apply early. What if my GPA is not a 3.0? Am I still eligible to apply for the program? Yes, you are welcome to apply. We will consider your application and weigh a variety of factors to determine whether we are able to offer you admission. For particular applicants, we may be able to grant admission into the program with particular conditions noted (for example, passing the first two courses with a B or better in each during the first semester). Must both of my letters of recommendation be from an academic source? No, we prefer that one letter of recommendation be from an academic source and the other from an employer or person in a supervisory capacity who can speak about your interests and experience. Does this program require the GRE? GRE and GMAT scores are optional. They can be submitted as a way of strengthening an application, but they are not required. Is there an option to take courses as a nondegree student? Yes, qualified, accepted, nondegree students may enroll in one of two courses as a nondegree student: Introduction to Sports Management or Sports Marketing and Communication. Please review the nondegree student process and course options. How much does the program cost? Tuition can be found on the Tuition and Aid webpage. Tuition & Aid Do you offer financial aid? All domestic students are eligible to apply for financial aid. The Woods College also has additional scholarships for students who qualify based upon both merit and need. You are welcome to inquire further with regard to your specific circumstances and needs. Do you offer graduate course credit transfer? Students can transfer in up to 6 credits (usually equivalent to 2 courses). Decisions on whether to accept transfer credits will depend upon an assessment of whether the courses to be transferred fit within the Masters of Science in Sports Administration curriculum. Can you tell me about your faculty members? All of our faculty members have advanced degrees in their specific fields of expertise and are accomplished practitioners in private industry. What is the deadline for admission? Applications are accepted on a rolling basis with a November 15th deadline for spring enrollment and an August 1st deadline for fall enrollment. However, applications will still be considered after such deadlines, depending on available space. Also, in particular circumstances, applicants may be approved to take summer courses and should inquire with the program director for more information. How long does it take to complete the degree? This is variable and is largely based on how many courses a student takes at any given time. If you take 2 courses per semester, you can complete the degree in 18 months. Can students work full-time and pursue this degree? This is certainly a possibility and we have designed the program to be flexible to accommodate a variety of scheduling needs. Do you offer graduate student housing? No. Boston College does not currently offer housing for graduate students but our Office of Residential Life does have a staff member who can help you find off-campus housing. Ask a Student Interested in hearing more about the student experience? Schedule a time to meet with current MSSA student, Corina Bourantas. Schedule a Time With Corina Inquire Get More Information Loading... Quick Links Advising Take a Course as a Nondegree Student Why Woods? Diversity & Inclusion Events Back To Top Back To Top Woods College of Advancing Studies St. Mary's Hall South, Ground Floor Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts 02467 617-552-3900 woodscollege@bc.edu About Admission Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Community Apply Contact Give Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College