Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY DENTISTRY DENTAL GENERAL PRACTICE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 DENTGP 650 Advanced Topics in General Dentistry (3) Faculty members from multiple departments participate with senior dental students in this course, which includes clinical practice management; ethics and jurisprudence; and coordinated multidisciplinary care; incorporating diagnosis and treatment planning; medical and surgical management; restorative dentistry; prosthodontics; implant dentistry; periodontics; endodontics; and orthodontics. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 650 DENTGP 652 Comprehensive General Dentistry 1 (7) Immersion in group practice atmosphere that simulates general dental practice. Students will provide comprehensive dental care to patients of all ages and stages of life in UWSOD general practice clinic and the Center for Pediatric Dentistry. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 652 DENTGP 653 Treatments of Patients with Special Needs 1 (2) Exposes students to the assessment process and treatment strategies for successful management of patients with developmental and acquired disabilities, medically complex patients, geriatric patients, and anxious, fearful, or phobic patients in a variety of treatment settings, including clinical, hospital, and extramural (nursing home or senior center). Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 653 DENTGP 654 Dental Urgent and Emergent Care 1 (2) Advanced instruction and clinical practice in the diagnosis and management of patients requiring urgent and emergent dental care as well as patients needing assessment and care in the discipline of oral medicine. Includes clinical rotations in oral maxillofacial radiology and oral medicine specialty clinics. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 654 DENTGP 655 Service Learning Rotation (6, max. 12) Students practice clinical dentistry for 5 weeks at a designate rural and/or underscored community health center. The student further develops an understanding of cultural competence by analyzing and reflecting on the social and cultural factors that contribute to the oral health needs of these diverse populations. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 655 DENTGP 660 Advanced Topics in General Dentistry 2 (3) Includes clinical practice management; ethics and jurisprudence; and coordinated multidisciplinary care. Incorporates diagnosis and treatment planning; medical and surgical management; restorative dentistry; prosthodontics; implant dentistry; periodontics; endodontics; and orthodontics. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 660 DENTGP 662 Comprehensive General Dentistry 2 (7) Immersion in group practice atmosphere that simulates general dental practice. Students will provide comprehensive dental care to patients of all ages and stages of life in the UWSOD general practice clinic and the Center for Pediatric Dentistry. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 662 DENTGP 663 Treatments of Patients with Special Needs 2 (2) K. ESPINOZA Exposes students to the assessment process and treatment strategies for successful management of patients with developmental and acquired disabilities, medically complex patients, geriatric patients, and anxious, fearful, or phobic patients in a variety of treatment settings, including clinical, hospital, and extramural (nursing home or senior center). Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 663 DENTGP 664 Dental Urgent and Emergent Care 2 (2) Advanced instruction and clinical practice in the diagnosis and management of patients requiring urgent and emergent dental care as well as patients needing assessment and care in the discipline of oral medicine. Includes clinical rotations in oral maxillofacial radiology and oral medicine specialty clinics. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 664 DENTGP 670 Advanced Topics in General Dentistry 3 (3) Faculty members from multiple departments will participate with senior dental students in this active learning course, which will inch clinical practice management, ethics and jurisprudence, and coordinated multidisciplinary care, incorporating diagnosis and treatment planning, medical and surgical management, restorative dentistry, prosthodontics, implant dentistry, periodontics, endodontics, and orthodontics. Online content emphasized. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 670 DENTGP 672 Comprehensive General Dentistry 3 (7) Immersion in group practice atmosphere that simulates general dental practice. Students will provide comprehensive dental care to patients of all ages and stages of life in the UWSOD general practice clinic and the Center for Pediatric Dentistry. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 672 DENTGP 673 Treatments of Patients with Special Needs 3 (2) Exposes students to the assessment process and treatment strategies for successful management of patients with developmental and acquired disabilities, medically complex patients, geriatric patients, and anxious, fearful, or phobic patients in a variety of treatment settings, including clinical, hospital, and extramural (nursing home or senior center). Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 673 DENTGP 674 Dental Urgent and Emergent Care 3 (2) Advanced instruction and clinical practice in the diagnosis and management of patients requiring urgent and emergent dental care as well as patients needing assessment and care in the discipline of oral medicine. Includes clinical rotations in oral maxillofacial radiology and oral medicine specialty clinics. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 674 DENTGP 676 RIDE Comprehensive General Dentistry 3 (13) Students work in a clinical setting, serving a diverse population in rural and/or underserved areas. The RIDE Regional Director and Clinical Site Preceptors (UW affiliate faculty) supervise senior dental students in: practice management, ethics and jurisprudence, evidence-based multidisciplinary care, dx and tx planning, medical & surgical management, restorative, prosthodontic, and implant dentistry, periodontics, endodontics, and orthodontics. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 676 DENTGP 680 Advanced Topics in General Dentistry 4 (3) Faculty members from multiple departments will participate with senior dental students in this active learning course, which will inch clinical practice management, ethics and jurisprudence, and coordinated multidisciplinary care, incorporating diagnosis and treatment planning, medical and surgical management, restorative dentistry, prosthodontics, implant dentistry, periodontics, endodontics, and orthodontics. Online content emphasized. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 680 DENTGP 682 Comprehensive General Dentistry 4 (7) Immersion in group practice atmosphere that simulates general dental practice. Students will provide comprehensive dental care to patients of all ages and stages of life in the UWSOD general practice clinic and the Center for Pediatric Dentistry. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 682 DENTGP 683 Treatments of Patients with Special Needs 4 (2) Exposes students to the assessment process and treatment strategies for successful management of patients with developmental and acquired disabilities, medically complex patients, geriatric patients, and anxious, fearful, or phobic patients in a variety of treatment settings, including clinical, hospital, and extramural (nursing home or senior center). Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 683 DENTGP 684 Dental Urgent and Emergent Care 4 (2) Advanced instruction and clinical practice in the diagnosis and management of patients requiring urgent and emergent dental care as well as patients needing assessment and care in the discipline of oral medicine. Includes clinical rotations in oral maxillofacial radiology and oral medicine specialty clinics. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 684 DENTGP 685 4th Year Clinical Competencies (1) In part 2 of this course, students will demonstrate competency as defined by UWSOD and CODA (Standards 2.9, 2.14, 2.16, 2.17, 2.18, 2.19, 2.20, 2.21, 2.22, 2.23 A through O, and 2.24). Students will also demonstrate global competency to practice dentistry. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 685 DENTGP 686 RIDE Comprehensive General Dentistry 4 (13) Students work in a clinical setting, serving a diverse population in rural and/or underserved areas. The RIDE Regional Director and Clinical Site Preceptors (UW affiliate faculty) supervise senior dental students in: practice management, ethics and jurisprudence, evidence-based multidisciplinary care, dx and tx planning, medical & surgical management, restorative, prosthodontic, and implant dentistry, periodontics, endodontics, and orthodontics. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTGP 686 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022