Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Senior Administration About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Senior Administration>President's Council>Malcolm Foley Malcolm Foley Special Advisor to the President for Equity and Campus Engagement Malcolm Foley Special Advisor to the President for Equity and Campus Engagement Dr. Malcolm Foley serves as the Special Advisor to the President for Equity and Campus Engagement. In this role, Dr. Foley facilitates engagement and interaction with and among the many diverse members of our community and works collaboratively to develop initiatives designed to foster a welcoming and inclusive campus for all. Dr. Foley holds a B.A. in Religious Studies with a second major in Finance and a minor in Classics from Washington University in St. Louis. He then completed a Master of Divinity at Yale Divinity School, focusing on the theology of the early and medieval church, and a Ph.D. in Religion from Baylor. His dissertation investigates African American Protestants responding to lynching from the late 19thcentury to the early 20th century. From 2018-2020, Dr. Foley served as a student regent on the Baylor University Board of Regents. He is the Director of Black Church Studies at George W. Truett Theological Seminary and the director of discipleship at Mosaic Waco, where he serves with his wife, Desiree. Senior Administration Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor