Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search Office of the Registrar Office of the Registrar Home Student Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Registration/Time Schedule Forms Contact Us MyUW Map Tools Registration / Time Schedule The Office of the Registrar is ready to support students with registration and other processes. There are many online resources to help understand the UW registration process. Send us an email at reguwt@uw.edu or Live Chat with us during business hours. When asking about specific courses, please include the SLN. Ready to Register? Step 1: Prepare to Register Step 2: Explore Course Offerings (Time Schedule) Step 3: Register for Classes Step 1: Prepare to Register Students must complete two important steps before registering for courses each quarter: Confirm your address and Acknowledge pre-registration notices, which may include optional charges, directory release settings and other information. Important messages and notifications, including any registration blocks, are displayed on the registration page at the beginning of each quarter. Step 2: Explore course offerings On mobile devices, swipe tabs horizontally to see more quarters. Autumn Quarter Winter Quarter Spring Quarter Summer Quarter Autumn Quarter Autumn 2022 Course Offerings University Time Schedule Time Schedule Quick Search Autumn 2022 Important Dates Registration for Autumn Quarter 2022 begins on May 6. Academic Calendar 2022-23 (includes important dates and registration dates) Registration dates for Autumn 2022 Important dates for Autumn 2022 Final Exam Schedule for Autumn 2022 (coming soon) Winter Quarter Winter 2023 Course Offerings Tentative Time Schedule Winter 2023 Important Dates Registration for Winter Quarter 2023 begins on November 4. Academic Calendar 2022-23 (includes important dates and registration dates) Registration dates for Winter 2023 - coming soon Important dates for Winter 2023 - coming soon Final Exam Schedule for Winter 2023 - coming soon Spring Quarter Spring 2022 Course Offerings University Time Schedule Spring 2022 Important Dates Registration for Spring Quarter 2022 begins on February 11. Academic Calendar 2021-22 (includes important dates and registration dates) Registration dates for Spring 2022 Important dates for Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule for Spring 2022 Spring 2023 Course Offerings Tentative Time Schedule Summer Quarter Summer 2022 Course Offerings University Time Schedule Time Schedule Quick Search Summer 2022 Important Dates Registration for Summer Quarter 2022 begins on April 11. Academic Calendar 2021-22 (includes important dates and registration dates) Registration dates for Summer 2022 Important dates for Summer 2022 Contact instructor or refer to syllabus for final exam information. Past Quarters Previous editions of the quarterly Time Schedule for the Tacoma Campus can be found in the Tacoma Time Schedule archive. Helpful Tips Time Schedule Quick Search & Tentative Time Schedules UWT-IT has developed custom search tools to help UW Tacoma students easily locate courses on the Time Schedule. The Time Schedule Quick Search filters through current or subsequent quarters. The Tentative Time Schedule Search (TTS) allows students to see what academic departments are planning to offer in future quarters. Other Resources Click here to see a breakdown of a course listing on the Time Schedule. Step 3: Register for classes The University of Washington offers two ways to navigate academic options and register for classes. Learn more about MyPlan and registration with SLNs below. You may also review the registration tutorial, created by University Academic Advising staff. Register with MyPlan MyPlan is a web application that streamlines the process of planning classes and collaborating with your academic advisor. MyPlan includes a multifunction course-finding tool that allows students to search the UW Tacoma Course Catalog and Time Schedule for classes that meet a number of different criteria including interest keywords, department, Area of Knowledge, number of credits, course level, when the course is scheduled to be offered and whether or not you've already included it in your plan. Classes can be added to any quarter of a four- or five-year plan or bookmarked for future reference, keeping all your course ideas in one place. MyPlan includes a degree auditing system to tell you what classes are needed for any course of study at the University and which of those classes you've completed so you don't have to keep track of it by hand. MyPlan also features a messaging function so you can easily share your plans with an academic advisor. MyPlan User Guide Go to MyPlan Register with SLNs Using the Registration section of MyUW, students can access online registration, acknowledge important notifications, and select insurance and optional charges. On these webpages, students may also: Complete pre-registration steps prior to registration opening. View any notices and messages related to or blocking registration. Register by entering SLNs for desired course sections. Drop courses. Change grading options. Instructions To register, login to MyUW and select “Register using SLN codes” from the Quick Links menu. Select the Time Schedule link under Registration Resources to view course offerings, course availability, and other registration restrictions. Each course is assigned a five-digit SLN. Enter course SLNs on the web registration form, including any add codes or faculty numbers if required. For courses offered with variable credit, enter the credit number agreed upon with the instructor or an adviser. Students can check Satisfactory/Not Satisfactory (S/NS) if they do not want to take a course for a numerical grade. This option is not available for courses offered Credit/No Credit Only. Students should check with their adviser regarding departmental restrictions or graduation requirements before selecting the S/NS grading option. Go to Registration Registration Tips Registration opens at 6 am on your scheduled registration date during Period 1. Register early for the best selection of classes. You can adjust your schedule at any time through the first week of classes. Remember, you must register for at least one class before the quarter begins or you will be subject to a $25 late registration fee. Connect with your academic advisor before selecting your courses or use the degree auditing (DARS) system to make sure you are taking the right courses for your degree plan. Obtain entry codes or submit course enrollment requests from the appropriate program office for any courses requiring entry codes (indicated with a ">" in front of the SLN). Take care of all university financial obligations. The system will not permit you to register if there is a hold on your registration. Once you have initially registered, you can log in to MyUW as often as you want to check the status of sections, view your confirmed schedule, add or drop courses, or check your account balance. Notify.UW Notify.UW provides free course notifications for closed and open course sections to all UW students via email or SMS text alerts. The service also provides notifications when a course first closes, allowing you to re-evaluate your desired schedule each quarter. Notify.UW is integrated with other UW registration tools including the Time Schedule and MyUW. Notify.UW User Guide Go to Notify.UW Contact Office of the Registrar email reguwt@uw.edu phone_iphone 253-692-4913 OFFICE HOURS: M-F 8am-5pm LOCATION: MAT 253 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts If you have a suggested edit for this page, or notice an error/inaccuracy, please notify our office at reguwt@uw.edu. UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy