Skip to main navigation Skip to main content apply visit give Information for: Current Students Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean’s Message Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Keys to Inclusive Leadership in Nursing Diversity Advisory Board Facts & Figures History & Traditions Dean Rita P. Kelleher Award Grand Rounds Pinnacle Lecture Series Tenure Talks Our Spaces News & Events Contact Us Admission & Aid Overview Why BC Nursing? Tuition & Aid Tours & Info Sessions Related Links Find Your Path Facts & Figures Living in Boston Academics Overview Find Your Path Bachelor’s Program Master’s Program Doctor of Nursing Practice Program (D.N.P.) D.N.P. in Nurse Anesthesia Ph.D. Program Continuing Education Related Links Admission & Aid Faculty Directory Clinical Experience Research Continuous Program Improvement Plan Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Nadia N. Abuelezam Stacey Hoffman Barone Stewart M. Bond Ann W. Burgess Lindsey Camp Melissa PéRez Capotosto Catherine Conahan Maureen Connolly Donna Cullinan Sabianca Delva Julie P. Dunne Andrew Dwyer Joyce K. Edmonds Susan Emery Jane M. Flanagan Susan Gennaro Katherine E. Gregory Nanci Haze Elizabeth Howard Dorean Behney Hurley Dorothy A. Jones Corrine Jurgens Susan Kelly-Weeder Kellie Lavin LaPierre Christopher Sean Lee Karen Lyons Cherlie Magny-Normilus Kathleen Mansfield Carol Anne Marchetti Alison O. Marshall Beth McNutt-Clarke Erin Murphy-Swenson Tam H. Nguyen Luanne Nugent Monica O'Reilly-Jacob Britt Pados Jinhee Park Victor G. Petreca Patricia Reid Ponte Richard Ross, S.J Cassie Ryan Sherri B. St. Pierre Christine Repsha Colleen Simonelli Jacqueline Sly Patricia A. Tabloski Allan Thomas Sheila Tucker Patricia C. Underwood Melissa Kurtz Uveges Brittney van de Water Judith Vessey Caitlin McManus Vitale Lisa J. Wood Laura White Research & Clinical Focus Open Faculty Positions The Barry Family/Goldman Sachs Endowed Professorship in Nursing The Lelia Holden Carroll Endowed Professor in Nursing Related Links The Marjory Gordon Program Boston College Vice Provost for Research Clinical Experience Overview Become a Preceptor Simulation Lab Community Overview Student Leadership Opportunities International Programs Living in Boston Career Services Related Links Why BC Nursing? CSON Traditions BC Campus Life Current Student Resources Office of Student Services Close Directory A to Z Listing Search CSON Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close apply visit give Current Students Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Preparing nurse leaders since 1947 Home About About Dean’s Message Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Facts & Figures History & Traditions Our Spaces News & Events Contact Us About the Connell School At the Connell School of Nursing, we know that nurses are more than caregivers, they are also educators, practitioners, scientists, and leaders. We prepare students to be all of these things, so they can achieve their personal and professional goals while improving health care locally and globally. Connell School of Nursing Facts & Figures #1 Top-ranked master's nursing program in Massachusetts 2022 U.S. News & World Report 93 Clinical partners in the Greater Boston area 34% Undergraduate students who study abroad More Facts & Figures Licensure Disclosures Accreditation Mission & Strategic Aims Mission The mission of the Boston College William F. Connell School of Nursing is to prepare compassionate, professionally competent nurses whose practice and scholarship are scientifically based and grounded in humanizing the experience of health and illness. In keeping with the University's Jesuit, Catholic ideals, we focus on formation of the whole person and promotion of social justice. The William F. Connell School of Nursing educates students as reflective lifelong learners who use knowledge in service to others. The faculty develops and disseminates knowledge for the advancement of professional nursing practice and the improvement of health and health care for a diverse and global society. Philosophy Nursing is the art and science of human caring. The recipients of nursing care are individuals, families, communities, and populations who are sick and well; culturally and linguistically diverse; within all socioeconomic strata; and at all stages in the life cycle. The study of nursing is based on a common intellectual heritage transmitted by a liberal education and the art and science of nursing. Nursing focuses on the life processes and patterns of the individual in the context of the family and the community and also the health needs of the population. Nursing recognizes the contribution of cultural diversity and social environments to the health/illness beliefs, practices, and behavioral responses of individuals and groups.Nursing education prepares students for the appropriate level of knowledge and skills by building on the liberal arts and sciences. Nursing curricula are logically ordered to provide core knowledge and the application of that knowledge. The preparation for nursing care requires a holistic approach in education, and education is most effective when it involves active participation by the learner. Students are supported in developing clinical skills and the ability to think and act ethically. Students are active participants in shaping the learning environment within the Boston College William F. Connell School of Nursing. The Boston College William F. Connell School of Nursing instills the values of service to others, truth through scholarly inquiry, and justice through promoting equal access to care for all people. Service, scholarship, and justice in caring include all people in the global community, particularly the underserved. The faculty believe that promoting the physical, psychological, and spiritual aspects of health are essential to understanding the human dimension of holistic nursing care. Nurses engage in partnerships with individuals and groups to promote and optimize wellness. The nurse respects the uniqueness of the person and the individual's right to choose and actively participate in decisions about health care. Nursing promotes self-determination by empowering clients and advocating for those who cannot do so independently. Strategic Aims 1. Advance academic and clinical excellence in the context of values-based student formation. 2. Develop and disseminate knowledge through scholarly inquiry and research that advances nursing science. 3. Establish partnerships that foster global citizenship and knowledge about health care issues. 4. Develop and maintain an environment that supports inclusivity and fosters the success of a diverse, culturally sensitive faculty, staff, and student body. 5. Promote a culture of health through local community engagement. “The constant hum of innovation and activity makes CSON unique. It's what defines us as a community—our feet grounded in Jesuit traditions and our minds focused on changing the world.” Katherine Gregory, Ph.D., RN, FAAN, Dean, William F. Connell School of Nursing Dean's Message Explore the Connell School Academic Programs Learn More We offer bachelor’s, master’s, and doctoral degree programs, along with continuing education opportunities for nursing professionals. Clinical Placements Learn More Our students hone their clinical skills through placements with our more than 85 clinical health care partners in the Greater Boston area. Our Community Learn More By fostering a culture of support and excellence, we position our students to be leaders on campus, in our local communities, and abroad. CSON at 75 The School of Nursing opened in 1947 with 35 registered nurses enrolled in a B.S. program. Seventy-five years later, CSON is the top-rated nursing school in the state with 750 undergraduate and graduate students and an alumni community of more than 12,000. More History A Look Inside the Life of a BC Nurse The Brown Family Clinical Learning Laboratory is a 2,000-square-foot work and learning space with 12 hospital beds, low-fidelity manikins, and task-training models. Students practice on each other in the Brown Family Clinical Learning Laboratory, a 2,000-square-foot work and learning space. Students and faculty work through a simulation of providing end-of-life care. Students walk across Middle Campus at sunset with Gasson Hall in the background. Maloney Hall, home to the Connell School, features state-of-the-art facilities, including the Brown Family Clinical Learning Laboratory, the Simulation Lab, four examination rooms, and the Student Learning Commons. Our state-of-the-art simulation labs provide students the opportunity to practice in a risk-free environment and build their confidence. Students taking a global health class in one of the University's many lecture halls. A class in the Brown Family Clinical Learning Laboratory. A BC nurse engages with a young patient in Nicaragua while participating in one of CSON's seven international programs. Bapst Library has been nationally recognized as one of the most beautiful libraries in higher education. A pediatric nurse practitioner student examines a young patient during her clinical placement. CSON's Simulation Laboratories include two control booths and viewing rooms to help prepare students for what they can expect during their clinical rounds and throughout their careers. CSON offers seven international programs to help its students better understand global issues and the diversity of health care needs. (A BC graduate student examines a child in Nicaragua.) These stained glass panels were transported from CSON's old home in Cushing Hall and reinstalled in Maloney Hall. The Pinning Ceremony (pictured here in 1965) has been an important tradition at the School of Nursing since its founding in 1947. The Brown Family Clinical Learning Laboratory is a 2,000-square-foot work and learning space with 12 hospital beds, low-fidelity manikins, and task-training models. Students practice on each other in the Brown Family Clinical Learning Laboratory, a 2,000-square-foot work and learning space. Students and faculty work through a simulation of providing end-of-life care. Students walk across Middle Campus at sunset with Gasson Hall in the background. Maloney Hall, home to the Connell School, features state-of-the-art facilities, including the Brown Family Clinical Learning Laboratory, the Simulation Lab, four examination rooms, and the Student Learning Commons. Our state-of-the-art simulation labs provide students the opportunity to practice in a risk-free environment and build their confidence. Students taking a global health class in one of the University's many lecture halls. A class in the Brown Family Clinical Learning Laboratory. A BC nurse engages with a young patient in Nicaragua while participating in one of CSON's seven international programs. Bapst Library has been nationally recognized as one of the most beautiful libraries in higher education. A pediatric nurse practitioner student examines a young patient during her clinical placement. CSON's Simulation Laboratories include two control booths and viewing rooms to help prepare students for what they can expect during their clinical rounds and throughout their careers. CSON offers seven international programs to help its students better understand global issues and the diversity of health care needs. (A BC graduate student examines a child in Nicaragua.) These stained glass panels were transported from CSON's old home in Cushing Hall and reinstalled in Maloney Hall. The Pinning Ceremony (pictured here in 1965) has been an important tradition at the School of Nursing since its founding in 1947. The Brown Family Clinical Learning Laboratory is a 2,000-square-foot work and learning space with 12 hospital beds, low-fidelity manikins, and task-training models. Students practice on each other in the Brown Family Clinical Learning Laboratory, a 2,000-square-foot work and learning space. Students and faculty work through a simulation of providing end-of-life care. Students walk across Middle Campus at sunset with Gasson Hall in the background. Maloney Hall, home to the Connell School, features state-of-the-art facilities, including the Brown Family Clinical Learning Laboratory, the Simulation Lab, four examination rooms, and the Student Learning Commons. Our state-of-the-art simulation labs provide students the opportunity to practice in a risk-free environment and build their confidence. Students taking a global health class in one of the University's many lecture halls. A class in the Brown Family Clinical Learning Laboratory. A BC nurse engages with a young patient in Nicaragua while participating in one of CSON's seven international programs. Bapst Library has been nationally recognized as one of the most beautiful libraries in higher education. A pediatric nurse practitioner student examines a young patient during her clinical placement. CSON's Simulation Laboratories include two control booths and viewing rooms to help prepare students for what they can expect during their clinical rounds and throughout their careers. CSON offers seven international programs to help its students better understand global issues and the diversity of health care needs. (A BC graduate student examines a child in Nicaragua.) These stained glass panels were transported from CSON's old home in Cushing Hall and reinstalled in Maloney Hall. The Pinning Ceremony (pictured here in 1965) has been an important tradition at the School of Nursing since its founding in 1947. « » The BC Nurse: First Steps Follow our nurses as they make their way through campus to Maloney Hall, and learn how a degree in nursing can lead to an extraordinary journey. Choose Your Program and Apply Quick Links Events & Traditions Current Students Why BC Nursing? Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Facts & Figures Back To Top Back To Top Connell School of Nursing Maloney Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Call: 617-552-4250 About Admission & Aid Academics Faculty & Research Clinical Experience Community Apply Visit Give Find Your Path Connect with Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College