Skip to main content Faculty Directory Giving Industry Partners Programs & Departments About Us Home Admissions▼ Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Spotlights Students▼ Undergraduate Students Graduate Students M.Eng. Students Research & Faculty▼ Faculty Centers and Facilities Strategic Areas of Research Undergraduate Research Diversity▼ DPE Programs & Events Current Students Prospective Students & Outreach Career Development Partnerships About DPE Alumni▼ Alumni Spotlights Bill Nye Solar Noon Clock Alumni Events Contact AAD Cornell Engineering Store Distinguished Alumni Award Enterprise Engineering Colloquium Students Support Volunteer Open the search panel Menu Search Close Research & Faculty Cornell Engineering’s leadership in research is evident through its current roster of world-class faculty and researchers, as well as its many centers and facilities. See our Programs & Departments Are you, or your company/business, foundation, or non-profit agency interested in exploring a project or research with the College of Engineering? The Office of Corporate and Foundation Relations can help bridge connections. Below is a link to a form that will assist our office in determining how to best serve your project or research goals and connect you to the right faculty and staff members to support your partnership objectives. Research or Project Questions and Overview More information about research and faculty Faculty Profiles of new faculty members and information for current and prospective faculty Explore Subtopics New Faculty Profiles Resources for Faculty Prospective Faculty Strategic Areas of Research Descriptions of the four strategic research areas that tie together much of the world-improving work happening at Cornell Engineering Explore Subtopics Advanced Materials Energy and the Environment Complex Systems, Network Science and Computation Bioengineering Additional Research Topics Centers and Facilities Links to the world-class research centers and facilities hosted at Cornell Explore Subtopics Reservations New Faculty Profiles Stories about our faculty and their research Undergraduate Research Information for undergraduates hoping to have a research opportunity for pay or for academic credit Explore Subtopics Find a Mentor Student Grant Program For Pay or For Credit Additional Research Opportunities Engineering College Leadership Did you know? CDMA (Code Division and Multiple Access) technology for cell phones was developed in 1989 by alum Irwin Jacobs , co-founder and former chairman of Qualcomm. This innovation greatly increased the number of calls cell phone towers could handle simultaneously and became the world’s fastest-growing and most advanced voice and data wireless communications technology. Professor Julius Lucks’ research on RNA is discovering new truths about what RNA does and what it impacts, crucial in discovering potential shortcuts in engineering tailor-made biological pathways that could advance discoveries in human health and medicine. Daniel Peter Loucks, (Ph.D. '65 Civil Engineering) is known worldwide for his leadership in the application of systems analysis to the fields of water resources and environmental engineering. In 1946, all incoming College freshmen were required to enroll in a five-year engineering degree program. Former Dean S.C. Hollister (1937-1959) said implementing this five-year program was his “crowning achievement” for the College. In 2013, Prof. Uli Wiesner (MSE)and grad student Hiroaki Sai (M.S. 2011, PhD) announced the creation of a process for synthesizing hierarchical porous polymer films, which could be useful in applications ranging from catalysis to bioengineering. Contact Us About Us News Events Spotlights Staff Directory Intranet Reserve Duffield Hall Main Address: Carpenter Hall 313 Campus Rd. Ithaca, New York 14853 Web Accessibility Assistance Connect with us Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved.