Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Academic Advising Center Main Navigation About Us Show Extended What We Do General Education General Grad Requirements Undeclared Academic Success Liberal Education Major and Minor Exploration Staff Faculty Development Certificate Faculty and Staff Training Videos Navigate Student App AAC Office Location Gordon Hall-123(formerly University Hall), 800 N State College Blvd, Fullerton, California 92831 Academic advising center hours Days Office Hours: Advising Hours: Monday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 3:30 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Tuesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Wednesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Thursday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Friday 8 am — 12 pm 8:30 am —11:30 am Phone : (657) 278-3606 Fax : (657) 278-7146 Contact Academic Advising Center Current Students Show Extended Freshmen Major Exploration Remediation Tutoring Services Undeclared Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop AAT/AST Assist.org GE breadth certification Seniors Graduation Requirements Applying for Graduation Graduation Specialists Mandatory Advising Workshops FAQs Continuing Students Undeclared Undeclared Students Show Extended Major Exploration Titan Major Exploration Program Exploring Majors Appointments Assessing Personal and Career Interests Exploring Careers Declare a Major Prospective Students Show Extended Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop Incomplete TDAs Returning Students Major Advising Re-enrollment Information Incoming First Time Freshman AP Scores and Transcripts Academic Success Show Extended IMPROVING GPA Repeats Grade Forgiveness Balanced Schedule Time Management Academic support resources University Learning Center English Department Writing Center CBE Tutoring Center OCSAMS CASECS Student Technology Services Academic Notice and Disqualification Academic Notice Academic Disqualification Fullerton Finish TitanNet Academic Planner Academic Notice and Disqualification Requirements Major Exploration GPA Calculator AAC Virtual Printable FERPA Release Form Titan Major Exploration Program Exploring Majors Major Exploration Advising Exploring Careers Major Exploration Events Declare a Major Assessing Personal and Career Interests Welcome to the Titan Major Exploration Program! As an undeclared student, you will find your home base within the Academic Advising Center! As a Titan Major Explorer, you will find the time until you declare your major (you must declare by 60 units) to be one full of adjustment, questioning and newfound learning. The Titan Major Exploration Program is designed to help influence and inform you about major/minor degree options available at CSUF for both academic interest and career paths. You will find between program workshops and advising, that you have a full team of support as you explore different areas to major in. Remember that being undeclared has some great benefits so please don’t feel frustrated if you can’t decide by your first or second semester! Take your time to get adjusted to CSUF and also to really explore our general education course plans in hopes of opening your eyes to all our amazing academic programs! Q&A About Being Undeclared/Major Exploration 1. Can I graduate in four years by starting off as an Undeclared student? Yes! Depending on the type of major you declare, it is very possible to finish within four years. It is not uncommon that we have Undeclared students finish in four years. Although, some academic programs are high unit degrees with pre-requisites so this might take extra time. 2. Is there a deadline to declare a major as an Undeclared student? Yes, you must declare your major by the time you reach 60 units. 3. What if I have no idea what to major in? Don’t worry! College students change their major all the time because your interests will change as you grow at CSUF! Major Exploration advising is offered with our Major Exploration Coordinator, Victoria Barrera Hamdi. Click here to learn about how to schedule an appointment. 4. As an Undeclared student, where do I go for advising? Great question! Your home department as an Undeclared student is with the Academic Advising Center (AAC) in GH-123B. We have a team of advisors to assist you! 5. What’s the fastest/easiest major? Every academic program at CSUF is rigorous so there isn’t an easy major. As for time to complete your degree, it varies by person to person. For many majors, you need to complete 120 units and finish all GE/major requirements in order to graduate. Yet, some majors require more units—always seek major advising to be sure you have an academic plan to take all required courses. In addition, visit the AAC to ensure you are on track with your GE requirements. 6. I know what I want to major in! How do I declare my major? Great! You will want to visit your new department directly and they will assist you with changing your major. If you need the form, you can find it here. Also! Be sure to obtain major advising from your new department for the upcoming semester. This site is maintained by Academic Advising Center. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact zz-pasharma@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.