Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Salina Academics Premedical Programs MD Program Admission & Aid Curriculum Lukert Society Student and Faculty Awards Standardized Patient Program Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Salina Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Salina Academics School of Medicine Salina Academics Academics Premedical Programs MD Program Admission & Aid Curriculum Lukert Society Student and Faculty Awards Standardized Patient Program Student Affairs Student Affairs Policies and Procedures Counseling and Support Services Health Care for Students About About From the Dean Faculty & Staff Salina Facilities Our Community Contact Information Make a Gift Academics Salina Student and Faculty Awards KUSM-Salina Graduating Student Awards Henry S. Dreher, Jr., M.D. Award for Excellence in Internal Medicine Awarded to a graduating medical student on the Salina campus of Kansas University School of Medicine who performed exceptionally on the required internal medicine clerkship and who has consistently displayed compassion, professionalism, and a relentless quest for knowledge during his or her clinical clerkships, in memory of Dr. Henry S. Dreher, Jr. who practiced at Mowery Clinic in Salina for 45 years. Janney Family Award in Physical Diagnosis-SalinaAwarded to a fourth-year medical student who excels in physical diagnosis at the Salina campus of the University of Kansas School of Medicine. Rural Medicine Award Awarded to a graduating medical student on the Salina campus who has displayed a dedication to rural medicine, especially in Kansas. The honored student demonstrated an interest in the healthcare needs of rural Kansas, expressed a desire to eventually practice in rural Kansas, and has been actively involved in the area of rural medicine through participation in the Rural Medicine Interest Group and the summer Rural Primary Care Practice and Research Program and working with rural physicians during clinical clerkships. Family Medicine Award Awarded to a graduating medical student on the Salina campus who performed exceptionally well on the required family medicine clerkship, has consistently displayed compassion, professionalism and a relentless quest for knowledge in other clerkships, and desires to pursue a career in family medicine. Robert W. Weber, M.D. and Patricia Ann Weber Award for Outstanding Scholarship and Professionalism Awarded to a graduating medical student on the Salina campus who displayed outstanding scholarship and professionalism during their four years on the Salina campus. Faculty Awards Each year the Salina campus honors local faculty members who have displayed exemplary teaching in the foundational sciences (Phase I) and in the clinical clerkships (Phase 2). KU School of Medicine-Salina KU School of Medicine-Salina Health Education Center 138 N. Santa Fe Salina, KS 67401 Phone: 785-822-0400 KU School of Medicine-Salina Facebook page Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.