Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] Employers Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Alumni About» History Academics» Doctoral Program Master of Science Program Master of Science in Carbon Management Program Undergraduate Program Funding Opportunities Research» Research Opportunities for Students Research Scientists Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources» EEE Resources Professional Societies Library Resources Careers» Students Alumni Employers Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Bulletin Earth and Environmental Engineering Welcome Faculty Research Welcome Faculty Research A Better Planet By Design Enabling the sustainable and equitable use Earth's resources is the dominant challenge of our time. Global population growth, urbanization and industrialization led to an improved human development index. But this ad hoc growth has rapidly consumed natural resources and resulted in extensive waste and environmental degradation. Despite the successes of the modern era, increased productivity and growth now threaten human health and catalyze climate change. Needed are better engineering solutions for a planet with sustained and equitable human development that treat classic "externalities" as first-class design goals. The Department of Earth and Environmental Engineering (EEE) is a small, diverse, and outwardly facing team actively researching and developing solutions to these complex and multidisciplinary problems. EEE reconciles a deep concern for the environment with the needs of a global industrialized society. Through conscientious stewardship of our finite natural resources: minerals, energy, water, air and land, EEE pioneers crucial new environmental initiatives. Our Award-Winning Faculty Our faculty is made up of internationally recognized researchers, investigators, and teachers in Earth and Environmental Engineering. Faculty Directory Pioneering Environmental Initiatives The Earth and Environmental Engineering program at Columbia University is committed to performing research that is engaging and impactful. Learn More News » Press Release Vasilis Fthenakis Wins the 2022 Böer Solar Energy Medal of Merit Fthenakis’ pioneering work in solar energy recognized with one of the most prestigious awards in renewable energy More Apr 07 2022 | By Allison Chen Ponisseril Somasundaran, LaVon Duddleson Krumb Professor of Mineral Engineering, has been elected as a Foreign Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences, India (NASI). NASI is oldest Science Academy of India, established in the year 1930 by a group of world famous scientists led by Prof. Meghnad Saha (the Founder President). More Dec 01 2021 A Former Student And A Researcher In Prof. Park's Group, Dr. Xiaozhou Sean Zhou, Was Selected As The Entrepreneur By The Mit Technology Review Xiaozhou Sean Zhou, Co-Founder and CEO, Greenore Technology Limited and former Associate Research Scientist in the Department of Earth and Environmental More Oct 31 2021 EEE Student Attends Climate Talks in Glasgow EEE sophomore Andrew Fagerheim will be attending the United Nations COP26 climate conference in Glasgow, Scotland this November as a delegate for The Wild More Oct 22 2021 Prof. Robert J. Farrauto from the department of Earth and Environmental Engineering received two awards from the Department of Energy Bench-Scale Development of a Novel Direct Air Capture Technology Using High-Capacity Sorbents and Dual Function Materials for Direct Air Capture of CO2" Funding More Oct 08 2021 Engineering For Humanity Campaign Runtime 1:20 Our vision—Columbia Engineering for Humanity—sets a bold path for a sustainable, healthy, secure, connected, and creative humanity. It is exemplified by the pioneering work our faculty and students are doing across departments and disciplines, in partnership with sister schools, institutes, government, and industry. We have never been more optimistic about the role engineering can play in the service of society and in bringing those advances to the many challenges facing our world. See the impact Columbia Engineering is having today. Soundtrack by $3.33 Engineering For Humanity Campaign Runtime 1:20 Our vision—Columbia Engineering for Humanity—sets a bold path for a sustainable, healthy, secure, connected, and creative humanity. It is exemplified by the pioneering work our faculty and students are doing across departments and disciplines, in partnership with sister schools, institutes, government, and industry. We have never been more optimistic about the role engineering can play in the service of society and in bringing those advances to the many challenges facing our world. See the impact Columbia Engineering is having today. Soundtrack by $3.33 The Columbia Electrochemical Energy Center Launch Runtime 3:43 Columbia Engineering has launched a new research center, the Columbia Electrochemical Energy Center (CEEC), to address energy storage and conversion using batteries and fuel cells in transformative ways. Watch how the center tackles new energy solutions from atoms to the grid. This multi-faceted approach is driven by collaborations between participants from many disciplines. Engineering for Humanity: SUSTAINABLE Runtime 0:41 EXCELLENCE LEADERSHIP IMPACT Earth and Environmental Engineering MASTER OF SCIENCE PROGRAMS feature a flexible curriculum, research and internship opportunities, interaction with industry professionals, and career development services and events. GRE optional for the 2021 application cycle. Learn More and Apply Earth and Environmental Engineering Summer Seminar Series For more information, please visit the LINK. 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University sitemap