Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School Academic Events & Honors Awards Wilson DeBlois Award Graduate School Skip to Navigation Wilson DeBlois Award The Brown University Graduate Student Council confers the Wilson-DeBlois Award annually to a staff member who has made outstanding contributions to doctoral students and the Graduate School. The Wilson-DeBlois Award is named in honor of George Grafton Wilson and Austen K. DeBlois, recipients of Brown’s first Doctor of Philosophy degrees in 1889. The award is given annually on behalf of all Brown doctoral students to express their appreciation for the recipient’s dedication and commitment to graduate students at the University. It is presented at the Doctoral Commencement Ceremony in May. Nominations for the Wilson-DeBlois Award should be made through UFunds, found under the Graduate Student and Alumni Awards. Deadline: Friday, March 4, 2022 at 5 pm EDT. Questions should be sent to [email protected]. Maija HallsmithCurrent and former recipients of the Wilson-DeBlois Award: 2021 Maija Hallsmith, Program Assistant for Diversity Initiatives at the Graduate School Read more about Maija's award. 2020 Marlina Duncan, Associate Dean of Diversity Initiatives and Assistant Vice President for Academic Diversity Read more about Marlina and the Wilson-Deblois award. 2019 Vanessa Ryan, Co-Deputy Dean and Associate Dean of Student Development, Graduate School 2018 Catherine Hanni, Academic Department Manager, Egyptology and Assyriology 2017 Dr. Shontay Delalue, Assistant Provost for Global Engagement and Director of the Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship Program, Office of Global Engagement 2016 Melissa Nicholaus, Student Affairs Coordinator for the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 2015 Angelica Vargas, Academic Programs Manager in the Economics Department 2014 Brian Walton, Associate Dean for Administration and Program Development, Graduate School Gail Lee, Payroll Specialist, Graduate School 2013 Janet Peters, Coordinator, Writing Center 2012 Dr. Gail Cohee, Director, Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender 2011 Chelsea Shriver, Administrative Coordinator (former), John Nicholas Brown Center 2010 Muriel Bessette, Graduate/Administrative Assistant, Sociology 2009 Pamela McNulty, Administrative Assistant/Dossier Service Coordinator, Brown University Career Development Center 2008 Nancy Picard, Administrative Manager, Brown University Graduate School 2007 Douglas Brown, Director, Brown University Writing Center 2006 Erma Wallace, Coordinator of Administrative Affairs, Brown University Graduate School 2005 Laura Hess, Associate Director for the Humanities and Social Sciences, The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Janet Rankin, Associate Director for Life Sciences and Physical Sciences, The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning 2004 Michael Diffily, Associate Dean, Brown University Graduate School Home About the Graduate School People Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Orientation Commencement Awards Events & Series Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants