Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Event Management, BS Create, Execute and Excel in the Event Industry Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) Rosen College of Hospitality Management Department(s) Tourism, Events and Attraction 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Gain a Solid Foundation in Organizing and Leading Top-Scale Events Event planning is a highly complex and dynamic field that comes with many challenges and opportunities. The BS in Event Management program provides you with the theoretical and practical tools needed to lead the future of the event industry. Our program provides you with a toolbox of resources, best practices and other skills needed to succeed. Your courses will cover a broad set of skills that prepare you to manage small to large-scale events — from inception to implementation. Learn from world-renowned educators who bring years of experience to the classroom. Explore topics such as event management, including risk management, marketing, finance and logistics while utilizing the newest technologies and emerging industry trends. Plus, you’ll gain greater insight into a wide range of events like fairs, festivals, entertainment and sporting events, meetings and tradeshows. As you progress through your studies, you’ll be ready to break into this fast-paced and rewarding industry from day one. Internships are a great way to put your skills to the test in real-world situations. You’ll need to complete three paid internships in the event industry prior to completing the program. This provides you with an opportunity to get hands-on experience, as well as make various connections with industry partners around the Central Florida community and beyond. After earning a degree in event management, many graduates go on to work in exciting positions with leading employers. You’ll also be prepared to continue on to graduate school if you choose to continue your educational journey. Related Programs: Entertainment Management Hospitality Management Restaurant and Foodservice Management Highlights Ranked in the top 5 among best colleges for hospitality and tourism in the world by CEOWorld magazine and in the ShanghaiRankings for research. Rosen grads have a 97% placement rate upon graduation — working for top industry employers, including Disney, Universal, Hilton, Marriott and the Orange County Convention Center. More than $225,000 in scholarships are awarded annually to provide students with access to affordable hospitality education. Study-abroad programs offer partnerships with 21 international universities, including Austria, Australia, Japan, China and the Netherlands. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview The Event Industry Overview of meetings, conventions, special events and exhibitions including the roles of organizations and people involved in the businesses that comprise this industry. Strategic Event Design The course focuses on the event planning process beginning with a needs assessment and ending with event evaluation. Event Technology Use of technology in the event industry to solidify processes and help people be more productive. Covers types of technology for different event processes. View All Event Management Courses You’ll Take Event Management Skills You'll Learn Manage events from inception to implementation Become an expert communicator — working with a wide variety of people on different teams Work through and find solutions for challenges that may arise Build a network of trusted professionals through classes and networking events Learn how to be adaptable given the ever-changing landscape of the industry Continue growing your professional skills and opportunities through development opportunities Career Opportunities Convention Service Manager Conference Event Consultant Event Venue Manager Event Planning Advisor Exhibits or Tradeshow Manager Meeting Manager Marketing and Event Coordinator Sales Coordinator/Manager Rosen College of Hospitality Management News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Turning Events into Careers UCF’s new master’s program in event leadership will bring a world of experience to the epicenter of this fast-growing industry. Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Medical Grad Putting Service at Forefront in Medicine As part of the UCF College of Medicine’s 10th graduating class, Michael Chiang ’20MS is the first Knight to earn a dual degree in medicine and… Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Colleges & Campus Knights Do That: Where Medicine and Hospitality Intersect Michael Chiang ’20MS, the first UCF student to graduate with a master’s in hospitality and a M.D. in emergency medicine, shares how he plans to… Degree Search Rosen College of Hospitality Management programs Bachelors Event Management (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies × Admission Requirements None Degree Requirements Students must earn a minimum 2.0 overall GPA in course work taken within the Rosen College of Hospitality Management, and a minimum 2.0 GPA in all courses listed in the common program prerequisites, the basic and advanced core courses, and the restricted electives. Students must earn a "C" (2.0) or better in each course listed in the common program prerequisites, the basic and advanced cores, and the restricted electives. Degree Requirements Hospitality Mgt Core 27 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: HFT2220 - Hospitality Human Resources Management (3) HFT2254 - Lodging Operations (3) HFT2401 - Hospitality Industry Financial Accounting (3) HFT2500 - Hospitality and Tourism Marketing (3) HFT3431 - Hospitality Industry Managerial Accounting (3) HFT3540 - Guest Services Management I (3) HFT4286 - Hospitality Communications (3) HFT4464 - Hospitality Industry Finance (3) Complete all of the following Earn at least 1 credits from the following: HFT3940 - Internship I (1 - 99) Earn at least 1 credits from the following: HFT4941 - Internship II (1 - 99) Earn at least 1 credits from the following: HFT4944 - Internship III (1 - 99) Event Mgt Core 27 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: HFT2750 - The Event Industry (3) HFT3443 - Event Technology (3) HFT3519 - Event Services (3) HFT3523 - Event Sales (3) HFT3670 - Hospitality and Event Risk Management (3) HFT4542 - Strategic Event Design (3) HFT3512 - Event Promotion (3) HFT4757 - Event Tourism Strategies (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: HFT4856 - Event Food and Beverage Strategies (3) FSS4286C - Catering Management (3) Restricted Electives 15 Total Credits Complete at least 5 of the following: HFT3391 - Experiences in Sporting Events (3) HFT3357 - Sport and Club Event Operations (3) HFT3364 - Dynamic Marketing of Sporting Events (3) HFT3798 - Fairs and Festivals (3) HFT4394 - Event Operations (3) HFT4561 - Destination Marketing & Management (3) HFT4754 - Exhibit and Trade Show Operations (3) HFT4796 - International Events (3) HFT4866C - Exploring Wines of the World (3) HFT4795 - Entertainment Arts and Events (3) Grand Total Credits: 69 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida