Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Spring 2021 Earth Institute Research Opportunities for Undergrads Education Spring 2021 Earth Institute Research Opportunities for Undergrads Undergraduates from Columbia and Barnard will be able to work with distinguished faculty on research projects related to sustainable development and the environment. By Earth Institute December 16, 2020 The Earth Institute at Columbia University is offering undergraduate students with research assistant opportunities during the spring 2021 semester. Undergraduates from Columbia and Barnard will be able to serve as research assistants on projects related to sustainable development and the environment with distinguished faculty and researchers at the cutting edge of this burgeoning field. While research assistant positions at Columbia are generally awarded to graduate students, this program instead aims to present undergraduates with a unique opportunity to be involved in research at a high level and to gain valuable experience and skills for their future academic and professional careers. Relevant research projects will be led by faculty, and the admissions committee will match students with projects based on their interests and abilities. Successful applicants will work directly with faculty on these projects on a part-time basis. These research assistantships are funded at a rate of $17 per hour for a maximum of 120 hours during the semester. All positions will take place remotely. The positions include: Predicting Arsenic Contamination and Heterogeneity in Groundwater Across Scales in Southeast Asia and the USA Developing a Harmonized Carbon Accounting Method: The Coalition on Materials Emissions Transparency Climate Resilience in Northern Manhattan and the South Bronx: Collaborative, Community-led Policy Research about Heat Vulnerability in New York City Strengthening Indigenous Marine Conservation in New Ireland, Papua New Guinea Onset of the Last Ice Age in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres Carbon Mineralization for CO2 Storage Methods Unstuck: How Communities and Whole Societies Can Get Trapped, and the Design of New Policies to Promote Development Impact of Volcanic Eruptions on the Climate of the Euro-Mediterranean Region During the Last Millennium To apply: Complete the online application available here by January 14, 2021 at 11:55pm. While you may apply for more than one position, you must submit separate applications for each. Decisions will be made shortly after the deadline. Students who are awarded internships will be expected to participate in the Earth Institute Student Research Showcase in spring 2021. Contact Cari Shimkus ([email protected]) with questions. 1. Predicting Arsenic Contamination and Heterogeneity in Groundwater Across Scales in Southeast Asia and the USA Department: Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Anticipated Tasks: The research assistant will work on compiling existing datasets and generating new data types. This data synthesis and analysis will be done using geospatial and visualization techniques. They will also develop mechanistic linkages with groundwater arsenic contamination. Additionally, the student will leverage machine learning to predict groundwater arsenic concentrations across special scales, pair these predictions with population density data to evaluate risk of exposure within communities, and finally integrate temporal climate data to evaluate future scenarios. Skills Required: Coursework in environmental science, geoscience, and statistics preferred. Proficiency and interest in data analysis. Familiarity and interest to learn geographical information system software and R statistical computing platform. Experience or interest in learning data graphing and visualization techniques in R. 2. Developing a Harmonized Carbon Accounting Method: The Coalition on Materials Emissions Transparency (COMET) Department: Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment Anticipated Tasks: The research assistant will play a critical role in assisting the CCSI team in gathering, synthesizing, and interpreting existing data and knowledge in the materials/carbon accounting field, thereby supporting the project team in preparing informed recommendations for building a harmonized carbon accounting method based on existing ones and reforming the material supply chains. Skills Required: Highly organized and responsive in high-pressure situations Strong research and analysis skills, including the ability to use academic databases and other online search techniques Strong time management skills Strong writing and communication skills Interest and experience in climate policy, energy/extractive industries, and carbon accounting preferred 3. Climate Resilience in Northern Manhattan and the South Bronx: Collaborative, Community-led Policy Research about Heat Vulnerability in New York City Department: Mailman School of Public Health Anticipated Tasks: The research assistant will conduct research of literature, help to prepare grant proposals, papers and reports to inform policy and help produce research publications, collect and process large environmental and public health datasets, and write blogs and other public materials to share updates about the project work. Skills Required: Strong interest in environmental, social and racial justice, and climate change Excellent managerial, communication, and analytical skills Strong self-motivation and an interest in managing big data Fluent in Spanish Experience with ArcGIS mapping or R helpful 4. Strengthening Indigenous Marine Conservation in New Ireland, Papua New Guinea Department: Center for the Study of Social Difference Anticipated Tasks: The research assistant will need to be able to read and ‘translate’ scientific articles into non-specialist, accessible language. Additionally, they will need to be able to conduct literature searches and reviews and build a website around the collected content. Finally, they will be communicating with Indigenous project leaders in New Ireland and the larger Western Pacific region. Skills Required: Able to locate, read, and distill information from scholarly papers and reports focused on climate change in the Western Pacific Excellent computer skills. Experience with website design strongly preferred Willingness to learn cross-cultural communication skills 5. Onset of the Last Ice Age in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres Department: Lamont–Doherty Earth Observatory Anticipated Tasks: The student will evaluate samples previously taken from two sediment cores, identify and quantify ice-rafted debris, determine the relative abundance of polar foraminifera species, and select and prepare specimens for isotopic analysis. They will apply visual and simple time-series analyses to assess the sequence of climate events at each location to compare to orbital theory ice age predictions. Training will be provided for all procedures. Skills Required: Training will be provided for all specific tasks and instrument use Diligence, carefulness, and a willingness to learn Familiarity with the Earth’s climate system, oceanography, and/or basic laboratory practices preferred Familiarity with a spreadsheet and plotting program (MS Excel or Google Sheets) and basic microscopy preferred 6. Carbon Mineralization for CO2 Storage Methods Department: Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Anticipated Tasks: The experimental nature of this work requires careful sample preparation and characterization. Research assistant tasks will include the preparation of sample cores using an array of methods to ensure an initial fracture network suitable for the experiments, including thermal cracking, single fracture introducing a known surface roughness, and uniaxial Brazil strength tests to produce analogue fractures to those found in nature. Further tasks include: the detail placing of strain gauges on core samples to characterize deformation during the reaction stages, assistance in data acquisition from piezoelectric transducers and acoustic emission sensors, fluid sampling, and data processing. Skills Required: Previous experience in optical, transmission, or scanning electron microscopy strongly preferred. Familiarity with Matlab strongly preferred. Prior experience working in a lab environment preferred. Interest and willingness to perform hands-on tasks. 7. Unstuck: How Communities and Whole Societies Can Get Trapped, and the Design of New Policies to Promote Development Department: Economics Anticipated Tasks: The research assistant will help find studies on behavioral economics interventions that aid vulnerable populations by addressing such issues as discrimination, low aspirations, cooperation, implicit bias, and lack of mentors and role models. They will then strengthen the literature review by finding cases of successful and failed replication of experiments discusses in the manuscript. The student will create a list of natural experiments that researchers have creatively used to assess causality in economic and sociology. Finally, the research assistant will help create the bibliography and review book chapters for the manuscript. Skills Required: Basic knowledge of economics and statistics Familiarity with and interest in behavioral economic approaches and policies Interest in research occurring in sociology, psychology, public policy, and related fields preferred 8. Impact of Volcanic Eruptions on the Climate of the Euro-Mediterranean Region During the Last Millennium Department: Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Anticipated Tasks: The research assistant will review existing literature to become familiar with what has been learned so far about the impact of volcanic eruptions worldwide and in the Euro-Mediterranean region. The student will use analysis tools such as the IRI Data Library browser tool to access OWDA and FHYDA to study the effect of historical volcanic eruptions on the climate of Europe and the Mediterranean during the eruption and after. The research assistant will summarize the results of the study in a written report. Skills Required: Perform literature searches online to identify relevant papers and book chapters. Use software packages (IRI Data Library browser took, Matlab and/or Python) to plot and analyze space-time gridded data. Basic knowledge of weather and climate physics preferred. Tags Center for the Study of Social Difference Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment education news Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Mailman School of Public Health research assistant positions undergraduate RAs News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close