Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES JACKSON SCHOOL INTERNATIONAL STUDIES JSIS AREA STUDIES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 JSIS A 110 Introduction to Russian Culture and Civilization (5) VLPA/I&S Introduction to Russian culture and history from pre-Christian times to the present, as seen through literary texts, music, film, visual art, and historical works. All lectures and written materials in English. No prior knowledge of Russian necessary. Offered: jointly with RUSS 110; A. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 110 JSIS A 121 Introduction to Human Rights in Latin America (5) I&S, DIV Godoy Overview of human rights issues and how they have evolved in recent Latin American history, from the military dictatorships of the authoritarian period to contemporary challenges faced in the region's democracies. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 121 JSIS A 130 Introduction to Slavic Culture and Civilization (5) VLPA Examines the culture of the Slavs, an ethno-linguistic group of peoples living primarily in Central/Eastern Europe. Among nations investigated: the Czech Republic, Russia, Poland, and Ukraine. Students gain a fundamental grasp of major issues and historical events of this region, expressed through culture. Offered: jointly with SLAVIC 130. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 130 JSIS A 154 Estonian Literary and Cultural History (5) VLPA G. Smidchens Surveys Estonian literary and cultural history from the prehistoric period to the present. Authors, musicians, artists, and filmmakers include Kaplinski, Koidula, Kreutzwald, Vilde, Part, Tormis, Meri, Parn, Pollu, and others. Offered: jointly with SCAND 154; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 154 JSIS A 202 Introduction to South Asian History, 1500 - present (5) I&S The Islamic impact, British conquest, and contemporary India. Emphasis on the rise of nationalism, social organization, and contemporary life and history. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 202. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 202 JSIS A 205 Filipino Histories (5) I&S, DIV Vicente L. Rafael Introduction to histories, cultures and politics of Filipinos and the Philippines. Examines pre-colonial societies, Spanish colonial rule, nationalism and Revolution, Filipino-American war, U.S colonial rule, Japanese occupation, postcolonial period to Martial Law, continuing rebellions, and the Filipino diaspora. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 205. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 205 JSIS A 206 Contemporary India and Pakistan (5) I&S Dhavan, Kale Interdisciplinary introduction to the field of South Asian Studies. Overview of the topographic, social, and linguistic geography and history of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and Nepal. Examines politics, economy, social structure, religion, cultural production and the arts, popular culture, and transnationalism. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 206 JSIS A 207 Asian Civilizations: Traditions (5) VLPA/I&S Porter Interdisciplinary introduction to the civilizations of Asia, particularly those of India, China, Japan, and Korea. Explores the religion, philosophy, literature, art, and social and political thought of these civilizations from ancient times to the 17th century. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 207 JSIS A 210 Introduction to Islamic Civilization (5) VLPA/I&S Covers major developments in the formative, classical, and modern periods of Islamic civilization from seventh century Arabia to the contemporary Muslim world. Looks at the development of Islamic religious thought and legal practice as well as the Muslim polities, cultures, and intellectual traditions of Asia, Africa, Europe, and America. May not be taken for credit if credit earned in NEAR E 210. Offered: jointly with NEAR E 229. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 210 JSIS A 211 Fashion Systems: Europe-Asia (5) VLPA/I&S R. Silberstein Introduces the historical development of fashion systems in early modern and modern Europe and Asia. Explores topics including: Fashioning the Body; Gender and Fashion; Fashion as Conspicuous Consumption; Fashion as Urban Spectacle; the Politics of Fashion. Offered: jointly with ART H 211. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 211 JSIS A 212 History of Korean Civilization (5) I&S From earliest times to the present. Development of Korean society and culture in terms of government organization, social and economic change, literature, and art. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 212. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 212 JSIS A 213 The Korean Peninsula and World Politics (5) I&S Ha Introduces Korean politics, economics, society, and international relations. Overviews the development in politics, economy, and society since the late nineteenth century. Addresses the evolution of Korea in the international society by comparing Korea experience with that of China and Japan. Offered: jointly with POL S 213. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 213 JSIS A 215 Introduction to the Modern Middle East (5) I&S Major social and political trends in the Middle East during the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries. Basic principles of Islam and its diversity, changing balance of power during the early modern period; European colonialism and withdrawal; pan-Arabism, nationalism, feminism and religious resurgence. Offered: jointly with NEAR E 232. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 215 JSIS A 220 Introduction to East European Studies (5) I&S Felak Introduction to the history of post-1945 Eastern Europe focusing on political, economic, social, cultural, and diplomatic issues. Countries surveyed include Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia. Offered: jointly with HSTEU 220. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 220 JSIS A 221 History of Southeast Asia (5) I&S, DIV Surveys Southeast Asian civilizations at the outset of Western colonial rule; the colonial impact on the traditional societies of Burma, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia, and the Philippines; nineteenth- and twentieth-century nationalist and revolutionary movements; emergence of Southeast Asia as a region in the modern world. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 221. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 221 JSIS A 224 Histories and Futures of the Book, Texts and Reading (5) VLPA/I&S From medieval manuscripts to commercially printed books to today's rapidly recycled digital content, explores how changing forms have shaped the ways texts have been read and understood, how the spread of printing technology impacted the modern world, how the book-form became dominant, and how a new media revolution (the mass digitization of texts) is again reshaping access to and understanding of the past. Offered: jointly with FRENCH 224/TXTDS 224. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 224 JSIS A 235 History of Modern Taiwan (5) I&S Social, cultural, political, and economic history of modern Taiwan from approximately 1600 to the present. Places Taiwan within global historical changes and explores Taiwan-centric issues in depth. Covers migration, colonialism, race and identity, urban and rural development, the Cold War, capitalism and industrialization, science, religion, labor, and gender. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 235. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 235 JSIS A 236 Development and Challenge in Greater China (5) I&S Studies the geography of development processes, patterns, and problems in "Greater China": mainland China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Covers physical geography, history, and economic and political systems, with major focus on geographical issues in China's development: agriculture, population, industry and trade, and relations with Hong Kong and Taiwan. Offered: jointly with GEOG 236. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 236 JSIS A 239 Greece: From Ancient to Modern (5) VLPA/I&S A. HOLLMANN, N. KLAPAKI How are Ancient and Modern Greece connected to each other? Learn about great moments in Ancient Greek culture (tyranny and democracy, tragedy and comedy, athletics and art) and the complex ways Modern Greece has drawn on this heritage by exploring ancient and modern texts and images. Offered: jointly with CLAS 239. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 239 JSIS A 240 Greece Today: The Mediterranean, Europe, and the World (5) I&S N. KLAPAKI Introduction to current political, social, economic and cultural issues in Greece, including Greece's relations with the European Union and its Mediterranean neighbors. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 240 JSIS A 241 Japanese Civilization (5) I&S Japan's civilization, including its origins, government, literature, economic institutions, material culture, social organization, and religions, in relation to the development of Japan as a society and nation. Cannot be taken for credit if SISEA 341 previously taken. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 241. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 241 JSIS A 242 Introduction to Contemporary Japan (5) I&S R. Pekkanen Interdisciplinary social science introduction to various aspects of contemporary Japan, such as its politics, economics, and society. Designed to be taken either as a first course on Japan for majors or as a single-course introduction to Japan., suitable for non-majors. No prior background on Japan is necessary. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 242 JSIS A 244 Imperialism and Anti-Colonialism in Asia (5) I&S, DIV Introduction to Western imperialism expansion, conquest, and colonial rule in Asia; the anti-colonial, nationalist resistances they engendered; and the resultant cultural, political, economic, and intellectual transformations in Asian societies. Covers post-1800 violence, racial hierarchies, human rights abuses, post-colonial memories, persistent strategies of domination, and structural inequities. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 244. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 244 JSIS A 245 Human Rights in Asia (5) I&S, DIV Callahan, Giebel Introduction to recent and ongoing human rights issues in South, Southeast, and East Asia. Focuses on how human rights politics have played out in domestic political arenas. Provides exposure to views/insights into the historical context in which human rights claims, abuses, and debates arise. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 245. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 245 JSIS A 251 Events That Shook Modern Europe: From the French Revolution to the EU (5) I&S J. Felak Examines major events that shaped Europe, from French Revolution in 1789 to the foundation of the European Union in 1993. Wars, revolutions, social transformations, toxic ideologies, and liberation movements as milestones in the course of developments in Europe over the past two centuries. Lectures and analysis of documents from these time periods. Offered: jointly with HSTEU 251; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 251 JSIS A 252 The Bloodlands: East Central Europe under Hitler and Stalin (5) I&S J. Felak From 1933-1945, 14 million people were killed, in cold blood, by Nazi Germany and Soviet Union regimes between central Poland and western Russia, including those starved in the Soviet Ukraine famine, victims of Stalin's Great Terror and Hitler's Holocaust, Soviet citizens starved by Nazis during World War II & Poles murdered under joint Nazi-Soviet occupation. Course investigates these fateful events through study of history, literature & film. Offered: jointly with HSTEU 252. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 252 JSIS A 254 Modern China: Three Revolutions (5) I&S Y. Dong Surveys Chinese history from the late nineteenth century to the end of the twentieth century. Examines how "modern China" took shape by focusing on the transformations and changes in the political system, economic structure, social organization, and intellectual trends. In particular, examines the three revolutions of modern China -- the Republican, Nationalist, and Communist revolutions. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 254. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 254 JSIS A 260 Fashion, Nation, and Culture (5) VLPA/I&S Gaylard Introduction to Italian culture focusing on fashion and manners from the late Middle Ages to today. Explores common assumptions about nation, gender, clothes, make-up, and manners, through literary and visual analysis. In English. Offered: jointly with ART H 260/ITAL 260; W. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 260 JSIS A 261 Turkic Peoples of Central Asia (3) I&S History of the Turkic peoples, AD 552 to present. Emphasis on current status of Turkic peoples in Central Asia. Geographical distribution, demographic data, reactions and adaptations to changes resulting from the 1917 revolution. Turkic viewpoint on past and present developments. Offered: jointly with NEAR E 261. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 261 JSIS A 265 The Viet Nam Wars (5) I&S Giebel Recent Vietnamese history and struggles for independence and national unification vis-a-vis French colonialism, Japanese occupation, American intervention, and internal divisions. Covers historical roots and contemporary contexts of revolution and war, objectives and motivations of participants, and the enormous human costs. Emphasizes socio-cultural changes and wars' legacies. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 265. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 265 JSIS A 268 Introduction to the Silk Road (5) I&S Introduces students to the Silk Road as a site of cultural exchange between peoples, and of political, economic, and intellectual exchange between regions and continents. Themes include ecology, empire, ethnicity, language, religion, and the arts. Considers the Silk Road as a forerunner and symbol of modern globalization. Offered: jointly with NEAR E 268. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 268 JSIS A 270 Native Peoples of the Northwest Coast (5) I&S, DIV Dian Million, Charlotte Cote Examines indigenous societies on the Pacific Northwest's western slope, from southeast Alaska to California, including social structures and relations, subsistence strategies, belief systems, and changes over time, both before and after non-Natives' arrival. Offered: jointly with AIS 270. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 270 JSIS A 280 Indigenous Encounters: Politics, Culture, and Representation in Latin America (5) I&S, DIV Garcia Explores the contemporary cultural and political transformations advanced by indigenous groups and their advocates in Latin America. Examines the concept of indigeneity, the cultural politics of indigenous mobilization, and the effects of international development policies on indigenous communities. Offered: jointly with CHID 280. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 280 JSIS A 301 Europe Today (5) I&S Ingebritsen, Lang A multi-disciplinary approach to contemporary Europe focusing on social, political, cultural, and economic change, with special reference to developments in the countries of the European Union, Scandinavia, and those in Eastern Europe in the post-Soviet era. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 301 JSIS A 302 The Politics and Cultures of Europe (5) I&S Builds upon themes and topics introduced in JSIS A 301. Provides rigorous and specialized investigation of European political institutions, societies, and cultures in the modern era. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 302 JSIS A 303 Divided Lands/Divided Lives: An Environmental History of South Asia (5) Focuses on the mobilization of South Asian tribal, peasant, and ethnic communities around ecological issues to secure social equity in the colonial and post-colonial period. Examines how the complex interactions of states and peoples have changed the ways in which nature itself is conceptualized. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 303. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 303 JSIS A 304 Contemporary European Migration (5) I&S Provides a theoretical and empirical understanding of contemporary migration processes and patterns in Europe. Introduces the different migration regimes and integration practices of selected European states. Analyzes the impact of globalization, the ever-changing role of the European Union, and the importance of international, national, and urban policy on immigrant lives. Offered: jointly with GEOG 303; W. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 304 JSIS A 305 Changing Generations in Japan and East Asia (5) I&S Investigates the relation between economic changes and social changes by focusing on the conditions confronting young people in East Asia. Focuses on the issue of generational change regionally and globally through an anthropological lens, using ethnographic methods centering on japan and other East Asian countries. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 305 JSIS A 314 History of Modern Israel/Palestine (5) I&S, DIV Cultural, social, and political histories of Palestine, the Land of Israel, and the State of Israel; Zionist and Palestinian nationalist movements, in their larger regional, transnational, and global contexts. Offered: jointly with HSTAFM 314. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 314 JSIS A 315 Southeast Asian Civilization: Buddhist and Vietnamese (5) I&S, DIV Civilizations of Theravada Buddhist societies in Burma, Thailand, Cambodia, and Laos and in Vietnamese societies of Southeast Asia. Culture of tribal peoples who live on peripheries of these societies. Cultural transformations consequent upon the war in Indochina and resettlement of Indochinese refugees in United States. Offered: jointly with ANTH 315. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 315 JSIS A 316 Modern South Asia (5) I&S Twentieth-century history and society of Indian subcontinent. Topics include nationalism, rural and urban life, popular culture, gender, and environmental politics. Offered: jointly with ANTH 316. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 316 JSIS A 317 History by Bollywood: Colonial India through Film (5) I&S, DIV Anand A Yang Through popular cinema, specifically Hindi-language films produced by Bombay-based film industry for mass market, explores colonial history of South Asia beginning with British takeover of Indian subcontinent in late eighteenth century to emergence of independence and partition in 1947. Focuses specifically on Bollywood films that have shaped popular (mis)understandings of key episodes and developments in history of modern India. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 317. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 317 JSIS A 320 Greek History: 7000 BC to Present (5) I&S History of Greece from its Neolithic village origins to the present. Examines the different forms of one of the most resilient cultures in the human story. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 320. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 320 JSIS A 321 Government and Politics of Canada (5) I&S Critical analysis of parliamentary institutions, political parties, and the federal system in Canada. Offered: jointly with POL S 341. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 321 JSIS A 322 International Political Economy of Latin America (5) I&S V. MENALDO Exploration of politics underlying Latin America's economic development. Topics covered include import-substituting industrialization, mercantilism, the debt crisis, neoliberalism, market integration, and poverty. Review of major theoretical perspectives such as modernization theory, dependency, and the new political economy. Offered: jointly with POL S 322. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 322 JSIS A 323 United States-Latin American Relations (5) I&S Surveys the political, economic, and social dimensions and consequences of United States relations with Latin America during the twentieth century. Topics include empire, immigration, cultural production, covert operations, revolution and counter-insurgency, student movements, human rights, and the war on drugs. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 323 JSIS A 324 Human Rights in Latin America (5) I&S, DIV A. Godoy Overview of human rights issues and their recent evolution in Latin American history; military dictatorships; contemporary challenges in the region's democracies. Human rights concerns in relation to broader sociopolitical context. Offered: jointly with LSJ 322. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 324 JSIS A 325 Modern Mexico: Culture, Politics and Society (5) I&S V. Freije Provides an historical survey of Mexican politics, culture, and society. Explores debates about the role of violence and foreign intervention in Mexico's political development. Topics include revolution, U.S.-Mexico relations, race and gender politics, student movements, cultural production, neoliberalism, and the war on drugs. Offered: jointly with HSTLAC 325. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 325 JSIS A 327 China and the West in Historical Perspective, 1500-1976 (5) I&S M. MOSCA Examines relations between China and the West in historical perspective. Covers the period from 1500 to 1976, including political interactions as well as intellectual, religious, and cultural contact. Investigates how and why these relations changed over time, and how this historical legacy is relevant today. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 327. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 327 JSIS A 328 Gender and Sexuality in China (5) I&S, DIV Explores gender and sexuality in China's process of modernization, from the late Qing dynasty through the building of the Republic, Communist revolution, and post-Mao economic reform. Examines, through historical, anthropological, and cultural studies scholarship, the centrality of these social constructs in terms of family, state, labor, body, and ethnicity. Offered: jointly with ANTH 328/GWSS 328. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 328 JSIS A 339 Social Movements in Contemporary India (5) I&S, DIV P. RAMAMURTHY Covers issues of social change, economic development, and identity politics in contemporary India studied through environmental and women's movements. Includes critiques of development and conflicts over forests, dams, women's rights, religious community, ethnicity, and citizenship. Offered: jointly with ANTH 339/GWSS 339. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 339 JSIS A 340 Politics of India, Pakistan, and South Asia (5) I&S Course promotes a deeper understanding of politics in South Asia. Topics include political regimes, civil conflict, religion and politics, and economic development. Students also sharpen skills in reading social science articles, including picking out arguments, evidence, and logics of presentation. Offered: jointly with POL S 340. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 340 JSIS A 341 Political Violence and the Post-Colonial State in South Asia (5) I&S, DIV Examines theoretical approaches to the analysis of collective, state, and anti-state violence in post-colonial South Asia through the study of specific cases of political violence in modern India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and Nepal. Offered: jointly with ANTH 341. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 341 JSIS A 342 Government and Politics of Latin America (5) I&S Analysis of the political dynamics of change in Latin America comparing various national approaches to the political problems of modernization, economic development, and social change. Offered: jointly with POL S 342. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 342 JSIS A 343 Politics and Change in Southeast Asia (5) I&S Government and politics in the countries of Southeast Asia, with attention given to the nature of the social and economic environments that condition them. Offered: jointly with POL S 343. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 343 JSIS A 344 The Baltic States and Scandinavia (5) I&S Survey of the cultures and history of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania from the Viking Age to the present, with particular attention to Baltic-Scandinavian contacts. Offered: jointly with SCAND 344. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 344 JSIS A 345 Baltic Cultures (5) VLPA/I&S Cultures and peoples of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Baltic literature, music, art, and film in social and historical context. Traditional contacts with Scandinavia and Central and East Europe. Offered: jointly with SCAND 345. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 345 JSIS A 346 Alternative Routes to Modernity (5) I&S Routes to modernity followed by non-Western societies between 1600 and 1900. Historical experiences of non-Western societies seen in the context of European history and of development theory. Emphasizes primary sources and techniques for posing theoretical questions of historical data. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 348. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 346 JSIS A 348 European Union as Global Actor (5) I&S Surveys the European Union's evolution as a global actor and emergence as a potential superpower with increasingly unified foreign and defense policies. Covers institutions and interests that have driven this process; specific examples of European Union global engagement; and the potential implications for U.S. foreign policy. Offered: jointly with POL S 348. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 348 JSIS A 349 Migration and Multiculturalism in the Mediterranean (5) I&S Examines multiculturalism and migration in the Mediterranean. Focuses on immigrant communities of Greek diaspora in multicultural cities of Smyrna in nineteenth century Ottoman Empire, and of Alexandria in twentieth century Egypt. Considers how immigration to contemporary Greece transformed an ethnically homogeneous, mono-cultural Greek society into an increasingly multicultural one. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 349 JSIS A 350 United States - Europe Relations (5) I&S D. Bessner Examines history of the United States-Europe relationship from the eighteenth century to the present, focusing on political, economic, and cultural connections, as well as the foreign policies that have undergirded this relationship from its inception. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 350 JSIS A 351 Scandinavia, the European Union, and Global Climate Change (5) I&S Reviews the history of climate change, the role of Swedish scientist Svante Arrhenius in defining greenhouse effects, Scandinavian policy response, and the role of the European Union in global climate change. Offered: jointly with SCAND 351; WSp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 351 JSIS A 354 Narcoculture: Propaganda and Publicity in the War on Drugs (5) I&S Representation of so-called narcos in inter-American media and culture since the 1970s. Students critically analyze U.S. films, Colombian soap operas, Mexican ballads, and state propaganda dedicated to portraying traffickers' exploits. Centering on the ethical question of how to portray drug-related violence, introduces students to debates about censorship, propaganda, the public sphere, and spectacle. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 354 JSIS A 355 Social Change in Latin America (5) I&S Explores cultures, identities, political economy, and popular mobilization in Latin America. Examines relations of power and production between social classes and ethnic groups, as well as ideologies and intellectual movements. Offered: jointly with SOC 355. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 355 JSIS A 356 Canadian Society (5) I&S Origins to the present in its North American setting; political development, cultural evolution, and emergence of multinationalism; economic base; arts and literature; problems of the environment; Canadian foreign relations. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 356 JSIS A 357 Peoples and Cultures of Central and Inner Asia (5) I&S Introduces Central and Inner Asia with a multidisciplinary, comparative survey of the cultures and societies of contemporary China's Inner Asia (Mongolia, Xinjiang-Eastern Turkestan, Tibet, and Manchuria), the contemporary Muslim Central Asian republics (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan), and the adjacent areas of Afghanistan and Iran. Offered: jointly with ANTH 357/NEAR E 357. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 357 JSIS A 360 Contemporary Spain (5) VLPA/I&S Social, political, and cultural developments in Spain since the end of the Franco dictatorship in 1975. Extensive use of Spanish Web sites. Prerequisite: either SPAN 301, SPAN 302, SPAN 303, SPAN 310, SPAN 314, SPAN 315, SPAN 316, or SPAN 330. Instructors: Raneda Offered: jointly with SPAN 360. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 360 JSIS A 362 The Political Economy of Africa (5) I&S, DIV Focuses on the political economy of governance, development, and conflict in sub-Saharan African countries since independence. Explores the political and economic choices made by Africa's colonial and post-colonial regimes and connects them to current events in sub-Saharan Africa. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 362 JSIS A 364 Modern Greece: 1821 to the Present (5) I&S Politics and society of Greece from War of Independence to the present. Emergence and development of the Greek state; Greece in the world wars; civil war and post-war politics; military dictatorship; transition to democracy; recent developments. No prior study of Greece assumed. Offered: jointly with HSTEU 364. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 364 JSIS A 365 Mapping Luso-Brazilian Cultures (5) I&S/VLPA Explores cultures of Brazil, Portuguese-speaking Africa, Asia, and Europe within the framework of cultural studies theory. Follows an interdisciplinary approach, drawing from readings, audio files (radio), films and documentaries in history, literature, arts and performances, anthropology, among others. Focuses on selected cultural aspects and countries. Taught in ENGLISH. Offered: jointly with PORT 365; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 365 JSIS A 367 Southeast Asian Activism and Social Engagement (5) I&S Rafael Investigates how Southeast Asian activism is tied to the histories of political struggle within Southeast Asia and to questions of diasporic Asian American identity. Engages in group research projects exploring the meaning of social activism within local communities. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 367. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 367 JSIS A 370 Han Chinese Society and Culture (5) I&S Themes in the society and culture of the Han Chinese people. Concepts of self; personal interaction; family, gender, and marriage; communities and the state; religion and ritual; class, social categories, and social mobility; culturalism, nationalism, and patriotism. Offered: jointly with ANTH 370. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 370 JSIS A 375 History of Canada (5) I&S General survey and analysis of political, economic, social, and cultural aspects of Canadian history from the foundation of New France to present; Canadian-American relations, the rise of Quebec nationalism, and the development of the Canadian West. Offered: jointly with HSTAA 377. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 375 JSIS A 401 Asia and the World (5) I&S Overview of major issues and developments in the interactions of Northeast and Southeast Asia and he world. Topics include economic development and integration, sources of instability, and historical patterns of relations. Particular focus on major current issues related to the region. Prerequisite: JSIS 201, JSIS 202. Instructors: Bachman View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 401 JSIS A 402 The Middle East in the Modern World (5) I&S Kasaba Economic, political, and cultural ties between the Middle East and the modern world between the eighteenth century and the present. Particular attention to the transformation of societies, formation of modern states, the relationship between Islam and democracy, and gender and society in the Middle East. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 402 JSIS A 403 Politics of Representation in Modern China (5) I&S, DIV A. ANAGNOST Focuses on issues of representation and power in twentieth century China. Combines substantive information on modern Chinese society and culture with recent debates in social theory and the politics of representation. Major themes include Chinese nationalism, body politics, popular culture, and everyday practice. Offered: jointly with ANTH 444. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 403 JSIS A 404 Religion in China (5) I&S Tokuno Covers major doctrinal and practical themes and patterns and their historical developments in Confucianism, Daoism, Buddhism, and popular religion; their mutual interactions and influences as well as the relationship between the state and religion. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 404 JSIS A 405 Social Transformation of Modern East Asia (5) I&S Sorensen Comparative study of social change in China, Japan, Korea, and Vietnam since 1945. Concentration on small-scale social units in rural and urban areas under both communist and capitalist political systems. Offered: jointly with ANTH 449. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 405 JSIS A 406 China's Environment (5) I&S Analysis of contemporary environmental problems in China, including population, food, water supply, pollution, biodiversity, and environmental activism. Combines natural science and social science perspectives. Prerequisite: either ANTH 210, ENVIR 201, JSIS 200, JSIS 201, or JSIS 202. Offered: jointly with ANTH 406. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 406 JSIS A 407 Global Futures in East Asia (5) I&S Explores interlinked modernity projects in China, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan and how the education of youth figures in projects of national development and international economic competition. Offered: jointly with ANTH 407; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 407 JSIS A 408 Government and Politics of China (5) I&S S. WHITING Post-1949 government and politics, with emphasis on problems of political change in modern China. Offered: jointly with POL S 442. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 408 JSIS A 409 History of Twentieth-Century India (5) I&S A. Yang Analysis of the problems in the fields of social life, international and domestic politics, education, economics, and other areas that confront India today. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 404; A. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 409 JSIS A 412 South Asian Social Structure (5) I&S, DIV Examines caste, class, and community in modern India. Transitions from colonial typology to analysis of social change, diversity, stability, and caste hierarchy in rural society. Current debates on class and community in Indian society, rural and urban, explored through themes of identity, structure, and mobility. Prerequisite: one 200-level ANTH course. Offered: jointly with ANTH 412. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 412 JSIS A 413 African Studies Seminar (5, max. 15) I&S Interdisciplinary seminar focusing upon one particular aspect of the African continent. Emphasis may be humanistic, social scientific, or historical. African Studies faculty and visiting scholars lecture on areas of their own expertise. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 413 JSIS A 415 National Security of Japan (5) I&S Changing landscape of Japan's national security concerns: actors, institutions, and circumstances that have brought issues of defense and rivalry to the center stage of Japanese politics. Topics include nationalism, militarization, pacifism, United States-Japan security alliance, Sino-Japanese competition, constitutional revision, collective defense, and spy satellites. Offered: jointly with POL S 423. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 415 JSIS A 416 North Atlantic Treaty Organization (5) I&S Explores the history of NATO since 1949. Case studies include German unification; evolving security relationship between NATO, the USSR, and its successor states; process of NATO enlargement; emergence of human rights as a priority in NATO"s security interactions with non-member states; and NATO's role in ethno-nationalist-religious conflicts in the Balkans. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 416 JSIS A 417 Political Economy of India (5) I&S Analysis of relationships among processes of economic change, political institutions, and structures of political power in contemporary India. Includes contrasting approaches to Indian economic development, land reform, radical and agrarian political movements, and role of foreign aid. Offered: jointly with POL S 417. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 417 JSIS A 418 Eastern Europe: the Political Economy of the Region (5) I&S Poznanski Focus on the classical command-type economy and the most recent economic and political transition in Eastern Europe. Analysis of current institutional reform, privatization, and trade relations. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 418 JSIS A 419 Southeast Asian Knowledge and the Politics of Information (5) I&S Henchy Overview of information resources in and about Southeast Asia, including evaluation of those sources within various theoretical articulations (scholastic, cultural, and political). Pedagogical implications of the life cycle of information; critique of these implications from various theoretical and cultural viewpoints. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 419 JSIS A 420 Post-Soviet Security (5) I&S Radnitz Examines security issues in Eurasia, emphasizing human over international security. Focuses on problems stemming from the collapse of the Soviet Union, covering topics such as weak states, civil wars, nationalism, corruption, and authoritarianism. Includes Russia's relations with former Soviet republics and U.S.-Russian relations. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 420 JSIS A 422 First Nations Filmmaking in Canada (5) VLPA Cote Examines First Nations video production in Canada; how film is utilized as a medium for addressing issues significant to First Nations. First Nations filmmakers "decolonize" the screen by providing real and positive images of First Nations people that correspond to their cultural and social experiences. Offered: jointly with AIS 465. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 422 JSIS A 423 Origins of Modern Japan (5) I&S Mark Metzler Course surveys Japan's early modern age, from the end of the warring-states period in the late 1500s through the Meiji revolution and creation of a modern state in the late 1800s. Japan's history since the early 20th century is continued in a second class, JSIS A 424/HSTAS 424. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 423. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 423 JSIS A 424 Japan Since the Early 20th Century (5) I&S The making of modern Japan; World War II and surrender; American occupation; postoccupation rebuilding; emergence as an industrial power. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 424. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 424 JSIS A 426 First Nations Government and Politics in Canada (5) I&S, DIV Cote Focuses on First Nations government and politics in Canada. Examines development of First Nations political governing structures with an introduction to the values, perspectives, concepts, and principles in Native political cultures. Explores federal Indian policy in context of First Nations strategies to become self-governing. Offered: jointly with AIS 461. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 426 JSIS A 427 Anthropology of the Post-Soviet States (5) I&S L. BILANIUK Analysis of Soviet and post-Soviet culture and identity. Historical transformations in Soviet approaches to ethnicity and nationality; contemporary processes of nation building and interethnic conflict. Examination of culture through the intersection of social ritual, government policies, language, economic practices, and daily life. Regional focus varies. Offered: jointly with ANTH 425. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 427 JSIS A 429 Eco-Capitalism (5) I&S Ingebritsen Explores the idea of environmentalism and sustainability across societies. Compares and contrasts how prominent authors in the field assess the risks and opportunities of human effects on climate and ecology. Questions explored include: will ecological solutions be critical to the revival of the global economy? Why do place such as Europe adapt more readily to environmental challenges? Offered: jointly with SCAND 479. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 429 JSIS A 430 The Soviet Empire: Creation, Consolidation, and Collapse (5) I&S Jones Surveys history of Soviet military and Soviet empire from 1917 to 1985, breakup of the USSR during 1985 to 1991, and the emergence of new security issues among those Eurasian states that formally constituted the national components of the USSR and its communist military allies. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 430 JSIS A 431 Demographic Issues in Asia (3-5) I&S Hirschman, Lavely Contemporary Asian countries face a number of issues with demographic components, including environmental and resource issues, ethnic rivalries, international migration, and public health. Addresses a set of these issues by focusing on the demography of one or more countries in Asia. Offered: jointly with SOC 434. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 431 JSIS A 432 History of the Japanese Empire (5) I&S The age of "new imperialism" during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries as it profoundly shaped the historical trajectory of East Asia. Primary and secondary sources examine Japan's rise as one of the only non-Western empires in the modern era, and its enduring impact on the East Asian region. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 432. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 432 JSIS A 433 Paris: Architecture and Urbanism (3/5) VLPA/I&S Spans the architectural history of Paris, from its Gallic, pre-Roman origins in the second century BCE through the work of twenty-first century architects. Focuses on changing patterns of the physical fabric of the city and its buildings, as seen within the context of the broader political, social, economic, and cultural history. Offered: jointly with ARCH 458/ART H 494. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 433 JSIS A 434 International Relations of South Asia (5) I&S Interrelationships of domestic, interstate, and extraregional forces and their effects upon the resolution or expansion of interstate conflicts in South Asia. Offered: jointly with POL S 434. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 434 JSIS A 435 Japanese Government and Politics (5) I&S Government and politics of Japan with emphasis on the period since 1945. Offered: jointly with POL S 435. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 435 JSIS A 436 Political Parties in Japan and East Asia (5) I&S R. Pekkanen Focus on political parties in Japan. Combines theoretical readings on political parties with intensive study of Japanese political parties. Offered: jointly with POL S 429. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 436 JSIS A 437 International Relations of Japan (5) I&S S. Pekkanen Comprehensive examination of Japan's international relations. Covers issues such as trade, security, environment, aid, and human rights. Investigates Japan's participation in international organizations, including the UN, World Bank, IMF, and WTO. Examines Japan's relations with the United States, the European Union, Asia, Latin America, Africa, and other regions. Offered: jointly with POL S 424. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 437 JSIS A 438 Social and Political Geographies of South Asia (5) I&S Introduces the social and political geographies of South Asia through reference to agrarian change in India. Outlines key concepts related to the reproduction of inequality in the region, particularly theories of caste, class, gender, and religious communalism, and examines the mechanisms through which these inequalities are reproduced in South Asia. Offered: jointly with GEOG 436. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 438 JSIS A 439 Politics of Divided Korea (5) I&S Governments, politics, and economy of South and North Korea, the inter-Korea relations, and the two Koreas' relationship with the major powers - especially the United States - with emphasis on the post-cold war period. Offered: jointly with POL S 439. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 439 JSIS A 440 Japanese History in Ecological Perspective (5) I&S M. Metzler Survey of Japanese history in ecological perspective, from early times to the present. Topics include ancient Japanese lifeways; climate and history; agriculture, population, and resources; Buddhist and animist views of outer and inner nature; urbanization from ancient capitals to megacity Tokyo; industrialization and energy; and future visions. Readings include influential scholarly works and Japanese sources in English translation. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 440; W. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 440 JSIS A 441 Quebecois Literature (5) VLPA Readings of novels, plays, and occasionally, poetry. Special attention paid to how Quebecois authors represent in their works the complex socio-political reality of their culture. Conducted in French. French majors required to read and write in French; all others may read and write in English. Prerequisite: either FRENCH 304, FRENCH 305, or FRENCH 306. Offered: jointly with FRENCH 441. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 441 JSIS A 442 War and Occupation in Northern Europe: History, Fiction, and Memoir (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV The study of literary representations (fiction, memoirs, and personal narratives) dealing with World War II and the occupation of the Nordic and Baltic countries. Offered: jointly with SCAND 445. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 442 JSIS A 443 Medieval Russia: 850-1700 (5) I&S Development of Russia from earliest times to the reign of Peter the Great. Offered: jointly with HSTAM 443. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 443 JSIS A 444 Imperial Russia: 1700-1900 (5) I&S Development of Russia from Peter the Great to Nicholas II. Offered: jointly with HSTEU 444. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 444 JSIS A 445 The Rise and Fall of the Soviet Union (5) I&S Russia and the USSR from Nicholas II to the present. Offered: jointly with HSTEU 445. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 445 JSIS A 446 Modern Korean History (5) I&S Hajin Jun Traces complex social, cultural, and political developments that transformed Korea during the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Topics include late Choson reforms, changing gender norms, national identity, colonial state and society, territorial division, and democratization. Attention to diversity of Korean experiences, as well as the interplay of local dynamics and global forces in the peninsula. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 482. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 446 JSIS A 447 Literature and Society in Southeast Asia (5, max. 10) VLPA/I&S Focus on either Vietnam or Thailand. Provides students with opportunity to explore how those living in Southeast Asia have reflected on the radical social changes their societies have undergone through novels, short stories, and poetry. Prerequisite: either one 200-level ANTH course or LING 203. Offered: jointly with ANTH 445. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 447 JSIS A 448 Modern Korean Society (5) I&S Sorensen Social organization and values of twentieth-century Korea. Changes in family and kinship, gender relations, rural society, urban life, education, and industrial organization since 1900. Differences between North and South Korea since 1945. Offered: jointly with ANTH 448. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 448 JSIS A 449 Anthropology of Modern Japan (5) I&S Examines the problem of modernity in Japan since the late nineteenth century, with emphasis on contemporary Japan. Critically addresses previous anthropological work concerning patterns of Japanese "culture." Particular focus on the influence of modern forms of power, media, and exchange in the construction of present-day Japan. Offered: jointly with ANTH 443. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 449 JSIS A 451 Youth in Modern China (5) I&S Madeleine Y. Dong Emergence of youth in Modern China as a social category; a distinctive stage of life; from most dominated group in society to driving force of history. Explores how young people experienced history of modern China as individuals, members of family, and society. Youth as shaped in post-socialist consumer culture, new nationalism, cosmopolitanism. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 458. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 451 JSIS A 452 Global Asia (5) I&S, DIV Explores how Asia has been constructed through transnational interactions such as imperialism, anti-colonialism, tourism, diaspora, and global capitalism. Topics include the cultural construction of similarity and difference, politics of representation, and political economy of global circulations of people and things. Prerequisite: one 200-level ANTH course. Offered: jointly with ANTH 442/GWSS 446; W. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 452 JSIS A 454 History of Modern China (5) I&S Offered: jointly with HSTAS 454. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 454 JSIS A 455 Baltic Politics and Society Today (5) I&S G. Smidchens Intensive interdisciplinary survey of current social, political, and economic developments in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Offered: jointly with SCAND 455; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 455 JSIS A 456 Topics in Chinese Social History (5) I&S Surveys major issues and approaches to the study of the role of the Chinese people in China's historical development. Historical focus of course varies with instructor. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 456. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 456 JSIS A 457 Current Issues in the Arab Media (5, max. 15) VLPA/I&S Hamd Critical discussions on the dominant issues confronting the Arab world today. Examines Arab societies as they face the challenges of contemporary globalism. Emphasizes language proficiency and cultural competence. Taught in Arabic. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 457 JSIS A 458 Israel: Politics and Society (5) I&S, DIV Examines how parts of the mosaic of Israel's ethnic groups and religions have interacted over time to create today's society. Focus on politics, especially interaction of the state with the mosaic society. The religious divide; the Jewish ethnic divide; Palestinians in Israel; war and its effect on Israel; the long road to peace. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 458 JSIS A 459 United States-China Relations (5) I&S Bachman Surveys the history of United States-China relations and examines the evolution of bilateral relations, particularly since 1949. Focus on the period since 1972 and the major issues as they have evolved since that time, including trade, human rights, security, and Taiwan. Offered: jointly with POL S 419. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 459 JSIS A 460 Cities in China: Past and Present (5) I&S Dong Economic, political, social, and cultural functions of the city in modern Chinese history. Changes in China's urban system. The city as cultural center and focus of literary and cinematic representation. Attention to architecture, commerce, urbanization, the role of capital cities in the power of the state. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 460. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 460 JSIS A 461 Ramayana in Comparative Perspective (5) VLPA, DIV Pauwels Examines and compares different versions (mainly South Asian) of the Ramayana, including the widely popular television version. Focuses on some famous and controversial passages, with special attention to gender issues. Incorporates background readings from the most recent research. Offered: jointly with ASIAN 494. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 461 JSIS A 462 Islam, Mysticism, Politics and Performance in Indonesian Culture (5) VLPA/I&S Examines how Indonesia, the world's fourth most-populous country, with the largest Islamic population, weaves together local practices and influences from India and Persia. Offers ways of understanding modern Indonesian performing arts, religion, and polities. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 466. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 462 JSIS A 463 Topics in Southeast Asian History and Society (5) I&S Introduces major issues within the history and culture of one country of Southeast Asia. Content varies. Topics may include religion, economics, colonialism, perspectives on gender, labor history, literatures, popular culture, and performing arts. Focuses on a different Southeast Asian country each time offered. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 463 JSIS A 464 Contemporary Society in the People's Republic of China (5) I&S Lavely Separate development of rural and urban social institutions in the People's Republic of China since 1949 from a sociological perspective. Family and marriage, social control, educational institutions. Dilemmas of contemporary China and reasons for institutional change. Offered: jointly with SOC 464. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 464 JSIS A 465 International Humanitarian Law (5) I&S Lorenz Investigates International Humanitarian Law (sometimes called the Law of Armed Conflict), the field concerned with rules developed by civilized nations to protect the victims of armed conflict, including the Geneva Conventions. Case studies include the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians, as well as developments in Afghanistan and Iraq. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 465 JSIS A 466 Comparative Politics and Korea Studies (5) I&S Ha Approaches Korean politics, political economy, and society from a comparative perspective. Examples of major comparative questions based on Korean case include democratization, strong state dynamics, civil society, and impact of globalization. Offered: jointly with POL S 480. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 466 JSIS A 467 China's Rise and Its Global Implications (5) I&S Examines the consequences of China's dramatic rise - three decades of very high rates of economic growth - on China and on the World. Fundamental concerns are how China's rise is changing the institutions and practices of the world order, and whether China is increasingly socialized into global norms. Prerequisite: JSIS 202. Instructors: Bachman View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 467 JSIS A 468 Russia in the International Security System (5) I&S Christopher D Jones Introduces the history of the Russian Federation's policy toward Europe, East Asia, South Asia, the Middle East, and the United States. Covers nuclear weapons, energy issues, and regional integration. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 468 JSIS A 469 North Korean Society (5) I&S C. SORENSEN Description of the institutions and culture of North Korea with attention to the daily life of ordinary people. Uses North Korean media materials in addition to primary and secondary sources. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 469 JSIS A 470 Minority Peoples of China (5) I&S Interaction between China and the peoples of its periphery, including inner Asia, Tibet, northern mainland Southeast Asia, and aboriginal peoples of Taiwan. Emphasis on ethnicity, ethnic group consciousness, and role of the Chinese state. Prerequisite: one 200-level ANTH course; LING 203; either ANTH 370/JSIS A 370 or HSTAS 454. Offered: jointly with ANTH 470. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 470 JSIS A 471 New Orders in East Asia (5) I&S Pyle Rise and fall of successive international systems in East Asia over the past 150 years: Sino-centric, imperialist, Washington Treaty system, Japan's East Asian order, Yalta system, cold-war system. Post-cold-war search for a new order. Special attention to triangular relations among the United States, China, and Japan. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 471 JSIS A 472 Science, Technology, and Innovation in East Asia: Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and China (5) I&S Marie C Anchordoguy Role of state and technological change in economic development. Analyzes state and corporate policies historically. Technology concepts, institutions, and policies in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and China. Examines sources of Asia's rise in world of technology and explores conditions for its successful continuation. Offered: jointly with I BUS 461. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 472 JSIS A 473 Political Economy of Postwar Japan (5) I&S Anchordoguy Political and economic problems of Japan since 1945. Utility of competing theoretical approaches to analysis of government and economy of Japan. Policy-making processes and effects of policies adopted. Some knowledge of postwar Japan desirable. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 473 JSIS A 474 Civil Society in Japan and East Asia (5) I&S R. Pekkanen Examines a wide range of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) nonprofits, and voluntary groups under the unifying rubric of civil society. Theoretical introduction to civil society and ideas of social capital. Investigates general aspects of civil society, focusing on its specific characteristics in Japan and other parts of Asia. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 474 JSIS A 475 Japanese Society (5) I&S Discusses rapidly changing Japanese society and history of its unique aspects. Readings and lectures in sociology, anthropology, economics, and politics; emphasis on Japanese search for cultural identity and prevalent interpretations of Japanese society and behavior. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 475 JSIS A 476 Energy Security in East Asia (5) Explores the current state of energy security in East Asia, defined in terms of demand, suppy, resources, and geopolitics, and how it impacts global energy-related issues, including climate change. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 476 JSIS A 477 Readings on Political Economy of Japan and Northeast Asia (5) Anchordoguy Analyzes major Political Economy issues in Japan, Korea, and China, such as the state's role in industrial development, trade and investment in Asia, trade and security relations with the United States, and Asian models of capitalism. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 477 JSIS A 478 Japanese Business and Technology (5) I&S Anchordoguy Examination of Japan's postwar enterprise system in its historical context. Topics include corporate and financial structure, production and distribution, trade and investment policies, government-business relations, system of innovation, technological developments, prospects for the future. Offered: jointly with I BUS 462. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 478 JSIS A 479 Contemporary Central Asian Politics (5) I&S Radnitz Examines the politics of contemporary post-Soviet Central Asia. Analyzes issues relevant to the region in comparative perspective, including democratization, religion, terrorism, civil society, economic reform, ethnic identity, and international influences. Uses theory to shed light on current policy debates. Offered: jointly with POL S 479. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 479 JSIS A 480 Kierkegaard and Decadence in European Literature (5) VLPA Reading and discussion of core texts by Soren Kierkegaard, as well as a consideration of the relationship between Kierkegaardian thought and the literary practice of various writers of Scandinavian and European decadence. Offered: jointly with SCAND 480. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 480 JSIS A 481 August Strindberg and European Cultural History (5) VLPA/I&S Examines the work of Swedish dramatist, novelist, and painter August Strindberg, in the context of European literary movements and history of ideas from 1880 to 1912, and Strindberg's influence on twentieth-century drama and film. Offered: jointly with SCAND 481. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 481 JSIS A 482 Knut Hamsun and Early European Modernism (5) VLPA Reading and discussion of significant novels by Knut Hamsun, whose oeuvre is considered in the context of works by other European modernist writers. Offered: jointly with SCAND 482. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 482 JSIS A 483 Technology and Culture in the Making of Contemporary Empires (5) I&S Benitez, Rodriguez-Sliva Explores struggles shaping organization of US empire in the early twentieth century, focusing on sites where empire's material, cultural, and ideological boundaries were drawn and contested. Includes race, gender and class as colonial formation; technologies of imperial governance such as public health, citizenship, and territory. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 483. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 483 JSIS A 484 Korea in the Japanese Empire (5) I&S, DIV Korean colonial history in the context of Japanese imperial expansion from the 1870s to 1945. Analyzes the Korean quest for modernization and nation-building, colonial industrialization and colonial modernity, assimilation and resistance, wartime mobilization and collaboration, Manchurian experiences, social movements, and cultural developments. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 484. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 484 JSIS A 485 Culture, Politics, and Violence in Latin America (5) I&S, DIV Garcia Examines notions of "otherness" and the power to label as central to understanding inequality, human rights, and social struggle. Uses academic texts, films, documentaries, historical fiction, plays, and testimonials to interrogate the complexities of violence and social justice in Latin America, one of the most unequal regions in the world. Offered: jointly with CHID 487. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 485 JSIS A 486 Photography and Cultural Studies in Latin America (5) VLPA/I&S Interdisciplinary exploration of the connections between visual anthropology (ethnography through photography and film), documentary and art photography, and colonial and post-colonial discourse in Latin America during the twentieth century. Prerequisite: either SPAN 303 or SPAN 316; SPAN 322. Instructors: Steele Offered: jointly with SPAN 486. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 486 JSIS A 487 Japanese Trade Politics (5) I&S R. Pekkanen Survey of Japan's foreign trade diplomacy. Examines evolution of Japan's trade patterns in exports and foreign direct investment with key partners. Covers institutional and legal frameworks of Japan's trade relations, such as bilateral fora, regional options including free trade agreements, and multilateral venues such as the WTO. Offered: jointly with POL S 418. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 487 JSIS A 489 The Mexico-U.S. Border in Literature and Film (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Analysis of the Mexico-U.S. Border region in literature and film of the 1990s and early 2000s. Includes migration, tourism, NGOs, globalization, transnational commerce, multiculturalism, and politics of gender, sexuality, and race. Prerequisite: either SPAN 303 or SPAN 316; SPAN 321. Instructors: Steele Offered: jointly with SPAN 489. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 489 JSIS A 490 Politics and Society in Eastern Europe (5) I&S Political and social issues in lands east of the Elbe, treating some historical problems but focusing particularly on developments since 1945. Includes all communist states of Eastern Europe and their successors. Offered: jointly with POL S 445. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 490 JSIS A 491 Methodologies in Near Eastern Studies (5) Investigates prevalent approaches through a survey of scholarship on Near and Middle Eastern civilizations across time periods, cultures, and communities. Examines discourses developed on polytheistic and monotheistic religions, imperial and nationalist social systems, and ideological frameworks, such as Orientalism. Offered: jointly with NEAR E 486. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 491 JSIS A 492 Latin American Studies Seminar (5, max. 15) I&S View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 492 JSIS A 493 Water and Security in the Middle East (5) I&S As the available fresh water in the world decreases in quality and quantity, protection of this critical resource becomes a matter of international security. By studying three major river basins in the Middle East, students explore the historic, geographic, political, environmental and legal factors that lead to conflict or cooperation in the region. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 493 JSIS A 494 Senior Seminar (5) I&S Introduction to research into European topics and to the analysis of problems. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 494 JSIS A 495 European Studies Senior Thesis (5) I&S Independent study under faculty supervision to complete senior Thesis in the European Studies major View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 495 JSIS A 496 Development and Democracy in South Korea (5) I&S H. NAM Examines the nation-building history of South Korea in the larger geopolitical context of the era, focusing in particular on the period under Park Chung Hee's rule (1961-1979) and the relationship between development and democracy. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 496 JSIS A 498 Seminar: Canadian Topics (5) I&S Major issues pertaining to Canadian society, government, and economic development. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 498 JSIS A 504 Survey of Eurasia (5) Provides a basic intellectual foundation for interdisciplinary graduate-level study of Russia, East Europe, and Central Asia, taught by rotating faculty from the major scholarly disciplines. Students read important texts and are introduced to major debates on the history, politics, and culture of the region. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 504 JSIS A 506 Study of Southeast Asia (5) Lowe Focuses on questioning what it means to create knowledge about the region. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 506 JSIS A 508 Interdisciplinary Study of South Asia I (5) Examines key themes and debates about the development of South Asian cultural and political formations. Examines how different scholarly disciplines, particularly those in the humanities, have approved and analyzed the past in South Asia. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 508 JSIS A 509 Interdisciplinary Study of South Asia II (5) Kale Examination of key themes and debates about the development of South Asian cultural and political formations. Examines how different scholarly disciplines, particularly those in the social sciences, analyze political transitions, social change, and cultural transformations in South Asia through the twentieth century. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 509 JSIS A 510 South Asian Studies Research Design Seminar (5) Interdisciplinary seminar for graduate students in which research and writing on individual research topics are critically developed. Designed to provide each student with an opportunity to synthesize his or her studies on South Asia. Prerequisite: JSIS A 508; JSIS A 509 or permission of graduate program coordinator. Instructors: Robinson View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 510 JSIS A 512 Russian, East European and Central Asian Studies Certificate Capstone (1) Includes the preparation and presentation of the student portfolio required for the Russian, Eastern European, and Central Asian Studies certificate. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 512 JSIS A 513 Capstone Portfolio (1) Includes the preparation and presentation of the student portfolio required for the South Asia Certificate. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 513 JSIS A 514 Thesis Seminar I (2) Mikkelsen Review of research techniques: preparation for drafting master's thesis. Required of all first-year MAIS students. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 514 JSIS A 515 Thesis Seminar II (2) Mikkelsen Seminar to complete draft of master's thesis. Some use of relevant language required. Required of all second-year MAIS students. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 515 JSIS A 516 North Atlantic Treaty Organization (5) Explores the history of NATO since 1949. Case studies include German unification; evolving security relationship between NATO, the USSR, and its successor states; process of NATO enlargement; emergence of human rights as a priority in NATO's security interactions with non-member states; and NATO's role in ethno-nationalist-religious conflicts in the Balkans. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 516 JSIS A 519 Southeast Asian Knowledge and the Politics of Information (5) VLPA/I&S Henchy Reviews information resources in and about Southeast Asia, including evaluating those sources within various theoretical articulations (scholastic, cultural, and political). Covers the pedagogical implications of the life cycle of information; and critique of these implications from various theoretical and cultural viewpoints. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 519 JSIS A 520 Post-Soviet Security (5) Radnitz Examines security issues in Eurasia, emphasizing human over international security. Focuses on problems stemming from the collapse of the Soviet Union, covering topics such as weak states, civil wars, nationalism, corruption, and authoritarianism. Includes Russia's relations with former Soviet republics and U.S.-Russian relations. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 520 JSIS A 521 Seminar: Introduction to the Interdisciplinary Study of China (5-) Bachman, Dong, Guy View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 521 JSIS A 522 Seminar: Introduction to the Interdisciplinary Study of China (-5) Bachman, Dong, Guy View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 522 JSIS A 525 Japanese Government and Politics (5) Government and politics of Japan with emphasis on the period since 1945. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 525 JSIS A 526 The Security of China (5) Bachman Examines how the Chinese state conceptualizes its national security interests and how it pursues strategies designed to achieve those interests. Topics include use of force, military modernization, civil-military relations, and defense industrialization. Offered: jointly with POL S 526. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 526 JSIS A 528 Gender and Sexuality in China (5) Explores gender and sexuality in China's process of modernization, form the late Qing dynasty through the building of the Republic, Communist revolution, and post-Mao economic reform. Examines, through historical, anthropological, and cultural studies scholarship, the centrality of these social constructs I terms of family, sate, labor, body, and ethnicity. Offered: jointly with ANTH 528/GWSS 528. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 528 JSIS A 529 Eco-Capitalism (5) Ingebritsen Explores the idea of environmentalism and sustainability across societies. Compares and contrasts how prominent authors in the field assess the risks and opportunities of human effects on climate and ecology. Questions explored include: will ecological solutions be critical to the revival of the global economy? Why do place such as Europe adapt more readily to environmental challenges? Offered: jointly with SCAND 579. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 529 JSIS A 531 Social Movements in Contemporary India (5) P. RAMAMURTHY Covers issues of social change, economic development, and identity politics in contemporary India studied through environmental and women's movements. Includes critiques of development and conflicts over forests, dams, women's rights, religious community, ethnicity, and citizenship. Offered: jointly with ANTH 539/GWSS 539. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 531 JSIS A 532 The Chinese Political System (5) S. WHITING Examination of key approaches, interpretations, and secondary literature in the study of contemporary Chinese politics. Offered: jointly with POL S 532. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 532 JSIS A 534 Indonesian Histories, Oral Traditions, and Archives (5) Explores the inscription of Indonesian histories and stories. Focuses on oral traditions, oral testimonies, and archives. Investigates how oral and written testimonies enter historical archives. Explores theoretical work on literary and performance traditions as they relate to nationalism and Islam in Indonesia. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 534. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 534 JSIS A 535 International Relations of Modern China (5) Foreign policy of the People's Republic of China: historical antecedents; domestic and international systemic determinants; and Chinese policies toward major states, regions, and issues. Prerequisite: a course on contemporary Chinese politics or history, or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with POL S 535. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 535 JSIS A 536 Political Parties in Japan and East Asia (5) R. Pekkanen Focus on political parties in Japan. Combines theoretical readings on political parties with intensive study of Japanese political parties. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 536 JSIS A 537 International Relations in Japan (5) S. Pekkanen Comprehensive examination of Japan's international relations. Covers issues such as trade, security, environment, aid, and human rights. Investigates Japan's participation in international organizations, including the UN, World Bank, IMF, and WTO. Examines Japan's relations with the United States, the European Union, Asia, Latin America, Africa, and other regions. Not open to students who have taken JSIS A 437. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 537 JSIS A 539 Japanese History in Ecological Perspective (5) M. Metzler Survey of Japanese history in ecological perspective, from early times to the present. Topics include ancient Japanese lifeways; climate and history; agriculture, population, and resources; Buddhist and animist views of outer and inner nature; urbanization from ancient capitals to megacity Tokyo; industrialization and energy; and future visions. Readings include influential scholarly works and Japanese sources in English translation. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 540; W. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 539 JSIS A 540 Japanese Law (3-4) Basic institutions and processes of the Japanese legal system. Historical development and traditional role of law, reception of Western law, and cultural and structural factors that influence the function of law and legal institutions. Offered: jointly with LAW B 540. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 540 JSIS A 541 Chinese Law (4) Introduction to the institutions and processes of the Chinese legal system. Focuses on the contemporary system and its role in relation to political, economic, and social developments. Examines legal aspects governing foreign trade and investment in China. Offered: jointly with LAW B 541. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 541 JSIS A 543 Japan, the United States, and New Orders in Asia (5) Seeks historical understanding of establishment of new order in contemporary East Asia. Analyzes the imperialist, Washington conference, and cold war systems and explores the present post-cold war search for a new order. Prerequisite: one course in modern Japanese history, political economy, or political science. Instructors: Pyle View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 543 JSIS A 544 Reading Seminar on Middle East Studies (2) Middle Eastern historiography, Islamic law, Islamic theology, relations between the Middle East and the world economy, political structures, social movements in the Middle East. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 544 JSIS A 545 Reading Seminar on Middle East Studies (2) Middle Eastern historiography, Islamic law, Islamic theology, relations between the Middle East and the world economy, political structures, social movements in the Middle East. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 545 JSIS A 546 Reading Seminar on Middle East Studies (2) Middle Eastern historiography, Islamic law, Islamic theology, relations between the Middle East and the world economy, political structures, social movements in the Middle East. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 546 JSIS A 548 National Security of Japan (5) S. Pekkanen Focuses on the changing landscape of Japan's national security concerns-the actors, institutions, and circumstances that have brought issues of defense and rivalry to the center stage of Japanese politics. Topics include nationalism, militarization, pacifism, United States-Japan security alliance, Sino-Japanese competition, constitutional revision, collective defense, and spy satellites. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 548 JSIS A 551 International Relations of Northeast Asia (5) Comprehensive survey of contemporary international relations of Northeast Asia with emphasis on Russia, Japan, China, and the United States. Multidisciplinary approach placing contemporary problems in historical context, drawing on modern social science theories. Connections between defense and economics are examined. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Hellmann Offered: jointly with POL S 539. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 551 JSIS A 552 Industrialization and International Relations (5) Ha Examines internal-external linkage with a focus on industrialization and international relations. Comparative perspective on the question of how industrialization shapes distinctive international perspectives in terms of perception, strategies, and foreign policy behaviors. Countries covered: South Korea, Japan, Prussia, the Soviet Union, and China. Offered: jointly with POL S 560. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 552 JSIS A 553 Asian Financial Systems (5) Hamilton Examines the transformation of Asian economies that has occurred in the past half century, with particular emphasis on the three-way relationship between key business groups, banks, and financial markets. Emphasizes differences as well as similarities among a group of Asian economies, including China, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 553 JSIS A 555 Introduction to Japanese Studies (3-6, max. 6) Anchordoguy Interdisciplinary introduction to the study of Japan, with emphasis on historical development. Required seminar for first-year graduate students. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 555 JSIS A 560 Seminar in Turkish Studies (2, max. 12) Recent research and writings focused on the Ottoman Empire and modern Turkey. Credit /no credit only. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 560 JSIS A 563 Approaches to East European Politics (3-5) Selected concepts and methodologies useful for the analysis of politics and social structure in the socialist countries of east-central and southeastern Europe. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with POL S 537. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 563 JSIS A 566 Comparative Politics and Korea Studies (5) Ha Approaches Korean politics, political economy, and society from a comparative perspective. Examples of major comparative questions based on Korean case include democratization, strong state dynamics, civil society, and impact of globalization. Offered: jointly with POL S 580. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 566 JSIS A 568 Russia in the International Security System (5) Christopher D Jones Introduces the history of the Russian Federation's policy toward Europe, East Asia, South Asia, the Middle East, and the United States. Covers nuclear weapons, energy issues, and regional integration. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 568 JSIS A 569 North Korean Society (5) C. SORENSEN Description of the institutions and culture of North Korea with attention to the daily life of ordinary people. Uses North Korean media materials in addition to primary and secondary sources. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 569 JSIS A 570 Readings in Israel/Palestine Studies (5) Survey of significant scholarly texts on Israel and Palestine during the 19th-21st centuries. Topics may include: Jewish and Middle East context; medical and environmental history; economic history; intellectual history of Zionism and Palestinian nationalism; cultural history. Offered: jointly with HSTAFM 570. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 570 JSIS A 573 Political Economy of Post War Japan (5) Anchordoguy Political and economic problems of Japan since 1945. Utility of competing theoretical approaches to analysis of government and economy of Japan. Policy-making processes and effects of policies adopted. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 573 JSIS A 574 Civil Society in Japan and East Asia (5) R. Pekkanen Examines a wide range of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), nonprofits, and voluntary groups under the unifying rubric of civil society. Theoretical introduction to civil society and ideas of social capital. Investigates general aspects of civil society, focusing on its specific characteristics in Japan and other parts of Asia. Not open to students who have taken JSIS A 474. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 574 JSIS A 575 Seminar on Japanese Society (5) Interdisciplinary seminar with class-led discussions on readings from anthropology, history, sociology, and nondiscipline-specific articles on Japanese society. Prerequisite: background on Japan. Not open to students who have taken JSIS A 475. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 575 JSIS A 576 Modern Chinese History (5) Introduction to the major English-language literature on modern Chinese history and to the major historiographical issues of the period. Prerequisite: HSTAS 454 or equivalent, and permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 579. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 576 JSIS A 577 Readings on Political Economy of Japan and Northeast Asia (5) Anchordoguy Analysis of major issues in Japan and also in Korea and China, such as the state's role in industrial development, trade and investment in Asia, trade and security relations with the U.S., and Asian models of capitalism. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 577 JSIS A 578 Japanese Business and Technology (5) Anchordoguy Examination of Japan's postwar enterprise system in its historical context. Topics include corporate and financial structure, production and distribution, trade and investment policies, government-business relations, system of innovation, technological developments, prospects for the future. Offered: jointly with I BUS 562. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 578 JSIS A 579 Contemporary Central Asian Politics (5) Radnitz Examines the politics of contemporary post-Soviet Central Asia. Analyzes issues relevant to the region in comparative perspective, including democratization, religion, terrorism, civil society, economic reform, ethnic identity, and international influences. Uses theory to shed light on current policy debates. Offered: jointly with POL S 579. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 579 JSIS A 580 Field Course in Southeast Asian History (5) Introduces major English-language works on Southeast Asian history and to the major historiographical issues of the era. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 530. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 580 JSIS A 581 Science, Technology, and Innovation in East Asia: Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and China (5) Role of state and technological change in economic development. Analyzes state and corporate policies historically. Technology concepts, institutions, and policies in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and China. Examines sources of Asia's rise in world of technology and explores conditions for its successful continuation. Offered: jointly with I BUS 561. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 581 JSIS A 582 Seminar in Southeast Asian History (5) Selected topics in Southeast Asian history and historiography. Includes preparation for theses and doctoral dissertations on Southeast Asian History. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 532. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 582 JSIS A 583 Modern Korean History (5) Hajin Jun Traces complex social, cultural, and political developments that transformed Korea during the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Topics include late Choson reforms, changing gender norms, national identity, colonial state and society, territorial division, and democratization. Attention to diversity of Korean experiences, as well as the interplay of local dynamics and global forces in the peninsula. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 581. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 583 JSIS A 584 Survey of Korean Society (5) Sorensen Introduction to the social and political institutions of North and South Korea with an opportunity to master the most important literature on modern Korea. Focuses on the twentieth century with the major emphasis on the post-1945 period. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 584 JSIS A 585 Research Seminar: Modern Korea (6) Advanced instruction in problems and methods of research in Korean history. Foreign language not required. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Ha View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 585 JSIS A 586 Islam, Mysticism, Politics, and Performance in Indonesia (5) Examines how Indonesia, the world's fourth most-populous country, with the largest Islamic population, weaves together local practices and influence from India and Persia. Offers ways of understanding modern Indonesian performing arts, religion, and politics. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 566. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 586 JSIS A 587 Japanese Trade Politics (5) S. Pekkanen Survey of Japan's foreign trade diplomacy. Examines evolution of Japan's trade patterns in exports and foreign direct investment with key partners. Covers institutional and legal frameworks of Japan's trade relations, such as bilateral fora, regional options including free trade agreements, and multilateral venues such as the WTO. Not open to students who have taken JSIS A 487. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 587 JSIS A 588 Making Modern Taiwan (5) J. Lin Explores modern Taiwanese history and contemporary Taiwanese society. Contextualizes Taiwan within larger historical trends and covers key issues of politics, society, and culture, identity, democracy, Taiwan's colonial legacy, geography, and cross-Strait relations with the People's Republic of China. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 588 JSIS A 590 Politics and Society in Eastern Europe (5) Political and social issues in lands east of the Elbe, treating some historical problems but focusing particularly on developments since 1945. includes all communist states of Eastern Europe and their successors. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 590 JSIS A 593 Water and Security in the Middle East (5) As the available fresh water in the world decreases in quality and quantity, protection of this critical resource becomes a matter of international security. By studying three major river basins in the Middle East, students explore the historic, geographic, political, environmental and legal factors that lead to conflict or cooperation in the region. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 593 JSIS A 596 Development and Democracy in South Korea (5) H. NAM Examines the nation-building history of South Korea in the larger geopolitical context of the era, focusing in particular on the period under Park Chung Hee's rule (1961-1979) and the relationship between development and democracy. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS A 596 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022