Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News > Featured News Stories > 2022 > Need help managing diabetes? These students made an app for that News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift Need help managing diabetes? These students made an app for that Jie Sun (left) and Amber Nigam May 13, 2022 – Amber Nigam, SM ’23 and Jie Sun, SM ’22, would like to help people living with diabetes feel like they’re living without it. The two Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health students—both pursuing a master of science in health data science—co-founded a tech startup called basys.ai in order to create an easy-to-use app that diabetes patients can use to keep track of their blood glucose level, activities, diet, and other factors. The app uses a digital avatar to nudge people to adopt healthy habits to manage the disease. “Instead of seeing boring lines and charts, the avatar is a human-like figure that keeps you motivated and engaged in your journey,” said Nigam. “You receive behavioral nudges from the avatar, such as ‘I notice this thing you’re eating is causing a spike in your blood sugar. Consider avoiding it or taking a smaller piece, or maybe get some exercise.’ If your objective is, for instance, not to take diabetes drugs any more, the avatar will tell you how far away you are from your goal.” The basys.ai app provides personalized recommendations for diabetes patients. Using basys.ai’s patented artificial intelligence technology, the app provides precise and personalized recommendations. It translates clinical outcomes—like reducing the amount of blood sugar attached to hemoglobin—to more meaningful and relatable goals, like reducing medication or body fat. Patients can record most of their food and exercise data with the click of a button (or sync the information via a device such as a smartwatch), and can key in data from their glucose monitors. They can also connect with health coaches if the digital avatar can’t answer a particular query. Nigam and Sun won a Spark grant from the Harvard Innovation Labs last November, an MIT Sandbox grant in February, and they were both in the winning team in the MIT $100K Entrepreneurship Competition’s Accelerate contest in March. Nigam became interested in providing an easier way to manage diabetes after seeing his father, who died from COVID in 2020, struggle with the disease. “My dad had unmanaged diabetes for 25 years,” he said. “He wanted to have sweets but knew he couldn’t have them in front of me, so he would hide them. My mother and I would ask if he was checking his glucose, or we’d urge him to go for morning walks or do yoga or be active in some other way, but he didn’t listen much. We used to ask him to visit doctors but he had owned a pharmaceutical company in India and had spoken to doctors so much that he wasn’t interested. It was a very difficult situation.” Through basys.ai, Nigam and Sun hope to help diabetic patients like Nigam’s father have more autonomy in managing their disease. “Instead of being told by other people that you should eat this or not eat that, by using our app people can make small adjustments, step by step, and feel that they are the ones in control,” said Sun. She added that the app can help reduce global inequities by helping people with minimal access to health care achieve a healthier lifestyle. Sun, originally from Singapore and China, and Nigam, originally from India, brought a combined 17 years of experience in tech entrepreneurship and health care to their startup. The two connected in April 2020 via a Slack group for students in Harvard Chan School’s health data science program. Nigam asked his classmates if anyone was interested in starting a venture together—and Sun said yes. The two have since put in long hours on their startup, often working in common spaces like Peet’s Coffee in Harvard Square (“we’ve been [there] so often that each staff there remembered our orders and names,” Sun blogged on March 17), and a lounge on the third floor of Child Hall, a Harvard dorm. Members of the Harvard community have been extremely supportive; team members now include fellow students from Harvard Chan School and the Graduate School of Design. In a March 31 blog, Sun noted, “Everyone in the dorm has been so welcoming to us from offering us … hot meals, brainstorming on our patent application, or just casually chatting with us.” Sun and Nigam also credit support from Heather Mattie, co-director of Harvard Chan’s master’s program in health data science. Mattie is one of the people serving on basys.ai’s advisory board. “It’s been an absolute pleasure working with Amber and Jie,” Mattie said. “They are two of the most driven students who embody the collaborative spirit of our community and our commitment to making health care more accessible to all. They are leveraging the power of data, data science, and a diverse set of expertise to improve the chronic disease management journey for patients and their support systems.” Nigam and Sun are partnering with hospitals and pharmaceutical companies to refine their offering, and they’re working to generate interest in basys.ai among large employers who may want to use the app to improve the health of their employees. Eventually, the plan is to make the app available to the general public, and to expand it to address not just diabetes but other chronic conditions. “Working on our venture had such a strong influence on our lives,” Sun wrote in the March 31 blog. “We would urge every student to consider taking the plunge.” – Karen Feldscher photos: Kent Dayton Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Subscribe The COVID-19 Update Our researchers are on the front lines of the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sign up here to receive our weekly newsletter highlighting their efforts. Join mailing list Additional newsletters and mailing lists Related Articles chronic disease diabetes healthy diet healthy lifestyles Heart-healthy diets may also be brain boosting For longevity, aim for 150 minutes of weekly exercise Opinion: FDA should boost food industry regulation More on this topic Evidence mounts on the benefits of strength training Obesity alters molecular architecture of liver cells; repairing structure reverses metabolic disease Ukraine’s humanitarian crisis More on this topic The complicated work of pinpointing the causes of disease Heart-healthy diets may also be brain boosting Weekly avocado consumption may lower heart disease risk More on this topic “Work Design for Health” framework and toolkit developed by researchers at Harvard Chan School and MIT Sloan School of Management offers employers effective alternative to employee wellness programs High sugar intake in adolescence may increase colorectal adenoma risk Better Off: A new podcast from Harvard Chan School More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website