Skip to main navigation Skip to main content apply visit give Information for: Current Students Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean’s Message Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Keys to Inclusive Leadership in Nursing Diversity Advisory Board Facts & Figures History & Traditions Dean Rita P. Kelleher Award Grand Rounds Pinnacle Lecture Series Tenure Talks Our Spaces News & Events Contact Us Admission & Aid Overview Why BC Nursing? Tuition & Aid Tours & Info Sessions Related Links Find Your Path Facts & Figures Living in Boston Academics Overview Find Your Path Bachelor’s Program Master’s Program Doctor of Nursing Practice Program (D.N.P.) D.N.P. in Nurse Anesthesia Ph.D. Program Continuing Education Related Links Admission & Aid Faculty Directory Clinical Experience Research Continuous Program Improvement Plan Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Nadia N. Abuelezam Stacey Hoffman Barone Stewart M. Bond Ann W. Burgess Lindsey Camp Melissa PéRez Capotosto Catherine Conahan Maureen Connolly Donna Cullinan Sabianca Delva Julie P. Dunne Andrew Dwyer Joyce K. Edmonds Susan Emery Jane M. Flanagan Susan Gennaro Katherine E. Gregory Nanci Haze Elizabeth Howard Dorean Behney Hurley Dorothy A. Jones Corrine Jurgens Susan Kelly-Weeder Kellie Lavin LaPierre Christopher Sean Lee Karen Lyons Cherlie Magny-Normilus Kathleen Mansfield Carol Anne Marchetti Alison O. Marshall Beth McNutt-Clarke Erin Murphy-Swenson Tam H. Nguyen Luanne Nugent Monica O'Reilly-Jacob Britt Pados Jinhee Park Victor G. Petreca Patricia Reid Ponte Richard Ross, S.J Cassie Ryan Sherri B. St. Pierre Christine Repsha Colleen Simonelli Jacqueline Sly Patricia A. Tabloski Allan Thomas Sheila Tucker Patricia C. Underwood Melissa Kurtz Uveges Brittney van de Water Judith Vessey Caitlin McManus Vitale Lisa J. Wood Laura White Research & Clinical Focus Open Faculty Positions The Barry Family/Goldman Sachs Endowed Professorship in Nursing The Lelia Holden Carroll Endowed Professor in Nursing Related Links The Marjory Gordon Program Boston College Vice Provost for Research Clinical Experience Overview Become a Preceptor Simulation Lab Community Overview Student Leadership Opportunities International Programs Living in Boston Career Services Related Links Why BC Nursing? CSON Traditions BC Campus Life Current Student Resources Office of Student Services Close Directory A to Z Listing Search CSON Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close apply visit give Current Students Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Community Student Leadership Opportunities Community Student Leadership Opportunities International Programs Living in Boston Career Services Student Leadership Opportunities The Connell School nurtures leadership—in the classroom, in the community, in practice, and in research. Engaging with student organizations and enriching programs builds confidence and capabilities to serve your future. Get Involved Undergraduate Student Opportunities Graduate Student Opportunities Opportunities for Both Student Nurses' Association Boston College Student Nurses' Association is a local chapter of the National Student Nurses' Association (NSNA). This organization enables students to gain a broad perspective of various facets of nursing, including community health, legislation, and education. The local chapter meets monthly, participates in campus events, and offers peer networking as well as opportunities to travel to state and national meetings. School of Nursing Senate The Nursing Senate is the official representative of the undergraduate students in the School of Nursing. Among its purposes are to aid in the development of the nursing student, to contribute to standards of nursing education, to serve on School of Nursing committees, and to collaborate with the Boston College Student Nurses' Association as well as other nursing related organizations. Undergraduate Research Fellows Program (UGRF) Through the UGRF, students work alongside faculty members on research projects, gaining invaluable exposure to scholarly work while earning a monetary award. Freshman Leadership Seminar This semester-long course helps ease the transition for first-year students. Freshmen gather weekly in small groups led by CSON seniors and juniors to discuss a variety of topics, including clinicals, academics, service trips, and time management. SCRUBS Retreat SCRUBS (Sophomore Connell Retreat for Undergraduate B.S. Students) is a collaboration between the Center for Student Formation and the Connell School. It is a two-day retreat for sophomores to reflect and prepare for the academic changes ahead—specialized upper-class courses, simulation labs, clinical and post-graduation job opportunities. It features presentations by professors, alumni, and upperclassmen, along with professional development workshops, small-group breakout discussions, and unstructured time for students to relax and recharge during the heart of the academic year. The inaugural SCRUBS retreat Graduate Nurses' Association (GNA) Dedicated to improving the lives of all graduate students at the Connell School, the GNA represents the interests of students to deans and leadership, acts as a change agent for various issues, and facilitates community outreach. Students can run for various executive board positions. Teaching Assistantship Opportunities Graduate students may apply for full- and part-time teaching assistant positions—earning a stipend while gaining invaluable experience working alongside faculty mentors. Work may involve preparing and monitoring exams, doing first reads on papers, and clinical teaching. Sigma Theta Tau, Alpha Chi Chapter Nursing’s international honor society, Sigma Theta Tau International, recognizes superior achievement and the development of leadership qualities. Activities and resources also foster high professional standards, encourage creative work, and strengthen commitment to the ideals and purposes of the profession. Represented in more than 70 countries, Sigma Theta Tau International members put themselves and the nursing profession at the forefront of health care. The Alpha Chi Chapter at Boston College develops innovative programs that contribute to the international society’s mission and commitment. Keys to Inclusive Leadership in Nursing (KILN) Every year, more than 50 undergraduate and graduate students from backgrounds traditionally underrepresented in nursing get help maximizing their leadership potential through the KILN scholarship program. The program prepares participants for the challenges of providing nursing care in our increasingly multicultural society and nurtures their ability to create positive social change. KILN scholars receive financial support, faculty mentorship, and opportunities to network with nurse leaders. This work has been generously supported by the Price Family Foundation. KILN Quick Links Events & Traditions Current Students Why BC Nursing? Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Facts & Figures Back To Top Back To Top Connell School of Nursing Maloney Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Call: 617-552-4250 About Admission & Aid Academics Faculty & Research Clinical Experience Community Apply Visit Give Find Your Path Connect with Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College