Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Registrar's Office Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search Registrar's OfficeOpen main menu Close Open search Home Registration Payment Records Transfer Graduation Calendars Forms Faculty & Staff Resources Back Faculty & Staff Resources ARGOS FERPA Forms Grading Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU USU Home Registrar Records Access Your Records Access Your Records Official Transcripts A transcript is a record of your academic progress, including transfer courses, credits earned by exam, and earned degrees. Link Order Official Transcript The easiest and cheapest option is to order your transcript online from the National Student Clearinghouse. (If you attended USU Eastern, formerly CEU, prior to Fall 2011 you will need to order the transcript using the College of Eastern Utah as your selected school.) Unofficial Transcripts An unofficial transcript lists all of a student’s coursework, without the university seal, signature of the Registrar, or the name of the university. Link View Unofficial Transcript You can view and print your unofficial transcript at any time from Banner. Degree Works Degree Works is USU's degree-audit tool that provides a review of past and current coursework organized into completed and incomplete requirements. Link Degree Works Access You can take ownership of your academic plan by learning how to use Degree Works and all of its features. Diploma Replacement A diploma replacement order can be done in person or via mail. All instructions, including mailing address and cost, are found in the form below. File Diploma Replacement Form Please review the diploma replacement form for more instructions. Your Rights The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) of 1974 prohibits Utah State University from releasing certain personally identifiable information from a student’s record to a third party (e.g. parent, spouse, etc.) without the student’s explicit consent. Learn More about FERPA Related Topics Update Your Records Share & Restrict Access to Your Records Still have questions? Contact us to provide feedback about this page or ask a question. If you see this don't fill out this input box. *Name *Email Address Page *Questions or Comments Submit Privacy Notice USU Registrar's Office CONTACT Us Taggart Student Center Room 246 1600 Old Main Hill Logan, UT 84322-1600 Email: registrar@usu.edu Phone: (435) 797-1116 Fax: (435) 797-1110 Processes How to Register Tuition & Payment Graduation How to Transfer RECORDS & CREDITS Update Records Access Records Share or Restrict Access Transfer Credits Degree Works Help Registration FAQ Tuition & Payment FAQ Graduation FAQ All Frequently Asked Questions Forms Assessment Faculty & Staff ARGOS FERPA Forms Grading Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page