COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Studio Arts Section Menu Studio Arts Bachelor of Fine Arts and Bachelor of Arts in Studio Arts ADCI studio arts majors benefit from access to studio space, multiple exhibition venues and new technology. Students choose from eight different studio arts concentrations: Ceramics Media encourages experimentation in hand building, slip casting, wheel throwing and glaze techniques. Students learn how to custom-make their own glazes and clay bodies to develop their professional artistic style. ADCI provides facilities and equipment to learn a number of firing processes, such as stoneware, low-fire, wood firing and raku. The Ceramics Guild is one of the most active student groups in the school, hosting several events including the Empty Bowls Chili Cook-Off and twice-yearly ceramics sales. The Ceramics Guild also participates in the annual conference held by the National Council on the Education of Ceramic Arts (NCECA). Painting offers endless expressive and conceptual possibilities. Students who choose this concentration set off on a demanding but highly rewarding academic and career path. ADCI’s painting program requires intensive studio work. Dedicated students will have a command of art history and theory and maintain an awareness of contemporary art practices. Mastering of technical paintings skills is important, but so is experimentation and interdisciplinarity. Take risks. Unleash your creative potential. Make the unreal real and let your best ideas come to life. Photo Media is a means of self-expression just as much as a way to document the world around us. This concentration prepares students to be professionals in advertising, business, and media as well as fine art. ADCI provides high-end computers for post-production work and printers—including a large format printer—that produce museum-quality photographs. Our photo media facilities also include traditional darkrooms. Students are encouraged to experiment, challenge themselves and develop their individual voices by exploring the medium from traditional techniques such as tintype and cyanotypes to contemporary digital methods. Sculpture Media is arguably the most expansive of all studio arts disciplines. Encompassing objects of all sizes, from miniscule to monumental, with materials as diverse as the imagination can ponder, students pursuing sculpture media learn all manner of making in 3D and 4D. Clay figure modeling, steel fabrication, wood and stone carving, bronze and aluminum casting, vacuum-forming, installation, performance and digital design take place continually in the sculpture studios in Henrion Hall. Advanced students are expected to pursue disciplined study in theory, art history and materials through original work, studio critique, class readings and discussion. Print Media provides students with comprehensive education in lithography, etching, engraving, silk screen and more. Through the creation of original work, studio critique, class readings and discussion, students develop an interpretive and analytical approach to understanding their own work. Faculty teach traditional, paper-based print media alongside comic books, magazines, t-shirts, billboards, zines, signs, and posters. Learn how to embrace both technical proficiency and experimentation in order to develop your own multidisciplinary, contemporary practice. Applied Drawing students develop an understanding of drawing as a means of communication and expression. From mixed media to traditional graphite and charcoal, students have opportunities to experiment, tell stories, develop characters and work on and off the page. This concentration is geared toward studio artists as well as students pursuing illustration or cartooning as a profession. Classes include Mixed Media in Drawing, Book Design and Production, and Drawing for Visual Communication. With a mix of observational studies, narrative assignments and conceptual projects, students’ problem-solving abilities will be pushed and creative excellence realized. Community & Social Practice is a relatively new academic discipline that teaches students about the creative process through community engagement. Challenge your understanding of traditional art with classes addressing a wide range of issues, from social injustice to public art initiatives. Through collaboration with with civic partners, non-profits and art organizations, students have opportunities to take their ideas out of traditional classroom and galleries spaces in order to address social issues, reach new audiences and make a difference. Electronic Media embraces technology not just as a tool, but also as a medium to explore and subvert. This concentration includes everything from video installation to interactive sculptures to gifs. Electronic Media provides many challenges and new avenues of creative expression. Learn how technology is changing in the contemporary art world and find the best way to engage your audience. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©