Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Maguire Center Events Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Student Engagement Student Engagement The Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Teaching and Research Teaching and Research Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grant Program Resources Resources COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Newsroom Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog About Us About Us Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Give ☰ Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Events Ethics & Compliance Certificate Ethics & Compliance Certificate Organizational leaders face the constant challenge of making ethical choices in difficult times. In two content-rich days, this certificate in Corporate Ethics & Compliance will deliver insights into how organizations are responding—and should respond—to today’s ethical challenges. You’ll strengthen your professional credentials and give yourself an immediate edge as you prepare for higher levels of responsibility. The program is a collaboration within Southern Methodist University among the Cox School of Business, the Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership at the Dedman School of Law, and the Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility. "With dynamic presentations, challenging dialogue, and an interactive case discussion, this outstanding certificate program helps you build your knowledge and skills related to legal, compliance, internal audit, and corporate security, in order to implement, maintain, and improve your compliance program," says Eric F. Hinton, Director of the Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership. The 2022 Certificate Program will take place on September 7-8, 2022. For more information about this program, please contact the Director of the Robert B. Rowling Center, Eric Hinton, at 214-768-2501 or RowlingCenter@smu.edu. https://www.smu.edu/Law/Centers/Rowling-Center/Conferences-and-Symposia/2020-Certificate-in-Ethics-and-Compliance Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share