Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Education Menu About At a Glance Contact the School Office of the Dean Dean's Biography Dean's Office Directory Dean's Office Directory Centennial Events Featured Profiles Impact Living-Learning Center Mission of the School of Education Outcomes Consumer Information Why Baylor School of Education Learning Spaces Marrs McLean Science Learning Resources Center (LRC) Media Lab Mathematics Education Lab Impact Living-Learning Center Academics Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dept. of Educational Leadership Dept. of Educational Psychology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MA in Teaching (MAT) MAT Admission Information MAT Degree Requirements / Coursework Certification Information (OPP) MAT Joint Programs Global Programs Undergraduate Study Abroad Graduate Study Abroad Explore our Programs Apply Tk20 Info Tk20 Login for Student/Faculty For Students For Cooperating Teachers For Faculty Outreach & Applied Research Partnerships Professional Development Schools The Co-Teach Model Partner School Districts Greater Waco Area Superintendents Impact Living-Learning Center Centers Baylor Center for School Leadership Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Clinic for Assessment, Research and Education (CARE) Baylor Autism Resource Clinic Grants & Initiatives Research Stories Professional Development for Educators Summer Literacy Institute Fall GT Conference Mathematics Teacher Academy Social Studies Academy Mathematics for Teachers of Early Learners (MTEL) Academies & Institutes of BCSL (Baylor Center for School Leadership) Baylor Beginning Teacher Institute Summer Superintendents Institute Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Faculty Meet the Faculty Faculty Positions Assistant Professor in Curriculum & Instruction Clinical Assistant Professor of ELementary Education Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor of School Psychology (Dallas campus) Assistant or Associate Professor of School Psychology (Waco campus) Grants & Initiatives Centers Students Prospective Undergraduates Why a BSEd at Baylor? Degree Planners & Certification Areas FAQs Visit the School of Education SOE Glossary Student Spotlights Transfer Students Impact Living-Learning Center Meet Dr. Neil Shanks Meet Your Major Podcast Prospective Graduate Students Advising and Degree Programs Schedule an Advising Appointment Meet the Advisors Degree Planners & Certification Areas Apply to Graduate Advising FAQs Equivalent Courses Tool for Baylor Baylor Undergraduate Catalog Give Feedback Certification Information Complaint Policy Office of Professional Practice (OPP) Certification Information Baylor University Technology Practices in Teaching and Learning Complaint Process Action Research Schedule A Visit Visits: Prospective Undergraduate Students Visits: Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships for Undergraduates Student Profiles Student Services Advising Learning Resources Center (LRC) Student Wellness Services Professional Meeting Support for Undergraduates Kappa Delta Pi Action Research Student Advisory Council Professional Licensure Information MEET the SOE podcast Alumni Alumni Awards Keep in Touch Alumni Profiles Update Your Information Impact Newsletter Online Homecoming Centennial News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Make a Gift Baylor>School of Education>News>SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus Updates These updates are specific to the Baylor School of Education. Full updates from Baylor University are here: baylor.edu/coronavirus. Please watch social media @baylorSOE (Twitter, Facebook, Instagram), the website at baylor.edu/SOE and university email for updates specific to School of Education. Aug. 18, 2020 Clinical Experience Update for Teaching Associates All Baylor SOE Teaching Associates (TA) received an email on Aug. 13 with information specific to their program. It includes links to two (2) forms that must be completed before the TA experience can begin. Students should look for email from SOE@baylor.edu and complete the forms. Students who did not receive an email should contact Dr. Goree in the Office of Professional Practice at Krystal_Goree@baylor.edu. The School of Education is implementing safety precautions (in addition to Baylor campus precautions) at all Professional Development School (PDS) sites. Daily health screenings will occur at every PDS campus, face coverings will be required of all Teaching Associates at all times while on the PDS campus, and TA seminars will be conducted in a format that aligns with Baylor’s social distancing safety measures. SOE professors, deans, and the Office of Professional Practice (OPP) have been working on placements over the past several months to ensure that TA experiences are valuable and rewarding. It is our goal to offer learning opportunities that will prepare students to be the best teachers possible as they complete our educator preparation program, enter their first teaching experience, and contribute to the profession for years to come. Tentative TA Schedules are as follows: EC-6 and EC-6 with Gifted and Talented TAs begin Monday, Aug. 24, with a virtual seminar with their University Liaison and Site Coordinator. A link to the seminar will be sent to each student via email prior to Aug. 24. Aug. 24 – Aug. 27 8:00 - 9:00 a.m. — Virtual Seminar with UL/SBC 9:00 - 10:45 a.m. — Google Suite and/or other Virtual Technology Training Aug. 31 – Sept. 2 8:00 - 9:00 a.m. — Virtual Seminar with UL/SBC 9:00 - 10:45 a.m.— Google Suite and/or other Virtual Technology Training Sept. 3 8:00 - 10:45 a.m. — Virtual Co-Teach Foundations Training Sept. 7* 8:00 - 9:00 a.m. — Virtual Seminar with UL/SBC 9:00 - 10:45 a.m. — Google Suite and/or other Virtual Technology Training (*Monday, Sept. 7, Labor Day, is not a Baylor University holiday, and students will continue to participate in virtual seminars and technology training.) Sept. 8 Report to PDS campus to begin Teaching Associate experience with students Secondary Teaching Associates Secondary TAs begin Monday, Aug. 24, with a virtual seminar with their University Liaison and Site Coordinator. A link to the seminar will be sent to each student via email prior to Aug. 24. Aug. 24 9:00 - 10:30 a.m. — TA Seminar (Online Synchronous) 1:25 - 4:25 p.m. — Content Methods Course (Face-to-Face) Aug. 31 9:00 - 10:30 a.m. — TA Seminar (Online Synchronous) 1:25 - 4:25 p.m. — Content Methods Course (Face-to-Face) Sept. 1 - 4 8:00 - 10:30 a.m. — Report to Midway Middle School to begin TA Experience Aug. 5, 2020 Clinical Experience Update for Interns All Baylor School of Education Interns (senior student teachers) should have received a customized email on Monday, Aug. 3. The information indicates the date on which they must report for the Intern experience and be present for training, along with other important information and links. Schedules vary based on the school assignment, so students should refer only to their own email. The emails were sent from SOE@baylor.edu. Students who did not receive an email should contact Dr. Goree in the Office of Professional Practice at Krystal_Goree@baylor.edu. Because Labor Day is not a Baylor holiday this year, training is scheduled for that class day, and Baylor students should plan to be in class on Monday, Sept. 7. Interns will engage in either virtual, hybrid, or in-person instruction of students in local schools, based on the teaching format of their assigned Mentor Teacher. If at any time during the clinical experience, the district, the school, or Mentor Teacher changes formats, the Intern will follow the Mentor Teacher. This method is in accordance with clinical teaching guidelines as shared by the state. Intern seminars will be offered virtually for all students. School of Education faculty will work to provide instructional experiences for any student who is diagnosed with COVID-19 or isolated due to contact with a COVID-positive person. June 26, 2020 Baylor Update to Fall Schedule Baylor has announced an updated fall schedule with significant changes, including the elimination of several holidays and an early end of on-campus classes. Go here for the ANNOUNCEMENT and FALL CALENDAR. June 17, 2020 Fall Field Experiences Update The School of Education has been closely monitoring rulings from The Texas Education Agency (TEA) and the State Board for Educator Certification (SBEC) throughout the COVID-19 epidemic. Based on waivers signed by Governor Greg Abbott and a recent rule from SBEC, we are currently working with our school district partners to develop multiple field-based experience scenarios to guarantee that all our students are involved in experiences that meet the certification requirements of the state as well as certification and graduation requirements of our program. Additionally, the health and safety of our Baylor students will be carefully addressed as determinations are made regarding all field and clinical experiences. Rest assured, regardless of district/campus placements and the ever-evolving changes brought about by COVID-19, all of the scenarios will be designed and implemented to provide all our students with safe, high-quality experiences and mentorship opportunities that are a hallmark of our School of Education. April 23, 2020 Students living in the SOE's partner Impact Living-Learning Center in South Russell Hall have two options for move out: 1. Immediately Available: Packing & Shipping/Storage options through Campus Crates/The UPS Store. This would allow students to remain where they are and allow Campus Crates/The UPS Store to act on their behalf by packing, shipping and/or storing their items. Students would be directly responsible to Campus Crates/The UPS Store for payment. Appointments for this process are available now through MyHousing portal. 2. Deferred Option: Once the Shelter in Place order is lifted, students would be able to make an appointment for time slots to access their room and pack their belongings to move out. If students would like to store any items with Campus Crates/The UPS Store, they may contact them directly. Campus Living & Learning will maintain communication with students and update them if/when the Shelter in Place order is lifted so the appointment process can begin. More details about these Move-Out processes and associated costs are available through MyHousing portal. Please be assured that we have been keeping your rooms locked and your belongings safe. If you have any questions, please contact living@baylor.edu. April 13, 2020 SOE adds list of Coronavirus FAQ The School of Education has compiled an FAQ list regarding changes in SOE academic requirements, certification testing, and other SOE-specific issues during the time of COVID-19: SOE CORONAVIRUS FAQ If you have a suggested question to add to the list, you may request updates by emailing: BaylorImpact@baylor.edu. MARCH 18, 2020 BCDD Update Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities (BCDD) has been unable to see clients in person (since March 16) due to restrictions for the prevention of COVID-19 and is communicating with our parents and caregivers through email and telehealth consultations. If you are a BCDD client, you can reach out by email at bcdd@baylor.edu or by phone at (254) 537-1042. BCDD have free supplies available to families in need and are happy to help in any way we can to best support your family during this challenging time. BCDD has compiled helpful online resources here for families of children with Autism Spectrum Disorder and families in general: Resources for BCDD Clients during COVID-19 MARCH 17, 2020 Spring Semester Updates for Baylor EPP (Educator Preparation Program) Students Baylor School of Education As Baylor University follows the latest guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and our federal, state and local health officials, the university has made the decision to extend online instruction for the remainder of the spring semester. In light of this decision, and in communication with University and TEA officials, leaders in the School of Education have determined the following: Textbook and Course Resources: Course Instructors will provide students with course resources and/or links to course resources required to successfully participate in and complete all online course requirements. Novice Field Experiences (TED 1312, EDP 2360, EDP 3470, EDP 2350): Students enrolled in these courses will not be required to participate in or complete the classroom-based field experiences for the spring semester. Course instructors will determine what, if any, online coursework will take the place of these experiences. Teaching Associate Field Experiences: Students enrolled in the Teaching Associate experience will not be required to participate in or complete the classroom-based field experience for the spring semester. Course instructors will determine what, if any, online coursework will take the place of these experiences. Based on the Teaching Associate experiences that occurred prior to Spring Break, Teaching Associates* have met the Texas Education Agency (TEA) requirement for these experiences. (*In the rare instance that a Teaching Associate has not met the TEA requirement, he/she will be individually contacted about how to meet the requirement via online video or technology-based methods.) Intern Clinical Experiences: Students enrolled in the two-semester Internship experience will not be required to participate in or complete the classroom-based field experience for the spring semester. Based on the Internship experiences that occurred prior to Spring Break, Interns* have met the Texas Education Agency (TEA) requirement for these experiences. (*In the rare instance that an Intern has not met the TEA requirement, he/she will be individually contacted about how to meet the requirement once further information and guidance is provided by the TEA. All one-semester Interns [MAT, Sports Pedagogy, and Music Education students] will be individually contacted about how to meet the TEA requirement once further information and guidance is provided by the TEA.) Electronic Benchmark Self-Assessment (EBSA): All Teaching Associates and off-cycle Interns will complete the EBSA requirement as previously indicated within the course syllabus. Any minor modifications to the requirements and/or timeline will be communicated by individual course instructors. Efolio: All on-cycle Interns will complete the Efolio requirement as previously indicated within the course syllabus. Any minor modifications to the requirements and/or timeline will be communicated by individual course instructors. Three-Way Conference: The Teaching Associate and Intern requirement to participate in a three-way conference is eliminated. Action Research: The Intern requirement to complete an Action Research project, submit a synopsis, and participate in the Action Research Symposium is eliminated. Diagnostic Testing: We are currently reviewing options for Teaching Associates to participate in online diagnostic testing experiences. It is anticipated that the current diagnostic testing calendar will be maintained, and we will provide updates and information as they become available. Teaching Associate Required Trainings (Dyslexia and Mental Health, Substance Abuse, and Youth Suicide Training): Teaching Associates are required to complete the trainings as previously indicated. The training videos are available in Tk20, and, once completed, Teaching Associates are to upload training certificates within Tk20. Intern Orientation for Teaching Associates: Some components of the orientation will be provided online and other components will be conducted at the start of the fall 2020 term. Information and resources related to the online orientation will be provided through the Canvas Community for Teaching Associates. Final Evaluation Intern Seminar: Interns will be provided with links to all required evaluation forms. Information and resources related to the final evaluation will be provided through the Canvas Community for Interns. MARCH 12, 2020 Undergraduate Field Experiences With the goal of reducing transmission of the coronavirus, Baylor University has extended Spring Break for an additional week and has advised students to determine if campus or your permanent residence is safest. In light of this decision, all clinical in-school experiences that would occur next week (March 16-20) for School of Education students are cancelled. This includes Internship/Student Teaching experiences, Teaching Associate experiences, and any additional course-embedded fieldwork. The SOE is in communication with University and TEA (Texas Education Agency) officials to determine next steps for fulfilling clinical experience requirements. As soon as decisions are made, information will be shared via email, social media, and the SOE website. Additionally, the Job Fair scheduled for March 19 will not occur. We are in contact with the Career Center and will provide updates regarding the possible rescheduling of this event. Please watch social media @baylorSOE (Twitter, Facebook, Instagram), the website at baylor.edu/SOE and university email for updates specific to School of Education events and other issues. Baylor University updates are posted to https://www.baylor.edu/coronavirus/. News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Apply Now Make a Gift Contact Us Visit Campus Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students School of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About At a Glance Contact the School Office of the Dean Dean's Biography Dean's Office Directory Dean's Office Directory Centennial Events Featured Profiles Impact Living-Learning Center Mission of the School of Education Outcomes Consumer Information Why Baylor School of Education Learning Spaces Marrs McLean Science Learning Resources Center (LRC) Location and Hours Check-Out Procedures Media Lab Mathematics Education Lab Impact Living-Learning Center Academics Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dept. of Educational Leadership Dept. of Educational Psychology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MA in Teaching (MAT) MAT Admission Information MAT Degree Requirements / Coursework Certification Information (OPP) MAT Joint Programs Global Programs Undergraduate Study Abroad Carpenter Embedded Global Classroom Baylor Education in Costa Rica Graduate Study Abroad Explore our Programs Apply Tk20 Info Tk20 Login for Student/Faculty For Students For Cooperating Teachers For Faculty Outreach & Applied Research Partnerships Professional Development Schools What is a PDS? The Co-Teach Model Partner School Districts Greater Waco Area Superintendents Impact Living-Learning Center Centers Baylor Center for School Leadership Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development University for Young People (UYP) UYP 2020 Fall GT Conference Super Saturdays Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Clinic for Assessment, Research and Education (CARE) Contact CARE Donate to CARE CARE Mission and Goals CARE Community Programs Skill Building Program Problem Behavior Support Clinic Feeding Support Program Baylor Autism Resource Clinic Grants & Initiatives Research Stories Professional Development for Educators Summer Literacy Institute Fall GT Conference Mathematics Teacher Academy 2019 MTA Facebook Album 2018 MTA Facebook Album 2017 MTA Facebook Album Social Studies Academy 2019 Social Studies Summer Summit Mathematics for Teachers of Early Learners (MTEL) Map Academies & Institutes of BCSL (Baylor Center for School Leadership) Baylor Beginning Teacher Institute Summer Superintendents Institute Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Faculty Meet the Faculty Faculty Positions Assistant Professor in Curriculum & Instruction Clinical Assistant Professor of ELementary Education Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor of School Psychology (Dallas campus) Assistant or Associate Professor of School Psychology (Waco campus) Grants & Initiatives Centers Students Prospective Undergraduates Why a BSEd at Baylor? Degree Planners & Certification Areas FAQs Visit the School of Education SOE Glossary Student Spotlights Transfer Students Impact Living-Learning Center Meet Dr. Neil Shanks Meet Your Major Podcast Prospective Graduate Students Advising and Degree Programs Schedule an Advising Appointment Meet the Advisors Degree Planners & Certification Areas Degree Planners 2019 - beyond Degree Planners - 2018 Apply to Graduate Advising FAQs Equivalent Courses Tool for Baylor Baylor Undergraduate Catalog Give Feedback Certification Information Complaint Policy Office of Professional Practice (OPP) Certification Information Testing for Certification (all programs) Criminal History Evaluations Texas Requirements & Process for Certification Baylor Process for Admittance to Teacher Education Program (undergraduate & MAT) Baylor Process for Admittance to Superintendent Certification Program (EdD in K-12) Baylor Process for Admittance to Principal Certification Program (MA in School Leadership) Benefits and Waivers for Military Service Members Baylor University Technology Practices in Teaching and Learning Complaint Process Action Research 2022 Action Research Symposium 2021 Action Research Program 2019 Action Research Monograph Schedule A Visit Visits: Prospective Undergraduate Students Visits: Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships for Undergraduates Student Profiles Student Services Advising Learning Resources Center (LRC) Student Wellness Services Professional Meeting Support for Undergraduates Kappa Delta Pi Action Research Student Advisory Council Professional Licensure Information MEET the SOE podcast Alumni Alumni Awards Keep in Touch Alumni Profiles Update Your Information Impact Newsletter Online Homecoming Centennial News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Make a Gift