Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact You are here Home Featured Student Profiles Imelda Adjei FULL PROFILE Pendo Abbo Back when she was choosing among top engineering programs, Pendo Abbo '19 had one main criterion: someplace that wouldn't "put her academic experience in a box." FULL PROFILE Vikas Arun Vikas Arun '17, a professional tap dancer studying operations research and computer science at Columbia Engineering, is all about efficiency--of movement on the dance floor, in the ways organizations can work smarter, and in how data can help direct ambitious projects. FULL PROFILE Alex Battey Being a PhD candidate in plasma physics, one might expect to find Alex Battey in San Diego, where he regularly conducts experiments with the renowned DIII-D tokamak. But addressing the famous San Diego Comic-Con? FULL PROFILE Sarah Berlinger For electrochemical engineer Sarah Berlinger, who comes from a family of artists, developing renewable energy alternatives is the ultimate creative expression. Climate change has placed humanity at a "pivotal point," she says, and engineers innovating better, safer, and more efficient ways to power the world are making an incalculable impact. FULL PROFILE Amar Bhardwaj The key to sustaining sustainability is making eco-friendly options cheaper and better than less conscious alternatives, believes chemical engineer and environmentalist Amar Bhardwaj '20. FULL PROFILE Angela Cao For Angela (Xi) Cao MS'17, data is power: the power to invest more fruitfully, to run businesses more strategically, and to figure out what customers want even before they do. As for how to best utilize it, that takes creativity. FULL PROFILE Ozgenur Celik FULL PROFILE Tingjun Chen FULL PROFILE Jahran Dale For Jahrane Dale, who has always loved building things, Columbia was his first and only choice. He wanted to ground his STEM endeavors "in a human context," he says, with the arts and humanities helping round out his approach. FULL PROFILE Julia Di Electrical engineer, computer scientist, and roboticist Julia Di '18 shoots for the stars--literally. FULL PROFILE Mounir Ennenbach As a Columbia College first-year eying a career in medicine, Mounir Ennenbach '16SEAS found himself outraged by a leaky showerhead in his residence hall. After it dripped for several days to general indifference, just submitting a maintenance request wasn't enough: he measured how long it took to fill a plastic water bottle, and calculated that the single plumbing fixture was wasting more water every day, 35 gallons, than the per capita daily consumption of the nation of Jordan, where he'd grown up. FULL PROFILE item: (1 - 12) Next › 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact