Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Safety Services » Crime Prevention Set Navigation title in component Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Crime Prevention What is crime prevention? Crime prevention is the anticipation, recognition and appraisal of a crime risk, and the initiation of some action to reduce or remove it. To the left, or in the menu above for mobile users, you will find safety tips regarding common crimes on and near campus. While nothing can completely eliminate your risk, following those recommendations may reduce it. What should I do if I see something suspicious? If you see something suspicious, or see a crime being committed, call 9-1-1 immediately, if it is safe to do so. If it is not safe to call 9-1-1, but you can use your phone, use the Bearcat Guardian app’s tip feature to send a message to UCPD. What safety resources does UC Public Safety provide? UC Police and Security Officers patrol campus 24/7 for the safety and security of our campus community. In addition, Transportation Services operates NightRide, a safe and free nighttime shuttle service that anyone with a Bearcat ID can use. Students, faculty and staff can also benefit from Bearcat Guardian, a safety app that includes a safety timer, a tip feature and helpful phone numbers and documents. In addition, UC has more than 280 blue help phones strategically placed around campus and in campus garages. The phones connect to dispatchers in our 911 Communications Center. They can be used for emergency and non-emergency needs. UC Public Safety also encourages the campus community to register their bicycles, which can help identify your bicycle if it is stolen and recovered, and to get their valuables engraved, a free service provided by the department. To have an item engraved, please come to Edwards Three during business hours. To register your bike, fill out our digital form. What else should I know? Information on harassment, stalking and dating violence can be found here, and information on sex crimes can be found here. UCPD can be reached at 513-556-1111, and the Crime Victim Services Coordinator can be reached at 513-556-4905. Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top