Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of English Undergraduate Graduate People Internships News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People Staff Faculty General Inquiries Take Action Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of English People Shelby Crosby Shelby Crosby Associate Professor, Coordinator of African American Literature Phone 901.678.4583 Email scrosby1@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2226 Office Patterson 423 Office Hours Call for Hours Education B.A., 1997, Morehead State University M.A., 2002, State University of New York at Buffalo Ph.D., 2007, State University of New York at Buffalo Academic Summary Dr. Crosby's research spans mid-nineteenth century to the early twentieth century African American literature, representations of womanhood (particularly black womanhood), and critical race theory. It threads together critical race, black feminism, and literary historical frameworks to interrogate an American national story. Dr. Crosby is currently working on a book manuscript that examines the pervasive derogatory ideologies of black womanhood. Using black feminist theory to ground the text, she will examine such authors as Frederick Douglass, Williams Wells Brown, and Martin Delany, arguing that, through their adoption of traditional demarcations of white womanhood, black women are further pushed to the margins of American society. Select Publications "Trying to Understand: A Daughter's Prayer." The Feminist Wire. 19 March 2014. Web. "Black Womanhood and Reiteration in Paul Laurence Dunbar's The Sport of the Gods." CEAMAGazine: A Journal of the College English Association. March 2014. "Black Girlhood Interrupted: Race, Gender, and Colonization in Nalo Hopkinson's Midnight Robber." Contemporary Speculative Fiction. Ed. M. Keith Booker. Massachusetts: Salem Press, 2013. 187-203. "Conservative or a Visionary: The Journalistic Career of Zora Neale Hurston." Critical Insights: Zora Neale Hurston. Ed. Sharon Jones. Massachusetts: Salem Press, 2013. 209-229. "Melville's Democratic America." Critical Insights: Herman Melville. Ed. Eric Link. Massachusetts: Salem Press, 2013. 163-179. "Complicating Blackness: The Politics and Journalism of Zora Neale Hurston." Zora Neale Hurston: an Annotated Bibliography of Works of Criticism. Eds. Verner Mitchell & Cynthia Davis. New York: Scarecrow Press, 2013. 109-117. "Language of Empowerment: My Love of Black Feminism," Black Feminism Journal, May 2012 "The Body Politic and Cultural Miscegenation in Hope Leslie or, Early Times in the Massachusetts" CLA Journal, December 2011. "The Social Consciousness of Melville" accepted in Critical Insights: Herman Melville. Fall 2011 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/2/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.