Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Natural Sciences Physics Access Course Offerings PHY 101 Introductory Physics I Professor/Instructor A course in fundamental physics that covers classical mechanics, fluid mechanics, basic thermodynamics, sounds, and waves. Meets premedical requirements. One lecture, three classes, one three-hour laboratory. PHY 102 Introductory Physics II Professor/Instructor Continuation of 101. A course in fundamental physics that covers electricity, magnetism, and an introduction to the quantum world. Meets premedical requirements. Two 90-minute lectures, one preceptorial, and one three-hour laboratory. PHY 103 General Physics I Professor/Instructor The physical laws that govern the motion of objects, forces, and forms of energy in mechanical systems are studied at an introductory level. Calculus-based, primarily for engineering and science students, meets premedical requirements. Some preparation in physics and calculus is desirable; calculus may be taken concurrently. One demonstration lecture, three classes, one three-hour laboratory. PHY 104 General Physics II Professor/Instructor Continuation of 103. Electromagnetism from electrostatics, DC and AC circuits to optics, and topics of modern physics are treated at an introductory level. Some preparation in physics and calculus is desirable; calculus may be taken concurrently. Calculus-based, primarily for engineering and science students, meets premedical requirements. One demonstration lecture, three classes, one three-hour laboratory. PHY 105 Advanced Physics (Mechanics) Professor/Instructor PHY105 is an advanced first year course in classical mechanics, taught at a more sophisticated level than PHY103. Care is taken to make the course mathematically self contained, and accessible to the motivated physics student who may not have had exposure to an introductory college level physics course. The approach of PHY105 is that of an upper-division physics course, with more emphasis on the underlying formal structure of physics than PHY103, including an introduction to modern variational methods (Lagrangian dynamics), with challenging problem sets due each week and a mini-course in Special Relativity held over reading period. PHY 106 Advanced Physics (Electromagnetism) Professor/Instructor Parallels 104 at a more sophisticated level, emphasizing the unification of electric and magnetic forces and electromagnetic radiation. To enter this course, students must have done well in 103 or 105. 103 students must attend the lectures on special relativity given in reading period as part of 105. Three lectures, one class, one three-hour laboratory. PHY 108 Physics for the Life Sciences Professor/InstructorJason L. Puchalla A new one semester physics course designed specifically for life science majors. Selected topics in physical theory and experiment will be presented and highlighted using a range of examples. PHY 115A / STC 115 Physics for Future Leaders Professor/Instructor What do future leaders of our society need to know about physics and technology? The course is designed for non-scientists who will someday become our influential citizens and decision-makers. Whatever the field of endeavor, they will be faced with important decisions in which physics and technology play an important role. The purpose of this course is to present the key principles and the basic physical reasoning needed to interpret scientific and technical information and to make the best decisions. Topics include energy and power, atomic and subatomic matter, wave-like phenomena and light, and Einstein's theory of relativity. PHY 115B / STC 115 Physics for Future Leaders Professor/Instructor What do future leaders of our society need to know about physics and technology? The course is designed for non-scientists who will someday become our influential citizens and decision-makers. Whatever the field of endeavor, they will be faced with important decisions in which physics and technology play an important role. The purpose of this course is to present the key principles and the basic physical reasoning needed to interpret scientific and technical information and to make the best decisions. Topics include energy and power, atomic and subatomic matter, wave-like phenomena and light, and Einstein's theory of relativity. EGR 191 / MAT 191 / PHY 191 An Integrated Introduction to Engineering, Mathematics, Physics Professor/InstructorPeter Daniel Meyers Taken concurrently with EGR/MAT/PHY 192. An integrated course that covers the material of PHY 103 and MAT 201 with the emphasis on applications to engineering. Physics topics include: mechanics with applications to fluid mechanics, wave phenomena, and thermodynamics. The lab revolves around a single project to build, launch, and analyze the flight dynamics of water-propelled rockets. One lecture, three preceptorials, one three-hour laboratory. EGR 192 / MAT 192 / PHY 192 / APC 192 An Integrated Introduction to Engineering, Mathematics, Physics Professor/InstructorCasey Lynn Kelleher Taken concurrently with EGR/MAT/PHY 191. An integrated course that covers the material of PHY 103 and MAT 201 with the emphasis on applications to engineering. Math topics include: vector calculus; partial derivatives and matrices; line integrals; simple differential equations; surface and volume integrals; and Green's, Stokes's, and divergence theorems. One lecture, two preceptorials. PHY 205 Classical Mechanics Professor/Instructor Classical mechanics, with emphasis on the Lagrangian method. The underlying physics is Newtonian, but with more sophisticated mathematics introduced as needed to understand more complex phenomena. Topics in this intensive course include the formalism of Lagrangian mechanics, central-force motion and scattering, rigid body motion and noninertial forces, small oscillations, coupled oscillations, and waves. Prerequisite: 103-104, or 105-106 (recommended), or permission of instructor; prior completion of MAT 201 or 203 recommended. Two 90-minute lectures. PHY 207 Mechanics and Waves Professor/Instructor Covers the basics of analytical mechanics, but shifts the emphasis to wave phenomena before moving on to aspects of quantum mechanics and quantum statistical mechanics. Special relativity is given greater weight than it usually is in PHY 205. Offers students a path toward the physics concentration that is less intensive than PHY 205 and more accessible to students with less mathematical background. Prerequisites: PHY103-104, or PHY105-106; one 200-level math course; or permission of instructor. Two 90-minute lectures. PHY 208 Principles of Quantum Mechanics Professor/Instructor An introduction to quantum mechanics, the physics of atoms, electrons, photons, and other elementary particles. Topics include state functions and the probability interpretation, the Schrödinger equation, the uncertainty principle, the eigenvalue problem, operators and their algebras, angular momentum and spin, perturbation theory, and the hydrogen atom. Prerequisites: PHY 106, PHY 205, or PHY 207 and MAT 203 or MAT 217, and MAT 204 or MAT 218 (MAT 204/MAT 218 can be taken concurrently); or instructor's permission. Two 90-minute lectures. PHY 209 Computational Physics Seminar Professor/Instructor Introduction to Python coding and its application to data collection, analysis and statistical inference. The course consists of weekly hands-on labs that introduce the students to the Linux coding environment with Jupyter and Python modules. Labs involve configuring a Raspberry Pi to interface with hardware sensors to collect interrupt-driven measurements. Multivariate discriminators and confidence levels for hypothesis testing will be applied to data samples. Labs are drawn from different forms of sensors data from accelerometers and photodetectors to external sources including radio-astronomy and XRF analysis of Art Museum paintings. PHY 210 Experimental Physics Seminar Professor/InstructorChristopher George Tully This seminar introduces fundamental techniques of electronics and instrumentation. The course consists of weekly hands-on labs that introduce the students to the fascinating world of electronics. We begin with learning how to build circuits and probe their behavior and then explore what can be done to create instrumentation and make measurements. We start with analog electronics and then proceed with programmable digital logic with FPGAs. The final project involves Machine Learning implemented in FPGAs, a glimpse of what modern electronics can do. ISC 231 / CHM 231 / COS 231 / MOL 231 / PHY 231 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences I Professor/InstructorThomas Gregor, Joshua Akey, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics, chemistry, molecular biology, and computer science. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214 and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC231 and ISC232 in the fall and ISC233 and ISC234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with calculus at the level of MAT103/104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. ISC 232 / CHM 232 / COS 232 / MOL 232 / PHY 232 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences I Professor/InstructorThomas Gregor, Joshua Akey, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics, chemistry, molecular biology, and computer science. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214 and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC 231 and ISC 232 in the fall and ISC 233 and ISC 234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with the calculus at the level of MAT 103-104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. ISC 233 / CHM 233 / COS 233 / MOL 233 / PHY 233 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences II Professor/InstructorJoshua William Shaevitz, Olga G. Troyanskaya, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics and chemistry, drawing on examples from biological systems. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214, and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC 231 and ISC 232 in the fall and ISC 233 and ISC 234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with the calculus at the level of MAT 103-104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. ISC 234 / CHM 234 / COS 234 / MOL 234 / PHY 234 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences II Professor/InstructorJoshua William Shaevitz, Olga G. Troyanskaya, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics and chemistry, drawing on examples from biological systems. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214 and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC 231 and ISC 232 in the fall and ISC 233 and ISC 234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with the calculus at the level of MAT 103-104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. PHY 301 Thermal Physics Professor/Instructor A unified introduction to the physics of systems with many degrees of freedom: thermodynamics and statistical mechanics, both classical and quantum. Applications will include phase equilibrium, classical and quantum gases, and properties of solids. Three lectures. Prerequisites: Any one of PHY 106, 205, 207 or 208, or instructor's permission. PHY 304 Advanced Electromagnetism Professor/Instructor Extensions of electromagnetic theory including some important applications of Maxwell's equations. Solutions to Laplace's equation--boundary value problems. Retarded potentials. Electromagnetic waves and radiation. Special relativity. Mathematical tools developed as required. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: 104 or 106. PHY 305 Introduction to the Quantum Theory Professor/Instructor A second course on the basic principles of quantum mechanics with emphasis on applications to problems from atomic and solid-state physics. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: 208. AST 309 / MAE 309 / PHY 309 / ENE 309 The Science of Fission and Fusion Energy Professor/InstructorRobert James Goldston We develop the scientific ideas behind fission and fusion energy. For fission we move from elementary nuclear physics to calculations of chain reactions, understanding how both reactors and nuclear weapons work. We examine safety and waste concerns, as well as nuclear proliferation. We look at new reactor concepts. For fusion we address the physics of confining hot, ionized gases, called plasmas. We address the control of large-scale instabilities and small-scale turbulence. We examine progress and prospects, as well as challenges, for the development of economically attractive fusion power. PHY 312 Experimental Physics Professor/Instructor The course offers six different experiments from the advanced laboratory collection. Experiments include Josephson effect, ß-decay, holography, Mössbauer spectroscopy, optical pumping. Lectures stress modern experimental methods and devices. One lecture, one laboratory. Load More More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice