Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About SONHS Academics Admission Faculty & Staff Research LIfe at SONHS About SONHS Academics Admission Faculty & Staff Research LIfe at SONHS Search Academic Deans' Meetings for Families Student Organizations Alumnus of Distinction SONHS Alumni Association Benefits Board of Directors Contact Us SONHS Lecture Series Parent and Family Engagement Diversity and Inclusivity About SONHS Academics Admission Faculty & Staff Research LIfe at SONHS Academic Deans' Meetings for Families Student Organizations Alumnus of Distinction SONHS Alumni Association Benefits Board of Directors Contact Us SONHS Lecture Series Parent and Family Engagement Diversity and Inclusivity Home Life at SONHS School of Nursing and Health Studies Alumni Association AAA School of Nursing and Health Studies Alumni Association Academic Deans' Meetings for Families Student Organizations Alumnus of Distinction SONHS Alumni Association Benefits Board of Directors Contact Us SONHS Lecture Series Parent and Family Engagement Diversity and Inclusivity Dear Alumni Community, I am honored and humbled to serve as the leader of this venerable association of dedicated, hardworking members on whose shoulders I stand. I extend special thanks to our current board members and immediate past president Carmen Sierra, B.S.N. ’96, who mentored me. On behalf of our board, I want to acknowledge all of our members and their families who have been affected by COVID-19, extend condolences to those who have lost loved ones, and uplift and encourage any members recovering from the novel coronavirus. The SONHS Alumni Association salutes all of the brave ’Canes working on the front line despite the threat of illness to them and their families. Like Florence Nightingale, we continue to hold the lamp and give hope to our isolated COVID-19 patients. I am excited to be part of this association, but recognize that this year, more than ever before, we face notable challenges that have halted our efforts to collaborate and connect in the usual and customary ways. COVID-19 has affected our members physically, psychologically, and economically, imposing unimaginable limitations. As a result of further limitations placed on us by physical distancing, several of our UM-sponsored P.R.I.D.E. activities are suspended or eliminated. Amid these challenges, your association is working creatively to fulfill its mission. First, we have always wanted to optimize the use of social media, and this year we are doing just that. We are also using Zoom as our primary meeting platform, so keep a lookout for upcoming meeting notices. Second, we plan to recognize our outstanding alums serving selflessly during this pandemic. Third, we look to support and provide educational opportunities for our members. Finally, we are exploring ways to address our school’s needs. So far this year, for example, we have collaborated with Beta Tau in a successful community Back-to-School Supplies Drive and are supporting the SONHS Alumni Web Series, sponsored by Dean Munro, which debuted in August. In closing, I implore you all to wear your mask, maintain physical distancing, and stay safe. Go ’Canes! Beverly Fray, B.S.N. ’03, M.S.N. ’06 President, SONHS Alumni Association Beverly Fray, Ph.D., APRN-BC, is a clinical educator with Jackson Health System. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Nursing and Health Studies P.O. Box 248153 Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3666 305-284-3666 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices