Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home School of Nursing Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing News Events Directory Give Search Search Search Search About Expand Overview Dean's Welcome Values, Mission, & Goals Facts & Rankings History Accreditation Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Wellness Center Contact Us Academics Expand Overview Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Compliance Certification Professional Licensure Disclosures Students Expand Overview Prospective Students Current Students Career Services Student Organizations Office of Student Services Learning Enhancement and Academic Progress (LEAP) Center Research Expand Overview Centers & Initiatives Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News Alumni & Giving Expand Our Donors Alumni Awards Overview Make a Gift Update Your Information Advisory Council Contact Support the School Online Gift Shop Alumni Reunion Faculty & Staff Expand Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Forms, Policies and Procedures (EID) Staff Award Preceptors Faculty Position Openings Home Research : Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives African American Mental Health and Wellness (AMEN) Program The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing and Division of Diversity and Community Engagement (DDCE) are partnering with the City of Austin, Mt. Zion Baptist Church, and Rehoboth Baptist Church to develop the AMEN - African American Mental Health and Wellness Program with a new initiative to support the mental and physical health of African American residents. Visit the African American Mental Health and Wellness (AMEN) Program. BioBehavioral Laboratory The BioBehavioral Laboratory provides state-of-the art laboratory services for researchers. These services are available to faculty at The University of Texas at Austin. The laboratory has state-of-the-art equipment to do many kinds of testing: immunological, endocrine, as well as genetics. Visit the BioBehavioral Laboratory. Brain Health Neuroscience Laboratory The Brain Health Neuroscience Laboratory at The University of Texas at Austin seeks to improve the lives of patients with chronic medical conditions by studying how diseases and their treatments affect brain health including cognition, sleep, mood and stress. Visit the Brain Health Neuroscience Laboratory Center for Excellence in Aging Services and Long Term Care The Center for Excellence in Aging Services and Long Term Care provides education and training to providers who work in long term care settings and lay learners interested in long term service and supports (LTSS). The partnership between the School of Nursing and the Health and Human Services Commission aims to share research based geriatric and disability best practices to improve the quality of care for all Texans in long term care. Visit the Center for Excellence in Aging Services and Long Term Care. Center for Health Equity Research (HER) The Health Equity Research Center’s mission is to provide an environment that strengthens and expands collaborative intervention research in nursing and related disciplines by developing, testing, evaluating and disseminating innovative self-management solutions to improve patient-centered care and health outcomes of people with chronic conditions. Visit the Center for Health Equity Research (HER). Center for Health Interprofessional Practice and Education (IPE) The Center for Health Interprofessional Practice and Education (IPE) leads The University of Texas at Austin’s efforts to transform health professions education by promoting innovative learning experiences, disseminating best practices, convening key health and education stakeholders, and championing impact-driven scholarship. Visit the Center for Health Interprofessional Practice and Education (IPE). Community Health Worker (CHW) Institute The Community Health Worker (CHW) Institute was established to improve the quality of life and health outcomes of underserved populations/communities in Central Texas focused on health promotion, chronic disease self-management, mental health and women's health. Visit the Community Health Worker (CHW) Institute Digital Heart Health At the Digital Heart Health, we explore a combination of digital tools to provide support for knowledge and behavior for heart failure self-care by older adults over 55 years living in the community. We study how digital tools can provide information and support behaviors for taking better care of your heart condition. Visit the Digital Heart Health. NightRest Study Nighttime agitation causes suffering for people with dementia, distresses caregivers, and often results in prescriptions for harmful antipsychotic medications. A sleep disorder, restless legs syndrome (RLS), may be causing nighttime agitation. The study will investigate if treatment of RLS with the FDA-approved medication, gabapentin enacarbil (Horizant®), improves sleep and reduces nighttime agitation, restless legs syndrome symptoms, and the use of antipsychotic medications. Visit the NightRest Study. Nursing Facility Quality Review Nursing Facility Quality Review will conduct a statewide measurement of the quality of care, quality of life, consumer satisfaction, and medication use in Texas Medicaid-certified nursing facilities. Nursing Facility Quality Review study funded by the Department of Aging and Disability Services. Visit the Nursing Facility Quality Review. Project HEALING The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing, in collaboration with generous funding from the Neuropathy Alliance of Texas, is conducting a study to learn more about the experiences of people with peripheral neuropathy (PN). The purpose of this study is to better understand what is important to people with neuropathy. Visit the Project HEALING. St. David’s Center for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Research in Underserved Populations The Center for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Research in Underserved Populations was established in 1999. In August of 2011, the St. David’s Foundation made a gift to the School of Nursing to create a permanent endowment to support the Center. In recognition of this gift, the Center was renamed the St. David’s Center for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Research in Underserved Populations. The mission of the center is to improve the health of underserved people through applied research. Visit the St. David's Center for Health Promotion and Research. Research Overview Centers & Initiatives AMEN Program BioBehavioral Laboratory Brain Health Neuroscience Laboratory Center for Excellence in Aging Services and Long Term Care Center for Health Equity Research (HER) Center for Health Interprofessional Practice and Education CHW Institute Digital Heart Health NightRest Study Nursing Facility Quality Review Project HEALING St. David’s Center for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Research in Underserved Populations Cain Center for Nursing Research Find Faculty Student Research Research News School of Nursing School of Nursing 1710 Red River St. Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-7913 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube About Academics Students Research Alumni & Giving Faculty & Staff News Events Directory Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022