Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Menu Digital Access Open Search Bar Search Submit search Main navigation Home About Us Digital Accessibility Lab Resources Accessibility Statement Siteimprove About Us About Us We are a team of accessibility professionals and students At Iowa State University, we are committed to addressing accessibility as we embrace new technologies. The Digital Accessibility Lab provides guidance, support and consultation to units throughout campus to enable an increasing adoption of accessibility-minded practices. Designing inclusive experiences is a journey that is never finished. It can seem overwhelming, yet a little goes a long way. People with disabilities are underrepresented in almost all facets of society and culture, making them a marginalized minority. When most organizations think of “accessibility” they think of wheelchair ramps and parking spaces. However, digital experiences are just as important as physical. Inclusive digital access is a civil right, just as access to education is a civil right. The state of Iowa has a rich history of progressive civil rights. It has often led the nation in developing inclusive legislation and educational practices. Iowa State University follows in the tradition of being progressive in education, science and technology. With so many technological advances in hardware and software we should be further along in terms of accessible and inclusive design. The Digital Access Roadmap stands as the formalization of those efforts in pursuit of campus wide collaboration and the establishment of institutional best practices. The roadmap promotes our vision and provides a guide to outcomes, activities, timelines, and roles university community members have in providing digital access for all. Digital Accessibility Lab Staff directory Iowa State University 116 Durham 613 Morrill Rd digitalaccess@iastate.edu Microsoft Teams channel for ISU faculty, staff, and students Digital Accessibility Lab 116 Durham 613 Morrill Rd digitalaccess@iastate.edu Social media Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram MS Teams Copyright Information Copyright © Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Legal and Privacy Links Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information