Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information and Resources Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Main Navigation Main Navigation Home About Mission Services News Contact Penn Home Directory Maps Welcome to Business Services! Innovative Services | In the News | Key Priorities Innovative Services As a Division, we are committed to creating a hospitable and customer-friendly campus environment through the delivery of innovative services. We invite you to explore our divisional website and learn more about the diverse portfolio of resources and programs we offer to the Penn community! Learn more about our services: View All Services BSD News Recent Highlights Learn More What links our services? Our diverse portfolio is linked together by common priorities. Throughout our site, these symbols highlight how each of our services reflects these themes: Economic Inclusion Learn More Cost Containment & Revenue Development Learn More Sustainability Learn More Innovation Learn More Learn More About Us The Division of Business Services University of Pennsylvania 3401 Walnut St. Suite 440A Philadelphia, PA 19104 info-bsd@pobox.upenn.edu Hospitality Catering Conference & Hospitality Services University Club Hotels Vending Campus & Community Penn Parking Penn Transit Commuter Services Penn Ice Rink Penn Mail Services Penn Home Ownership Morris Arboretum PennCard Penn Children's Center Living Residential Services Off-Campus Services Penn Dining Procurement Procurement Services Software Licensing Travel Services Print & Interactive Communications Specialized Services Campus Express Penn Branded Merchandise & Licensing E-Cards Campus Stores Penn Bookstore Copyright © 2019 University of Pennsylvania Privacy PolicyDisclaimer Report accessibility issues and get help BSD Help Desk Penn Today A ‘reawakening’ of interest in nature In a Q&A with Penn Today, Morris Arboretum Director Bill Cullina discusses lessons taken from the pandemic, adapting to climate change, and future research. Read More Daily Pennsylvanian A Home Cooked Meal on Campus Quaker Kitchen, Penn's newest dining cafe, opens to rave reviews. Read More Penn Today A Joyous Move-in After a year in which many students were not on campus, Residential Services was excited to get back to the business of Move-In! Read More Daily Pennsylvanian What's New in Penn Dining Whether it's new technology to make dining more convenient, new platforms like La Plancha in Houston Market, or new ways to use swipes, Penn Dining starts the year with plenty of options to enhance the student dining experience. Read More Penn Today Supplier Diversity Forum & Expo Spotlights Intentional Procurement “Can we do more? Must we do more? Yes we can, and yes we will,” said Penn President Amy Gutmann during Wednesday’s Supplier Diversity Forum and Expo. “We have a long way to go to close gaps in wealth and opportunity.” Read More