Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Gasson Circle Home Giving Giving Societies The 1863 Society Gasson Circle The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle Gasson Circle — $10,000 to $24,999 Named for Boston College’s 13th president, Thomas I. Gasson, S.J., the Gasson Circle honors donors who are catalysts for change. When BC outgrew their space in the South End of Boston, then-president Rev. Thomas I. Gasson, S.J., bought 31 acres of the former Lawrence Farm in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, and broke ground in 1909 on a new campus, today fondly known as “the Heights.” Gasson Circle donors aspire to new heights and support BC with an annual gift of $10,000 to $24,999, deepening their philanthropic impact and engagement with BC. Benefits Membership in the Gasson Circle, the fourth donor circle of the 1863 Society, comes with many benefits: Opt-in to receive a copy of the First Year Academic Convocation book (selection will change annually) Opportunity to have your story featured in BC communications Personal University liaison to facilitate your 1863 Society membership Opportunities to participate in BC giveaways Opt-in to receive an e-book by a BC author (selection will change annually) Member discounts for BC Athletics tickets (selection will change annually) Impact updates on how your giving helps thousands of students fulfill their potential Invitations to exclusive events recognizing your leadership support throughout the year Private reception with the President during your Reunion Weekend at BC If you are a BC parent, gifts of this size also qualify you for the Parents Leadership Council (PLC) How Your Donation Makes a Difference Boston College Fund Gasson gifts to the BC Fund make possible a formative, semester-long, interdisciplinary Enduring Questions course as part of the Core curriculum for 19 first-year students. *This unrestricted fund provides flexibility for fund designation to those areas in most need. William J. Flynn Fund Gasson gifts to the Flynn Fund help BC Athletics provide game-day essentials, such as BC’s beloved Baldwin the Bald Eagle mascot! Student Financial Aid Gasson gifts to student financial aid enable BC to award grants and other aid totaling more than $114 million to deserving students, regardless of their economic background. BC Law School Fund Gasson gifts to the Law School Fund help support the BC Innocence Program, a clinic focused on analyzing erroneous convictions and working to remedy or prevent these injustices. “Boston College, and more specifically AHANA, afforded me the opportunity to thrive. I was given the chance to learn from diverse cultures and understand the difference between what's right and what's righteous. This education shaped my life, and I want to ensure AHANA will be there for those who come after me. ” Kevin Smart '99, Member, Board of Trustees, Board of Regents, The 1863 Society ►How to Join Interested in joining or learning more about the Gasson Circle? Fill out our contact form below and a BC representative will contact you within 48 hours. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok