Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Data Science Initiative Home About Academics Research Resources News Events Fair February Data Science Research Seminar Series Faculty for Faculty Research Talks Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars Past Events Site Navigation Home About Executive Committee Faculty Postdocs Staff Campus Advisory Board Affiliated Faculty Jobs @ DSI Academics Master's Degree Apply Curriculum Student Experience Career Outcomes FAQ Doctoral Certificate Fifth-Year Master's Degree Certificate in Data Fluency Data Science Fellows Research DSI-Funded Research Data Science Research @ Brown TRIPODS Programs People Resources Activities & Opportunities Learning Resources Data Science and COVID-19 News Events Fair February Data Science Research Seminar Series Faculty for Faculty Research Talks Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars Past Events Events Jun 8 3:00pm - 5:00pm CDH Pitch Competition Zoom Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of innovation and entrepreneurship. We have identified 8 teams of innovators within the Brown-Lifespan ecosystem to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership. These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity. Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation! CDH Pitch Competition Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Jun 22 All Day Symposium on Statistics and Data Science in HIV ICERM How to register. Please click on the ‘Apply with Cube’ link below under ‘Application Information’. Once you create a new account, please complete your profile and register for the event. On the registration page, you can indicate whether you are applying for funding or need assistance with travel and lodging. It is important to note that you are asked to upload a CV. You can, however, upload a document describing your name and institution. If you are a graduate student, your advisor can upload your letter of recommendation to https://app.icerm.brown.edu/Cube/advisor Conference description. Research in HIV continues to generate highly complex data structures. Examples include genomic sequences (both host and virus); individual medical records, which include such complications as irregular measurement, missing data, and unstructured text fields; medical images; social network data; and aggregated ‘super cohorts’ such as those coordinated by the IeDEA and CNICS consortia. Even the design and analysis of randomized trials require innovative techniques to enable optimal use of data that can be expensive and labor-intensive to collect. This symposium is designed to bring together statistical and data science researchers either working directly in the area of HIV or whose work has direct relevance to problems and data structures encountered in HIV research. We are particularly interested in engaging data science researchers in fields such as computer science, engineering, and applied mathematics, whose work in related areas might lead to innovative new approaches. Participants will gather for focused activities related to dissemination of new methods, formation of new collaborations, extended discussion to identify new challenges, and engagement of junior investigators. Finally, owing to investments by NIH and other funding agencies, the number of HIV-focused statisticians and data scientists from low- and middle-income countries is growing. The symposium also is designed to promote continued engagement between statistical scientists from the ‘global north’ and ‘global south’. Is there funding available? Yes. We have funding available for graduate students, postdocs, and those coming from low and middle income countries. Is there a virtual option? The conference is in-person but we are working to set up a virtual broadcast of the talks. In person applications will be given priority. Who can I contact with questions about Cube? Please email [email protected] Co-sponsored by Providence-Boston Center for AIDS Research and ICERM https://cfar.med.brown.edu/ Symposium on Statistics and Data Science in HIV View full calendar > To get notifications for all our events (and other data-related events and activities), please sign up for our newsletter. Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars: These are lunchtime short talks by experts directly engaged in COVID-related data-driven research activities, with plenty of time for question and answer. Details here. Faculty for Faculty Research Talks: Informal opportunities for faculty to present their data science–related research to other faculty. Our goal is to provide a networking venue that promotes research collaborations between faculty across all disciplines; awareness of the breadth of data science–related research at Brown; and a forum for faculty to share their expertise with one another. Details here. Data Wednesdays: Our weekly seminar, hosted by DSI, CCMB, COBRE, 4-5 pm, at 164 Angell, 3rd floor Data Science, Computing and Visualization Workshops: [On hiatus] Weekly at noon on Fridays; see previous topics. Events Fair February Data Science Research Seminar Series Faculty for Faculty Research Talks Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars Past Events Donate to DSI Inquire about our Master's Program Sign Up for Our Newsletter Data Science Initiative Data Science Initiative Brown University Box 1891 164 Angell Street 3rd Floor Providence, RI 02912-1891 Phone: 401-863-6959 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top