Skip to Content (Press Enter) California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search this site or CSUF general sites Site CSUF Site Menu searchSearch this site CSUF Alumni Engagement Development Services Strategic Communications Government and Community Relations Foundation Selected Quicklinks Federal Relations State Relations and Advocacy Community Relations search Search this site University Advancement Alumni Engagement Development Services Strategic Communications Government and Community Relations Foundation University Advancement Alumni Engagement Development Services Strategic Communications Government and Community Relations Foundation UA Home Government and Community Relations Selected Quicklinks Federal Relations State Relations and Advocacy Community Relations Government and Community Relations The Government and Community Relations department initiates and maintains Cal State Fullerton's connection and relationship between local, state and federal officials and the University. Government and Community Relations — through its offices of community, state and federal relations — advocates for the University and acts as a central point for those interested in developing a relationship with the institution. The office provides periodic updates to legislative delegations on campus programs and funding priorities especially in these difficult budget times. The office works cooperatively with the CSU's offices of advocacy and state and federal relations. This site is maintained by Division of University Advancement. Last Published 9/10/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems (with navigation, content, objects, tables, etc.) you encounter while using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Website accessibility feedback form For more information learn about CSUF's Accessible Technology Initiative (ATI). Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Microsoft Viewers Version_4.0.953.9c This page uses javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.