Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Programming Team News UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest UCF will host and compete against 49 other top student programming teams — including Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Caltech, UCBerkeley and Georgia Tech. UCF’s Programming Team Wins Regionals, Again Earns Berth in 2022 North America Championship A total of seven programming teams from UCF competed in this weekend’s event, all finishing in the top 15. UCF Programming Team Places in Top 20 at World Finals in Moscow Trio of computer science graduates shine at the “Olympic Games” of algorithmic programming. Knights Do That Podcast with Daniel West UCF computer science student Daniel West looks ahead to defending his home turf at the North America championship round of the 2021 International Collegiate Programming Contest. UCF Hosts Virtual Training Camp for North America’s Elite Computing Students The first camp of its kind, the program will help prepare students in the United States and Canada for the annual world competition. UCF Programming Team Places 1st in North America, 10th Worldwide UCF defeated teams from Harvard, MIT and Stanford, among others, to finish first in the U.S. and Canada. UCF Hosts 300 High School Computer Science Competitors The University of Central Florida, home to a consistently top-ranked computer programming team, today plays host to hundreds of the state’s most talented high school… Nation’s Top 10 Again: UCF Programming Team The University of Central Florida’s Computer Programming Team has retained its rank in the nation’s top 10 after competing in an international super-contest known as… Repeat Win: UCF is Southeast Champion of Computer Programming UCF won a regional super-contest of computer programming known as the “Battle of the Brains,” a victory that UCF also claimed in 2013. The victory marks the 33rd… UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida