Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Engineering & Computer Science Main Navigation Departments Centers Current Students Future Students Services & Resources Employment News & Events Giving Contact Us About Meet the Ambassadors K-12 Outreach Join EAN EAN National Network Partners Contact ENGINEERING AMBASSADOR NETWORK The Engineering Ambassadors Network (EAN) is a professional development program that helps CSUF engineering and computer science students develop effective leadership, oral presentation, and networking skills. Our students attend a national training conference to develop communication abilities and use these skills to inspire K-12 students to explore engineering and computer science possibilities! Benefits of Joining $500 Scholarship upon program completion Advance your communication and public presentation skills Develop leadership and soft-skills for work-force preparation Strengthen team building and collaboration skills Develop lifelong friendships Belong to a national network of EAN trained colleagues About the Engineering Ambassadors Network The Engineering Ambassadors Network is a national program that was initiated at Penn State University by Dr. Karen Thole, Department Head of Mechanical Engineering, and Michael Alley, Teaching Professor in the Leonhard Center. The program was launched in 2009 through the support of the National Science Foundation to help undergraduate students develop professional skills and to inspire the next generation of engineers and computer scientists. Over 30 universities in three different countries have adopted the EAN model. The Engineering Ambassador program was launched at CSUF in 2018 by Dr. Sang June Oh, ECS Associate Dean and Mechanical Engineering professor. The program has developed into a vibrant community of highly skilled students who promote engineering and computer science to K-12 students and support a variety of campus and community events. Student Spotlight: Engineering the Future of STEM Communicators This site is maintained by Engineering & Computer Science. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.