By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Campus Highlights Connective Corridor More from this Section Performing Arts Student Centers Hendricks Student-Run Media The Stadium Connective Corridor The Connective Corridor is a civic engagement initiative led by Syracuse University, working with the City of Syracuse and Onondaga County. The Corridor creates a connection between the City and University, making it easier and more feasible for students to access many great downtown activities. Urban planning, art, and architecture are combined with smart growth and sustainability plans in the largest downtown public works project that the city and region has seen in more than 50 years. View the bus schedule Green Streets As of 2015, a new network of “ green streets ” with bike and pedestrian paths link University Hill and downtown business and residential districts. This network has created a more livable, walkable community along a reconstructed two mile urban corridor. Free Public Bus System Syracuse University worked with Centro (Central New York's Regional Transportation) to introduce a free public bus system connecting campus and community venues. The system has grown from 6,000 rides to 200,000 rides annually, and links the City of Syracuse's arts, cultural, and heritage district with campus and community venues. Preserving Art and Architecture More than 70 façade improvements, funded through a grant program, were completed to augment the new streetscape. Many of these were historic preservation projects and business district revitalization initiatives. In addition, an innovative “ Corridor of Light ” now illuminates 23 of the City’s most iconic buildings. The project includes a public corridor that features visual art and installations, interactive spaces, outdoor video, performance art, along with public workshops and lectures. Related Pages Bike and Pedestrian Paths Syracuse is recognized globally as a green leader, and the Connective Corridor’s new green bike lanes are an example of green technologies put into practical use as part of a green street network. Bus Schedules The Connective Corridor Bus is a free loop bus service between University Hill and downtown Syracuse with more than 70 stops. History of the Corridor The City of Syracuse, Syracuse University, and National Grid came together in 2005 to discuss the creation of a brightly illuminated pedestrian and bicycle-friendly path. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy