Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Admissions Honors Programs Honors Contracts Accelerated BS/MS (ABM) Advising Degree Planning Second Major Scholarships Courses & Syllabi Awards Cantor Sect Take Action Student FAQ Cantor Sect Contact Us Home Math Sciences Undergraduate Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Registration and Credit Transfer How do I get a permit to enroll in a MATH Class? Answer: If the section begins with the letter R, then TN eCampus (formerly RODP) has jurisdiction. See instructions for enrolling. Otherwise you discuss this with your advisor. If your advisor agrees that you have satisfied the prerequisites, then your advisor will send an email to Ilham Tayahi, with the following information: your name and Banner Id, U00-----, how and when you satisfied the pre-requisites, and why you need a permit. Only with this information can we make a decision regarding a permit. What does Prerequisite and Test Score Error Mean? Where can I find the prerequisites for a course I want to take? Answer: The course descriptions, along with prerequisites are found in the Undergraduate Catalog. Will you issue a permit for me to register into a closed class? Answer: Probably not. Some classrooms will not safely allow any additional students. Moreover, no permit will be issued without the professor’s permission. If there are extenuating circumstances, after you have obtained written permission from the professor, your advisor should contact a Math advisor with your Banner Id, verifying that you had satisfied the prerequisites, along with the compelling reasons for the permit to be issued. How can I find out if one of my courses will transfer directly as a MATH course at the UofM? Answer: The Transfer Equivalency Table, found on the Admissions site, lists accepted courses. Advising See the Advising Page. Tutoring A free walk-in tutoring service is provided by Educational Support Programming (ESP) in Dull Hall 341. Free online tutoring is also available. Degree Planning Online UMdegree Worksheet is on MyMemphis to help you plan out your semesters. Degree sheets are helpful in planning graduation requirements from the College of Arts and Sciences. Math Major 2015/2016 Course Guide lists the required MATH courses for the various MATH Major Concentrations: Statistics and MATH: Applied Math, General Math, Graduate Study, Teacher, and Actuarial Science. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.