Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Department of Military Leadership About Us Forward Arrow About Us FAQ Back Arrow Back Prospective Cadets Forward Arrow Prospective Cadets Classes Program Requirements Scholarship Information Clubs and Activities Back Arrow Back Current Cadets Forward Arrow Current Cadets Summer Training and Internships Cadet Resources Incentives for Nurses and Doctors Back Arrow Back Alumni Contact Us Forward Arrow Contact Us Prospective Cadet Form Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Department of Military Leadership Summer Training and Internships About Us show submenu for About Us FAQ Prospective Cadets show submenu for Prospective Cadets Classes Program Requirements Scholarship Information Clubs and Activities Current Cadets show submenu for Current Cadets Summer Training and Internships Cadet Resources Incentives for Nurses and Doctors Alumni Contact Us show submenu for Contact Us Prospective Cadet Form Clemson Home Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Departments Department of Military Leadership Current Cadets Current: Summer Training and Internships Summer Training and Internships Army ROTC cadets have the opportunity to participate in several courses and internship opportunities during the summer to further develop their leadership potential. Cadet Leadership Course (CLC) The Cadet Leadership Course (CLC) is now held annually at Fort Knox, Kentucky. The U.S. Army's largest training exercise, CLC is the U.S. Army Cadet Command's capstone training event. The purpose of the course is to train U.S. Army ROTC cadets to Army standards, to develop their leadership skills and to evaluate their officer potential. Most Army Cadets attend CLC between their junior and senior undergraduate years after having contracted to join the Army. Successful completion of CLC is a prerequisite to becoming an Army officer through ROTC. The 29-day course starts with individual training and leads to collective training, building from simple to complex tasks. This building-block approach permits the integration of previously learned skills into follow-on training. This logical, common-sense training sequence is maintained for each training cycle. Every day at CLC is a day of training. CBRN: The Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) Committee trains cadets on CBRN tasks and develops the cadets' confidence in the U.S. Army's protective mask and JSLIST clothing. Cadets learn to correctly wear, operate and have confidence in their CBRN clothing and equipment. The cadets get an appreciation of the leadership challenges and constraints associated with operating in a CBRN environment by participating in a situational training exercise that tests the cadets' CBRN skills in a physically challenging environment (Cobalt Challenge). BRM/LFX: The Basic Rifle Marksmanship / Live Fire (BRM/LF) Committee is tasked with familiarizing cadets with select U.S. weapons, capabilities and employment techniques. Cadets receive training in order to conduct zero/qualification with the M16A2 rifle, gain confidence in his or her assigned weapon and in his or her training by engaging targets on the Down Range feed Back Range and participate in a Hand Grenade Assault Course with practice grenades as part of a buddy team. After a cadet has qualified on his or her M16A2, the cadet will receive additional training in preparation for conducting a cadet-lead cadre supervised Squad Live Fire, engaging targets from a variety of positions in a tactical setting, the culmination of all their BRM training. Each cadet will also receive training and will live fire familiarize with the M249 Squad Automatic Weapon (SAW) and the M240B Machine Gun (MG). Cadets also receive familiarization training with the employment, operational capabilities and effects of an Improvised Explosive Device (IED), Vehicle Borne Improvised Explosive Device (VBIED) and Explosive Formed Projectile (EFP) in order to better prepare cadets to conduct tactical operations. Upon completion of all BRM training, cadets are prepared for future collective training and have confidence in their weapon system. Cultural Awareness: The Cultural Awareness (CA) Committee exposes cadets to cultural factors, ethical dilemmas, politics, religion, economics and their potential impact on military operations and mission accomplishment within the Contemporary Operating Environment (COE). CLC utilizes the Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) common teaching scenario – Caucasus region depicting U.S. forces in support of a friendly nation. Cadets examine and reflect upon the impact cultural awareness has on military operations and gain an understanding that culture matters and that cultural awareness will facilitate mission success. First Aid: The First Aid Committee is tasked with training and testing cadets on selected first aid tasks. By the end of the training, each cadet is capable of applying life-saving first aid techniques to ensure unit member survivability on the modern battlefield. The committee utilizes training aids and resources to teach and test to the combat lifesaver standard the following tasks: evaluate a casualty, airway management, CPR, chest wounds, control bleeding and treat for shock. The cadets also participate in a squad-level situational exercise that incorporates administering first aid in a tactical setting. Cadets walk away from training with the realization that every soldier, regardless of rank, must be able to administer aid to their fellow soldier. Tactical Leader Development: The Tactical Leader Development (TLD) Committee creates a challenging tactical environment over seven days, that provides a unique opportunity founded in the contemporary operating environment (COE) and basic squad and platoon level maneuver doctrine to observe and develop leadership potential. During their training at TLD, cadets are shown what right looks like during the tactical leader training as the cadre mentors them. Cadets successfully demonstrate small unit leadership skills in a training scenario that represents the COE. Mission Command: The Mission Command Committee exposes cadets to modern mission command and training opportunities available in the modern Army. Through leadership discussions and hands-on familiarization, cadets gain an understanding of leadership on the modern battlefield and training simulations that are available to help them prepare for modern battle. Utilizing the mission training complex facility in KY, qualified instructors facilitate cadet participation in a leadership discussion that highlights modern battlefield command and control. All transportation, room and board expenses are paid by the Army. Cadets receive approximately $20/day fewer deductions. For more information on CLC, please visit: https://www.goarmy.com/soldier-life/being-a-soldier/ongoing-training/leadership-training.html Cadet Initial Entry Course (CIET) Cadet Initial Entry Training is the Army's two-year ROTC program entry point. Through the CIET, students without ROTC basic course experience can examine the Army without incurring an obligation and qualify for advanced course entry. The Army observes these students and determines their officer potential in a leadership-oriented, challenging and motivating 28-day training program. The Cadet Initial Entry Training Concept A successful camp begins with the recruitment of quality students who have a desire to learn about ROTC and an Army Officer career. Training during camp educates, challenges, motivates and demonstrates to the student the demands and rewards of being an Army Officer. CIET is the student's and the Army's vehicle for determining future ROTC involvement. The camp philosophy is based on an action-oriented training plan. Emphasis is hands-on, outdoor training with rapid, constructive feedback to the cadet. Above all else, CIET is a leadership experience. The training program is designed to inspire students to become outstanding leaders with a sound understanding of traditional leadership values. At the CIET, students are trained to lead and develop their officer leadership potential. Training at the Cadet Initial Entry Training The CIET course will give you some very special skills while simultaneously presenting you with a combination of mental and physical challenges that are specifically designed to bring out your leadership potential. It's full of adventure, excitement and it's fun. An added benefit is the opportunity it provides to meet many other college students and establish some valuable and potentially lifelong relationships. In many ways, this course will raise your leadership stock in an amazingly short period of time (28 days). The 28-day CIET course is conducted during the summer at Fort Knox, Kentucky, and it consists of three phases — the "Future Leader" phase, "Bold Leader" phase and "Discover Gold" phase. During the "Future Leader" phase you'll rappel, participate in a leadership reaction course, learn water survival and stream crossing techniques, first aid, weapons and how to navigate on land using a map and compass during the day and night. You'll be challenged physically throughout this entire phrase. You'll learn when to lead and when and how to follow. During phase two, the "Bold Leader" phase, we'll teach you small unit tactics. We'll put you through a self-confidence-building obstacle course, rock climbing, paintball and the Tarzan assault course. With your newly established confidence in water survival, you'll participate in small boat or raft operations. Additionally, this phase highlights the importance of teamwork and a balanced lifestyle of work and recreation. Finally, during the "Discover Gold" phase you'll participate in some very entertaining social events, a family day and the culmination of the course — the graduation ceremony. Visit the CIET website: https://www.goarmy.com/rotc/ways-to-attend.html You may attend cadet initial entry training if you: Have not completed all four semesters of Military Science I and II. Are medically qualified to attend. Are transferring from a school that did not have ROTC. Are a junior or community college transfer entering an ROTC school and have no prior active or reserve component military experience. Are a graduate student, starting a two-year program. Are a high-school graduate entering a military junior college. Eligibility Students with prior military service, or who have taken Junior ROTC, may be given credit for basic course completion and would not be required to attend CIET. Travel expenses are covered and students are paid a modest amount for their time at CIET. Scholarship Opportunities Students who attend CIET may compete for a two-year Army ROTC scholarship while at camp. These merit scholarships are awarded to the most qualified students who apply. Drill Cadet Leader Training (DCLT) DCLT is similar to CTLT. The unit will be either Basic Combat Training or Advanced Individual Training. The assignment affords cadets the opportunity to enhance their small unit leadership skills in a number of different areas. Under the supervision of a senior NCO/Drill Sergeant, the cadet will learn and practice the duties of a mid-grade non-commissioned officer. The cadet will train new soldiers in skills such as drill and ceremonies, physical readiness training and basic rifle marksmanship. Cadets will have the opportunity to cultivate and practice instructional techniques and improve performance-counseling skills. This assignment is very challenging with a large demand placed on the cadet's time, self-discipline and physical endurance. Long hours and hard work can be expected. The training experience of drill cadet leader training will reward cadets throughout their military careers. For more information about DCLT, visit https://www.cadetcommand.army.mil/clt.aspx#DCLT. Cadet Troop Leader Training (CTLT) The Cadet Troop Leader Training (CTLT) provides cadets the opportunity to experience leadership in Army table of organization and equipment (TO&E) units over a three to four week period. Cadets serve in lieutenant-level leadership positions in Active Duty units. Platoon Leader positions have a three to four-week duration depending on the hosting unit and location. Assignments include units that are located CONUS and OCONUS. Cadets are assigned a unit mentor and are provided on-post lodging and meals via a dining facility. This program is exclusively designed for MS III Cadets before and after completion of the Leader Development and Assessment Course (LDAC). There are two leadership opportunities within the Cadet Troop Leader Training (CTLT) platoon leader. The CTLT Platoon Leader Program consists of platoon leader positions identified by active Army, Army Reserve and National Guard units both CONUS and OCONUS. Non-SMP MSL III cadets are assigned to the CTLT Platoon Leader Program by their PMS and must successfully complete LDAC before proceeding to their assigned position. Cadets are assigned for a period of three-weeks with CONUS units and four-weeks with OCONUS units. Positions are allocated to each brigade via CCIMS. Brigades allocate positions to battalions. Cadets receive an Officer Evaluation Report upon completing the platoon leader assignment. There is no application for CTLT platoon leader positions. Cadets must contact their professor of military science or training officer at the beginning of their junior year to coordinate a CTLT platoon leader position for the summer following their junior year. Once assigned, cadets must sign a CTLT acceptance statement and carry it to LDAC. The cadet then must complete LDAC prior to attending CTLT per their CTLT acceptance statement. This is the best way to try out a branch before selecting your branch assignment in the fall of your senior year. Cadets can go to the following installations and apply for the following branches: Fort Bliss, Texas: AD, OD Fort Benning, Georgia: AR, EN, FA, IN, OD, QM, TC Fort Drum, New York: AV, EN, FA, IN, OD, QM, SC, TC Fort Eustis, Virginia: AG, AV, MP, TC Fort Gordon, Georgia: OD Fort Hood, Texas: AG, AD, AR, AV, CM, EN, FA, FI, IN, MS, MI, MP, OD, QM, SC, TC Fort Knox, Kentucky: AR, FI, MP, TC Fort Polk, Louisiana: AG, AR, AV, EN, FA, FI, IN, MS, OD, QM, TC Fort Riley, Kansas: AR, AV, EN, FA, IN, MI, MP, QM, SC, TC Fort Rucker, Alabama: OD Fort Sill, Oklahoma: FA Fort Stewart & Hunter AAF, Georgia: AG, ADA, AR, AV, EN, FA, FI, IN, MS, MP, QM, SC, TC, OD Germany: AD, AR, AV, EN, FA, IN, MI, MP, MS, OD, QM, SC, TC Italy: AD, EN, FA, IN, MP, QM, TC Korea: AG, ADA, AR, AV, CM, EN, FA, FI, IN, MP, MS, OD, QM, SC, TC For more information about CTLT, visit https://www.cadetcommand.army.mil/clt.aspx#CTLT. Cadet Practical Field Training (CPFT) CPFT is a summer training program that affords highly qualified and motivated cadets to attend some of the Army's specialty schools during the summer. The Cadet Command goal for attendance to any CPFT school is 75 percent ML II and 25 percent ML III. ML I's can attend, but require a waiver from the PMS approved by the brigade commander. The various specialty schools are listed below: Airborne School: There is nothing like leaping from an aircraft in flight with 600 of your closest buddies. Airborne School is a three-week course held at Fort Benning, Georgia. You will learn how to successfully parachute from various Army and Air Force aircraft. At the end of the course, you make five static-line jumps onto Fryar Drop Zone and earn the coveted parachutist badge. Airborne! Air Assault School: This school combines the utility of rappelling with the excitement of riding in helicopters. Also, students learn how to hook objects like LMTV (Light Medium Tactical Vehicle) and Humvee (HMMWV-High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle) underneath hovering helicopters. Air assault is as mentally challenging as it is physically demanding. It requires the student to be strong in both mind and body before attending. The reward for 10 days of hard work is the coveted air assault badge. Mountain Warfare Training: This school is not for the faint of heart. Mountain warfare is a two-week school taught at Ethan Allen Firing Range in Jericho, Vermont. The course covers rappelling, rock climbing, mountain survival, land navigation, first aid and knots. The course is physically and mentally demanding, and you should definitely train up for it. Northern Warfare Cadet Orientation Course: Spend part of your summer climbing mountains and glaciers. This three-week course is held at Fort Greeley, Alaska, and is designed to teach you mountaineering, rock and glacier climbing, knots and cold-weather survival. For more information about CPFT, visit https://www.cadetcommand.army.mil/cpft.aspx. Project GO (Global Officers) Cultural Understanding and Language Proficiency Program (CULP) What is Project GO? Project GO, the "Global Officer" initiative, is 25 universities and Cadet Command's ROTC programs working together to develop future military officers who possess the cross-cultural communication skills required for effective leadership in the 21st-century operational environment. The U.S. military needs officers who know critical languages and understand other cultures. Some Project GO benefits include Language bonuses, stipends, incentive pay, fully funded study abroad, unique career and leadership opportunities and life-changing experiences! Project GO at a glance: Language study scholarships Fully-funded study abroad No additional service commitment Intensive summer and some academic-year programs Project GO supports the study of: Arabic Chinese Hindi/Urdu Korean Persian (Dari, Farsi, Tajik) Russian Tatar Turkish Swahili Uzbek Army ROTC Copyright © Clemson University Army ROTC | Johnstone Hall, Box 341351, Clemson, S.C. 29634 864-656-3107 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson