Skip to main content UTS: Promo Links COVID-19 Updates Get Involved Search terms Search icon University of Texas System Toggle navigation Primary Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices Breadcrumbs Home Page title News Center Main page content May 2nd, 2022 UT System Regents to meet May 4-5 The University of Texas System Board of Regents will meet Wednesday and Thursday, May 4-5, 2022. Read the full release about UT System Regents to meet May 4-5 Apr 19th, 2022 UT System, U.S. Army Futures Command announce partnership to accelerate innovation in trauma care The University of Texas System and the United States Army Futures Command (AFC) have formed an official educational and cooperative research partnership to advance medical science and technology to save lives both on and off the battlefield. Since last year, leaders from the UT System, AFC, U.S. Army Medical Research Command and U.S. Army Institute of Surgical Research (USAISR) have been exploring how to work together to solve some of the most critical issues affecting soldiers injured in combat. Read the full release about UT System, U.S. Army Futures Command announce partnership to accelerate innovation in trauma care Apr 13th, 2022 UT System’s David Lakey appointed to national commission to improve U.S. public health system Dr. David Lakey, M.D., The University of Texas System’s chief medical officer and vice chancellor for health affairs, has been appointed to a new non-partisan commission charged with reimagining a stronger health care system at every level of government. Read the full release about UT System’s David Lakey appointed to national commission to improve U.S. public health system Mar 18th, 2022 UT System Regents to meet March 21 The University of Texas System Board of Regents will hold a special called meeting at 11 a.m. Monday, March 21, 2022, via conference call. Read the full release about UT System Regents to meet March 21 Visit the News Archive to search for news by date. News CSE Search Box Search terms Search Primary links News Archive UT System Facts and Figures Contact UT System News Contact Media Relations Karen Adler kadler@utsystem.edu Office: 512-499-4360 Cell: 210-912-8055 If you’d like to receive UT System News, please email utsystemnews@utsystem.edu Latest Tweets Tweets by @utsystem UT System Links and Contact Information Academic Institutions UT Arlington UT Austin UT Dallas UT El Paso UT Permian Basin UT Rio Grande Valley UT San Antonio UT Tyler Health Institutions UT Southwestern UTMB Galveston UTHealth UT Health San Antonio UT MD Anderson UT System About SmartBook Office of the Chancellor Board of Regents Administration Offices Directory UT4U Outlook Web Access Info Center COVID-19 Site Policy Library Regents' Rules & Regulations Reports to the State Audit Reports Privacy Statement Linking Notice Copyright Accessibility Open Records Resources Careers Document Library seekUT UT System Dashboard Contact UT System State Links State of Texas Fraud Reporting Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Statewide Search University of Texas System New footer logo © 2022 The University of Texas System. 210 West 7th Street, Austin, Texas 78701-2982. (512) 499-4200 The University of Texas System Menu × Primary Mobile Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices