COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Policies and Procedures Search Search Policy Effective: February 25, 1999Revised: July 17, 2019 Purpose To authorize and designate an operational policy and procedures manual for the University; to define policy initiating authorities; and to develop a standard policy format, review, approval and dissemination process. Policy All policies and procedures are under the authority of the President. In those instances where policies and procedures published in university or college documents differ from those stated in The Wichita State University Policy and Procedures Manual, The Wichita State University Policy and Procedures Manual will take precedence. The Wichita State University Policy and Procedures Manual is subject to applicable federal and state laws and regulations and the Kansas Board of Regents Policy Manual and the policies and procedures are intended to be consistent with them. Definitions Constituent senates (CS): Faculty (FS) Unclassified Professional (UP) University Support Staff (USS) Student Government Association (SGA) Initiating authority (IA): The President a divisional leader or a designee Administrative Procedures The following procedures should be followed to propose a new policy or revise an existing policy: Any employee wanting to draft or revise a policy may request their assigned senator or senate to contact an Initiating authority (IA) to review the proposed draft or revisions. IA may draft or propose revisions to policy. IA shall seek input from persons/groups that have any accountability for the policy and the General Counsel (GC) will identify someone from the GC office to be an available resource during the development of the policy draft or revision. GC will ensure all applicable federal or state laws, rules, regulations, etc. are followed and cited. IA sends proposed policy and deadline for review to appropriate CS. If review is not being sought, the proposed policy is sent for advisement purposes. IA reviews all input. IA sends proposed policy to GC for final review. GC sends proposed policy to President executive team (PET) for review. If changes are needed, GC will work with IA. PET makes final determination. If IA is updating administrative procedures, the proposed administrative procedures shall be sent to GC for review and then to PET for consideration. If approved, the President’s Office notifies Media Resources Center to post in the Policy and Procedures Manual and Strategic Communications to advise the university. Standard Policy and Procedure Format: Policy title Initiating authority Person/Groups involved in review Purpose statement Policy statement Definitions Administrative procedures Any related policies, federal, state laws, rules and regulations should be cited at the end of the proposed policy Wichita State University Policies And Procedures Main What's New Chapter 1 - University Structure Chapter 2 - Academic Policies Chapter 3 - General Employment Policies Chapter 4 - Faculty Policies Chapter 5 - Time, Pay, and Leave Chapter 6 - Unclassified Professional Employee Policies Chapter 7 - University Support Staff Policies Chapter 8 - Student Policies And Procedures Chapter 9 - Research And Sponsored Programs Chapter 10 - Environmental Health And Safety Chapter 11 - Facilities Chapter 12 - Budget Chapter 13 - Financial Operations Chapter 14 - Purchasing Chapter 15 - Central Services Chapter 16 - Physical Plant (Vacated) Chapter 17 - Rhatigan Student Center (Vacated) Chapter 18 - University Police Department Chapter 19 - Technology Chapter 20 - Miscellaneous Policies Chapter 21 - Emergency and Temporary Policies Policies And Procedures Manual - Policy 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©