Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index IT Technology Support Menu Search TTU Technology Support Computing Labs Printing in the ATLC WEPA@Tech WEPA™ Printing Now Available in Additional Locations Wireless Everywhere Print Anywhere, is a cloud printing environment that is available across a network of touch-screen printing kiosks. This program brings the latest innovations in distributed printing services to the TTU campus: Multiple kiosks are available across campus to allow students to print directly from the ATLC lab computers, Library computers, personal laptops or desktops, and USB flash drives. Black and white laser printing is available at all WEPA™ kiosks. Customers can install WEPA™ print drivers on personal systems and choose to print their jobs to the cloud then go to the nearest kiosk to print the submitted documents. You can also upload documents to the print cloud from anywhere via the WEPA™ website. Once the document is in the cloud, simply go to any WEPA™ kiosk and print. Multiple payment options are available, including the Texas Tech University RaiderCard system, WEPA™ account, and WEPA™ print cards. LocationsAbout WEPA™Register & PayDevicesUSB DrivesTraining Videos Touch-Free (Or Contactless) WEPA Capability WEPA Printers now allow touch-free (Or contactless) document release. Students, WEPA Express allows you to print easily without touching the print station screen. Using the WEPA Mobile App, you can print files from your phone or from cloud storage sources like Google Drive and OneDrive. Select your files to print and your payment method, and all you have to do is tap your phone or swipe your card to release your documents. It's the fastest and safest way to print! For further information regarding this new capability, please review the following tutorial: https://support.wepanow.com/express/. Locations Multiple WEPA™ kiosks are available across campus: ATLC Main (West Basement of the University Library building) – One WEPA™ kiosk available. Carpenter/Wells LDC – One WEPA™ kiosk available on the 2nd Floor - Room 201. Architecture Building – One WEPA™ kiosk available on the 9th floor in the Architecture Library - Low Profile Kiosk Biology Building – One WEPA™ kiosk available on the 1st floor by the vending machines - Low Profile Kiosk Chemistry Building – One WEPA™ kiosk available on the second floor center wing. - Low Profile Kiosk Chitwood Hall – One WEPA™ kiosk available. Civil Engineering Building – One WEPA™ kiosk available in the basement study room 001 - Low Profile Kiosk College of Education Building – One WEPA™ kiosk available on the 1st Floor SW Corner. Drane Hall – One WEPA™ kiosk is available in the 1st floor lobby by RM 132 English/Philosophy Building – One WEPA™ kiosk is available in Hallway 1H1 Graduate Center – One WEPA™ kiosk is available on the 3rd floor Holden Hall – One WEPA™ kiosk is available in the basement (near room 079). One WEPA™ kiosk is available on the 1st floor (near room 104). - Low Profile Kiosk Human Sciences – One WEPA™ kiosk is available in the 1st floor breezeway - Low Profile Kiosk Kinesiology and Sport Management One WEPA™ kiosk located in Room 173. Law School Library One WEPA™ kiosk located on the 1st floor collaborative Commons area. One WEPA™ kiosk located on the 2nd floor by Lab in room 228. Livermore Center – One WEPA™ kiosk located on the 1st floor. Math Building – One WEPA™ kiosk located on the 1st floor room 1C1 McClellan Hall One WEPA™ kiosk located on the 1st Floor, Room 101: Honors College Lab. Mechanical Engineering – One WEPA™ kiosk available on the 1st floor hallway by room 127 Media & Communications Building – One WEPA™ kiosk available on the 1st Floor Student Lounge. - Low Profile Kiosk One WEPA™ kiosk available on the 2nd Floor Rotunda. One WEPA™ kiosk available in the 3rd Floor Student Lounge. Physics Building – One WEPA™ kiosk available on 1st floor by RM 125 Psychology Building – One WEPA™ kiosk available in the 1st flor lobby Rawls College of Business – One WEPA™ kiosk available on the 1st floor in the west hallway. - Low Profile Kiosk One WEPA™ kiosk available in the basement in the west hallway. Sneed/Gordon/Bledsoe Hall – One WEPA™ kiosk available in Gordon Room 125. Student Union Building – One WEPA™ kiosk available in the ATLC SUB computer lab (West basement, Room 001). Bob L. Herd Department of Petroleum Engineering – One WEPA™ kiosk located on the 2nd floor. University Library – Nine WEPA™ kiosks located on the 1st floor. - Three of the Nine are Low Profile Kiosks One WEPA™ kiosk located on the 2nd floor. One WEPA™ kiosk located on the Mezzanine. One WEPA™ kiosk located on the East Basement. About WEPA™ What is WEPA™? Pronounced wee-pah, WEPA™ is an acronym for "Wireless Everywhere Print Anywhere." WEPA™ is a breakthrough in Wireless Printing Technology. WEPA™ uses "cloud computing" to upload documents and send them via the web to WEPA™ "touch-screen" kiosks where students can then print their documents. Why was WEPA™ developed? WEPA™ is a printing service that was developed to meet the needs of schools and students by providing a user-friendly service and convenience that keeps students from being confined to a lab or library – the typical places that printers are found. WEPA™ kiosks can be placed anywhere (labs, libraries, dorms, cafeterias, etc.) to print documents and serve the printing needs of students. How does it work? Once registered, a student can upload a document from anywhere that internet service is provided. Then, go to the nearest WEPA™ kiosk and simply login, select method of payment, and print their document. Note: There must be an internet connection to upload documents to WEPA™. What documents can I print? You can upload and Print any document to WEPA™ such as PowerPoint presentations, Excel spreadsheets, Word documents, Text files, MAC files, or PDF files. You can also print image files from a USB drive. Registering with WEPA™ WEPA™ registration is tied to your Texas Tech eRaider credentials, and in most cases registration is automatic. To manually register, you will need to visit the WEPA™ website to complete the registration. Registration requires a TTU email address. For TTU guests who do not have a TTU email address, a WEPA™ account can be created by visiting wepanow.com. Paying for your WEPA™ Printing Texas Tech University RaiderCard: You may pay for your print at the WEPA™ kiosk at the time of printing using your RaiderCard (listed as Campus Card on the kiosk). Students can deposit funds via the TTU ID Office or through the University ID/RaiderCard website. WEPA™ Funds: You may access funds deposited on wepanow.com by using either a job release code or your TTU RaiderCard at a WEPA™ kiosk. To check your balance or add more funds, visit wepanow.com. Pricing Print Type WEPA™ Charge Black & White, Single-Sided $0.10 Black & White, Two-Sided $0.18 Color, Single-Sided $0.40 Color, Two-Sided $0.50 Device Usage You can print from mobile phones, laptops, desktops, or tablets, as long as you have internet access and the proper drivers installed on your device. After you've registered, drivers for PC and Mac are available on the WEPA™ website members area. Several training videos are available to assist with using WEPA™. Can I use a "SmartPhone" to send documents to the WEPA™? Yes. WEPA has released an Apple iOS app and Android app for mobile devices. Install the app for free from your mobile device by searching for the keyword "WEPA Print" from Google play or the app store. How do I print from my iOS device? To print from an iOS device, you will need to download the WEPA Print app for iPhone or iPad. More information is available on the WEPA™ website. Additionally, owners of an iPad2®, iPhone®, or iTouch® (3rd generation) can now print without installing any software or drivers and get the convenience of WĒPA's network of printing stations. All you need is Internet access and you can use SkyPrint™ to send your documents to the nearest WEPA™ kiosk. How do I print from my Android device? To print from an Android device, you will need to download the WEPA Print app. More information is available on the WEPA™ website. Can I print from a USB drive? Yes. More information » Print from your USB Jump-drive at any WEPA™ kiosk fast: Once at the WEPA™ kiosk, from the "Welcome" screen select "Print From USB" Insert your USB Jump-drive Select the file(s) you would like to print Select your method of payment Print your documents! Training Videos Print from wepanow.com Deposit funds into your WEPA account An introduction to WEPA printing How to upload prints from Cloud services Print from a USB Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents IT Technology Support Like IT Technology Support on FacebookLike IT Technology Support on Facebook Follow IT Technology Support on twitterFollow IT Technology Support on twitter Address Box 42042, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.1650 Email itteamweb@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 18, 2022 10:09 AM IT Technology Support About ITTS IT Technology Support About ITTS Back Strategic Plan Staff Listing Job Opportunities Feedback All Services Computing Labs IT Technology Support Computing Labs Back Computing Lab Locations Advanced Technology Learning Center (ATLC) IT Technology Support Computing Labs Advanced Technology Learning Center (ATLC) Back ATLC Hours ATLC Home Reserve a Lab Printing in the ATLC ATLC Policies Accessible Computing Lab Software IT Technology Support Computing Labs Lab Software Back Find a Lab by Software Lab Software Request ShortCourses & Training Software Web Development Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index