Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Academic planning Our general advisers can help you plan and shape your undergraduate experience at the UW. Your adviser can help you with tasks such as choosing a major, planning course schedules, and help you to better clarify your academic and personal goals. In addition to meeting with your adviser you can use the tools provided below to help you plan your UW degree. GPA Calculator Use the tools below to explore the relationship between the number of credits you have earned, the grades you have received for those credits, and how they affect your grade point average (GPA) now and in the future. GPA Calculator: General Estimate GPA Calculator: Projection Tool MyPlan Use MyPlan to run degree audits, plan your courses, explore majors, and register for courses. List of Majors Explore the majors offered at University of Washington by browsing our list of majors or looking at our majors by topic. Tips for Choosing your Major and/or Courses Get tips on how to make an informed choice of major on our choosing your major page. Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA