Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences Menu Search for: Welcome Who We Are Faculty Researchers Staff Administrative Staff Research Staff Prospective Students Quick Facts Doctoral Program Master’s Programs Concentrations Catalog Current Students Connect with Students Courses Fall 1 2021 courses Fall 2 2021 courses Spring 1 2022 courses Spring 2 2022 courses Curriculum Guides Concentrations Student Digests Conference Travel Awards Programs & Centers Doctoral Program Masters Programs Research Centers Training Programs Fellowships Events News E-Newsletters Faculty Openings Contact Us Make a Gift to SBS Mission The mission of the Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences at the Harvard T.H. School of Public Health is to understand and intervene on the social determinants of health and health equity across the life-course. This mission is achieved through research to identify the social and behavioral determinants of health, development and evaluation of interventions and policies leading to the improvement of population health, and the preparation of professionals and researchers who will fill leadership positions in advocacy and public service. The department’s educational mission is to train both scholars and practitioners: scholars whose research will illuminate basic social determinants of health and who will identify and test innovative social policy and service interventions; practitioners who are skilled in designing, implementing, and evaluating health-enhancing interventions in action settings. Quick Facts 23 Primary Faculty | 24 Secondary/Adjunct Faculty 45 Researchers | 34 Staff Members 37 Doctoral students | 80 MPH students | 1 SM student Research Areas Social Determinants | Interventions & Health Communications | Human Development & Maternal Child Health Why Harvard Chan SBS? From current students and alumni: “Diverse faculty interests, social justice oriented classes, and peers with a diversity of perspectives and life experiences.” “Harvard Chan’s Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences allows students to learn how rigorous public health is essential to yielding health equity for all from experts that are leading the field internationally.” “As an alumnus, I’ve found that the opportunities available to learn from a wide range of professors who are experts in their fields have helped me significantly in my subsequent public health career.” “At times of global health crisis, more than ever before we need social and behavioral sciences dialoguing with health sciences.” Learn more about Harvard Chan SBS Who We Are Prospective Students Current Students Courses Research Centers Events News Contact Us News Memories of Malavika Subramanyam We are deeply saddened to report the unexpected passing of our colleague and alumna of the Department, Malavika Subramanyam. The Fierce Urgency Of Now Read our latest newsletter featuring a message from the Chair, David Williams, and more! Uncovering the health effects of the Great Migration Cecilia Vu, PhD ’22, uses her quantitative skills to explore the health of African Americans who left the South during the 20th century. Remembering Henry Wechsler Dr. Henry Wechsler, an important and valued SBS member and Harvard Chan faculty for 40 years, passed away in November 2021. Community Service Spotlight | Jen Cruz, PhD ’25 Jen Cruz speaks about her community service experience working with the Allston Brighton Health Collaborative and more! Faculty Spotlight | Christy Denckla Christy Denckla joined the SBS Department in July 2021 as an Assistant Professor and a licensed clinical psychologist. Contact Us 677 Huntington Avenue, Kresge Building Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-1135 sbs@hsph.harvard.edu News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College