Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Science Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Research People News & Events Outreach About Us Clemson University Planetarium The Physics and Astronomy Department hosts a digital planetarium located in room 112 Kinard Laboratory of Physics. The planetarium is equipped with a highly advanced, full dome digital theater system, the Digistar 7. The new theater system, installed in 2022, has redefined what's possible in a digital planetarium with its advanced user interface, enhanced real-time rendering capabilities, and 4K full dome video playback. With Digistar 7, the planetarium operators have a wide range of storytelling tools available to customize presentations for any audience. Normal operations began circa September 1961 and since that time, operators have entertained more than 6000 visiting groups. Topics covered during a typical presentation can be found on the show topics page. The computer interface allows the operator to project a large number of astronomical objects on the dome with ease. Upon a visitor’s request, an operator can fly the audience through Saturn's rings, take them to see other stars in the Milky Way Galaxy up close, or fly to other galaxies or clusters in the distant universe. Additionally, the planetarium can be used to teach audiences about what we see in the night sky, such as the planets and different constellations that can be seen throughout the year from different locations. The planetarium is presently being operated on a volunteer basis. Both faculty members and graduate students are involved in the production of shows. During the academic year, public shows are held on a regular basis, usually twice a month. Groups may also schedule a private show. For more information, please see our Planetarium Scheduling page. Note: The Planetarium seats up to 38 visitors and can accommodate 2–3 wheelchairs. Astronomy and Astrophysics Planetarium History Show Topics Planetarium Scheduling LG: Astrophysics Seminar Photo Archive SARA Webnucleo Nuclear Reaction Network Tools Atmospheric and Space Physics Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Biophysics Condensed Matter Physics Graduate Student Research Copyright © 2019 Clemson University Department of Physics & Astronomy | 118 Kinard Laboratory, Clemson, S.C. 29634-0978 864-656-3416 | Email Us