Skip to Main Content Brown University American Studies Secondary Navigation Navigation Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About People Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Governance American Studies Concentration Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Courses Ethnic Studies Courses Concentration Requirements Honors Program Public Humanities Contact Search American Studies American Studies at Brown University Renowned for our transnational approach, innovative research on race and ethnicity and critically and publicly engaged scholarship and courses, the American Studies department at Brown University maintains a broad and comprehensive strength across all fields and specializations. American Studies at Brown University Renowned for our transnational approach, innovative research on race and ethnicity and critically and publicly engaged scholarship and courses, the American Studies department at Brown University maintains a broad and comprehensive strength across all fields and specializations. Established in 1945 as a doctoral program in “American Civilization," we are the oldest interdisciplinary academic unit at Brown and the third oldest American Studies program in the country. We now offer two undergraduate concentrations and three graduate degrees, working principally in three areas: American Studies, Ethnic Studies, and Public Humanities. American Studies We offer three distinct undergraduate and graduate degrees in American Studies marked by the continuing interest of our faculty and students in public humanities and public policy, digital scholarship, the study of race and ethnicity, popular culture, and new avenues in transnational research, exploring the role of the United States in the world and the importance of the world in the United States. Undergraduate Study American Studies is an interdisciplinary concentration that is innovative and creative, offering new answers to complex questions about American society, cultures, and experiences. Master's Program The American Studies M.A. program is cohort-centered and community-based. Ph.D. Program The primary goal of the Ph.D. program in American Studies is to train students to become knowledgeable, engaged, and productive scholars and public humanists. Upcoming Events Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About People Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Governance American Studies Concentration Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Courses Ethnic Studies Courses Concentration Requirements Honors Program Public Humanities Contact Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search American Studies at Brown University Open details for American Studies at Brown University Bookmark this Page