Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office of Student Accountability For Students For Faculty For Parents Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Code of Rights and Responsibilities Learn what your rights and responsibilities are a UofM student. Code of Student Rights & Responsibilities Valuable information to guide you as a student at UofM. Report A Concern/Violation Centralized clearinghouse for reporting, violations, complaints, grievances etc. Hearing Information Learn about our Hearing Process. PreviousNext Take Action Reporting university concerns or complainants Crisis Resources OSA Quick Links Contact Us Home Office of Student Accountability Welcome to Student Accountability! Special Statement Regarding Health Considerations For your safety and the safety of our staff, disciplinary meetings will be conducted online until further notice. Your notice letter will include information for the link to meet virtually with a Hearing Officer. If you have any questions or concerns, don't hesitate to email or call us at 901.678.2298. Read more about these modifications here. Notice of new Student Code effective October 18th The Office of Student Accountability will implement a new rule titled “Student Code of Rights and Responsibilities” beginning on October 18, 2021. The previous Code will remain archived here and utilized for any incidents occurring prior to October 18, 2021. Mission The Office of Student Accountability at the University of Memphis advocates for student rights and promotes academic and personal success. Guiding Principles Maintain an environment which is conducive to academic success; Promote a safe and secure campus by protecting the rights of all members of the University of Memphis community; Encourage students to assume self and social responsibility; Provide opportunities for individual growth and development; Enhance student decision making and conflict resolution skills; Advance the development of student ethical values. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/17/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.