Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Cashier's Office Student Payment Information Cashier's Office Student Payment Information Payment for student account charges is accepted by check (drawn on a U.S. bank account), ACH (e-check drawn on a U.S. bank account), domestic wire, or Flywire for international payments. Brown University does not accept credit card payments for student account charges. Payment by any of the mentioned methods is expected by the established deadlines to avoid the assessment of a late payment charge. Brown University will only accept payments to cover educational expenses that appear on the student account. Brown reserves the right to return any overpayments directly to the originating bank or the student/payer may opt to keep the credit on the account to cover future charges. Payment Options Electronic ACH Payment - Students and their Authorized Users can access the E-Bill & Payment system at http://payment.brown.edu to make online ACH payments via a U.S. personal checking or savings account. Electronic ACH payments will post to the student’s account immediately and may take up to 48 business hours to post against the payer's bank account. Mail - Payment by check, money order or certified check must be made payable to Brown University and sent to Brown University Cashier's Office at: Brown University Cashier's Office Campus Box 1911 69 Brown Street, 2nd Floor Providence, RI 02912 International Wire Transfer - Flywire is Brown University's preferred method of payment for international student account payments. The University has partnered with Flywire to offer a streamlined and cost saving payment method. With this partnership, students and families are offered favorable foreign exchange rates, the ability to pay in home currency (in most cases) and savings compared to traditional banks. In addition, students/families are able to track payments via Flywire's dashboard and receive notification via email (and/or text) when the payment is received by Brown University. Visit Brown.flywire.com to make an international student account payment. Domestic Wire Transfer - Payment may be made via wire transfer with the following information: Bank Name: Bank of America 185 Asylum Street, Hartford, CT 06103 ABA Routing #: 026009593 (for domestic wire transfers) SWIFT #: BOFAUS3N (for international wire transfers) Account Name: Brown University Account #: Contact Cashier's Office at 401-863-1280 for account number Special Instructions: Include Banner ID and Student Name in wire information to ensure proper credit of funds Installment Payment Plan - The Installment Payment Plan (IPP) enables Undergraduate, Graduate, Medical students, and their families to make interest-free monthly installments to cover each semester’s tuition, housing, meals and required fees. Please note that bookstore and other charges are not calculated into the plan and must be paid separately. Visit the Bursar Office website for more information. Third-party Payment - Third-party payment may be received from a domestic or foreign company, corporation, state or government agency that has been granted special billing arrangements to cover tuition and other fees for students that they sponsor. Third-party payments should have a letter from the sponsor including the student name, student Banner ID number and semester to which the funds should apply. Payments must be made in USD and payable to Brown University. All checks must be mailed to the Cashier's Office at the address above. Financial Aid - The Office of Financial Aid assists undergraduate and graduate students in understanding all aspects of the financial aid application processes for federal, state and institutional need-based grants and loans. The Alpert Medical School (AMS) Office of Financial Aid is dedicated to assisting students who may not have the financial resources to meet the full cost of attending medical school. Returned Payments - Any payment made, even if on a timely basis, that results in being returned for insufficient funds, lack of authorizing signature, etc. will result in the reversal of the payment and a $20 returned payment charge. In addition, a returned check for a student account may result in a late payment charge if no other form of payment is received prior to the payment due date. Payers with two returned ACH payments due to insufficient funds within six months, will be restricted from making electronic payments through payment.brown.edu. Payers enrolled in Brown’s Installment Payment Plan (IPP) with one returned payment due to insufficient funds within the plan period, will be removed from the IPP and will need to make other payment arrangements. Loan payments - Loan payments can be processed by ACH payment method. This options allows you to schedule monthly recurring payments that will remain in effect until the loan is paid in full. Paper billing statements will no longer be sent once you convert to permanent ACH. Loan payments can be processed by using a U.S. personal check or savings account, please include your loan number on the bottom of the check. Please note that a debit card number or corporate account is not acceptable for the purposes of ACH transactions. To schedule or pay a loan payment visit: https://borrower.ecsi.net Home Staff Contact Student Payment Information Departmental Information Print this Page Share this Page Cashier Office Brown University Box 1911 69 Brown Street, 2nd Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1280 Fax 401-863-2793 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Brown Card Financial Services Bursar Office Resources Controller's Office Financial Aid Loan Office