Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Main College College News About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Give Search College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give More Sites Main College College News College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Giving Home About the College College Leadership AAA College Leadership College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us A&S Leadership Leonidas G Bachas Dean, College of Arts and Sciences bachas@miami.edu (305) 284-4021 Log in to view address Leonidas G. Bachas joined the University of Miami as dean of the College of Arts and Sciences in July 2010. A distinguished analytical and biological chemist, Bachas was formerly the Frank J. Derbyshire Professor of Chemistry at the University of Kentucky and chair of its Department of Chemistry. Bachas’s tenure at Kentucky was marked... Read More > Caleb D Everett Professor Senior Associate Dean for Academic Affairs caleb@miami.edu (305) 284-2535 Log in to view address Caleb's research examines language and its interaction with nonlinguistic cognition, culture, and the environment. For more information and a more complete list of Caleb's publications, visit his personal site. Read More > Jennifer L Ferriss-Hill Professor Senior Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs and College Diversity j.ferrisshill@miami.edu (305) 284-4036 Log in to view address Jennifer Ferriss-Hill received her A.B. in Classics summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa from Princeton University (2002) and her Ph.D. in Classical Philology from Harvard University (2008). She joined the University of Miami in 2009 as an Assistant Professor of Classics, was promoted to Associate Professor with tenure in 2015,... Read More > Joshua L Cohn Professor Senior Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Education jcohn@miami.edu (305) 284-7123 Log in to view address My research involves measuring low-temperature electronic, magnetic, and thermal properties of novel materials that manifest interesting physics and show some potential to be useful in future electronic devices. These physical properties measurements, like electrical conductivity, thermal conductivity, and thermoelectricity, involve attaching... Read More > Charles H. Mallery Assoc. Professor Associate Dean for Graduate and Administrative Services cmallery@miami.edu (305) 284-3188 Log in to view address I have served as a technical swim official to the National Governing Body of Swimming in the United States, U.S.A. Swimming and to the NCAA , where I have been the referee for over 25 National Championships, 4 U.S. Olympic Festivals, and 4 Olympic Trials. I Worked as a technical swim official on the pool deck... Read More > Emily K. Long Asst. Dean, Programs Assistant Dean for Student Academic Services ekl48@miami.edu (305) 284-1632 Log in to view address Read More > Maryann Tatum Tobin Assistant Dean for Professional Education and Personalized Learning met@miami.edu (305) 284-3737 Log in to view address Dr. Maryann Tobin is Assistant Dean of Professional Education and Personalized Learning. She earned a Ph.D. in Teaching and Learning with a specialization in Literacy Instruction and a Master of Fine Arts in Communications, both at the University of Miami. An undergraduate alum of the College of Arts & Sciences, Dr. Tobin... Read More > Jeanne Marie Luis Director, Strategic Initiatives jluis@miami.edu (305) 284-2607 Log in to view address Read More > Maggie Pertierra Director, Human Resources - School/ Unit mpertierra@miami.edu (305) 284-6104 Log in to view address Read More > Dawn M Reynolds Sr. Business Officer, Finance and Administration dreynolds@miami.edu (305) 284-4029 Log in to view address Read More > University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College of Arts and Sciences 1252 Memorial Drive Ashe Building - Rm # 227 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305- 284-4117 305- 284-4117 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard WebMail Leave Feedback UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Library Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Contact Us Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices