Close Alert All UW International & English Language Programs students, including fully online students, must provide proof of vaccination against COVID-19 or submit a request for medical or religious exemption. Learn more>> Skip to main content We use cookies to enhance the user experience on our website and deliver our services. We also use cookies to show you relevant advertising. Read the UW Privacy Policy and more about our use of cookies. Accept University of Washington University of Washington Agents About Why Choose Us Locations Instructors Staff Programs University Preparation Graduate School Preparation Program Academic English Program Short Programs Language & Culture STEP Business STEP Science, Technology & Engineering STEP Academic Skills STEP Online STEP Make It! Innovation Design Lab Intensive Faculty Development Program Business Certificates Global Business Certificate Study Abroad at the UW Global Connections Global Electrical & Computer Engineering Customized Programs Online Programs Business English Communication Skills English for Business Networking Minecraft & Storytelling Technology for Good Research Programs Life at the UW Arrival & Orientation Housing Student Activities Seattle & the Pacific Northwest What Our Students Say Student Services Applying for a Visa Registration & Payment Health Insurance & Immunization Immigration & Academic Advising Contact Us UW International & English Language Programs UW International & English Language Programs Menu About Why Choose Us Locations Instructors Staff Programs University Preparation Short Programs Business Certificates Study Abroad at the UW Customized Programs Online Programs Research Programs Life at the UW Arrival & Orientation Housing Student Activities Seattle & the Pacific Northwest What Our Students Say Student Services Applying for a Visa Registration & Payment Health Insurance & Immunization Immigration & Academic Advising Contact Us Home Life at the UW Housing Off-Campus Housing Close Menu Home Housing On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Homestays Short-Term Housing Off-Campus Housing If you prefer to live more independently or have more flexibility with your move-in and move-out dates, off-campus housing may be a good choice for you. Apartments or Shared Homes Apartments are residential units inside a larger building. When you rent an apartment, you generally will have your own kitchen, bedroom, living room and bathroom. A studio apartment is the smallest type of apartment, combining a kitchen, sleeping area and living space into a single room. In a shared home, you rent a single room inside of a larger house or apartment. You may share a bathroom, kitchen and living room with other occupants. You may also have to contribute to household cleaning and other chores. How to Look for Off-Campus Housing The following resources can help you find an apartment or shared housing. This information is provided as a service only; it should not be interpreted as a recommendation or endorsement. Padmapper is a free site that lets you search for housing by location. It compiles rental listings from a large number of different sources. Another free site that lists available housing by neighborhood is Hotpads. The Daily, the UW student newspaper, provides listings of rentals and shared housing near campus. After you arrive in Seattle, you can search for housing in person by walking around the neighborhoods near campus, visiting local real estate offices and checking the bulletin boards at the Husky Union Building (HUB) on campus. Locations The University District is the most popular off-campus neighborhood for students. It is within walking distance of campus and has bus and light rail service to many points in the city and surrounding area. Rents in the U-District (as it is often called) may be higher than in other similar neighborhoods due to its proximity to the UW. Nearby residential neighborhoods with good access to UW main campus and downtown Seattle: Bryant, Ravenna, Roosevelt and Wedgwood Quiet neighborhoods featuring housing of all types, some which may be at prices lower than in the University District Northgate An urban neighborhood north of the UW campus with a large shopping center and a major public transit center Montlake A peaceful community where many students live in shared housing Capitol Hill A vibrant urban neighborhood that offers a strong selection of apartments and shared homes at a range of prices Furniture Apartments and rooms may be furnished or unfurnished. An unfurnished apartment does not include beds, tables, chairs, sofas, lamps or small appliances, but it usually includes major appliances such as a stove, refrigerator and dishwasher. Furnished apartments are the most convenient option, but unfurnished apartments may be less expensive. If needed, you can rent furniture separately through a company like CORT furniture rental. Utilities Utilities include gas, water, electricity, high-speed internet, and recycling and trash removal. Some apartments offer a fixed utility rate included in the rent that covers some or all of the utilities mentioned above. Ask your landlord or apartment manager what utilities are included in the rent. If utilities are not included, you'll pay a separate bill (or bills) for the utilities you use. Ask your landlord or apartment manager how much you can expect to spend on utilities. You may be able to reduce your utilities costs by limiting the amount of resources you use. Here are some ways to spend less on utilities: Turn off lights when you don't need them. Use heat sparingly in the winter. Take shorter showers to use less water. How to Apply The application form and process will vary from property to property. Here’s what you can generally expect: Contact the landlord or property manager to tour the place and learn more. Make sure to see it in-person before you pay any deposits. Fill out an application form and a background check form. You may be asked to find another adult to be your guarantor (co-signer). Pay an application fee or a deposit. Receive an answer in approximately two to 10 business days. Rental Agreements A rental agreement, or lease, is a legal contract that defines the terms of your rental, including the amount of rent, when rent is due, deposits and fees, damage policies, parking, maintenance and more. To avoid problems, make sure you understand the agreement completely before you sign it, and inspect the rental unit for damage before you move in. Talk over everything with your potential landlord. Don't be afraid to ask questions. Avoid Scams IELP students should be wary of housing scams. Most housing scams involve sending cash or wiring funds via Western Union, MoneyGram, money order, cashier's check or through some kind of “guarantee.” If the landlord or apartment manager refuses to meet face to face before asking you for a payment, that’s a sign that something is suspicious. Please use caution. The following practices can help you avoid being scammed: Never wire funds via Western Union, MoneyGram or other wire service. Never give out personal financial information (bank account number, credit card number, eBay/PayPal account information, etc.). Avoid deals involving shipping or escrow services. Don't rent long-term housing without seeing it in person. Don't submit to credit or background checks until you have met the landlord or agent in person. Home Housing On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Homestays Short-Term Housing Estimated Housing Costs* Shared Housing $500–$800 Studio Apartment $800–$1,500 1-Bedroom Apartment $900–$1,800 2-Bedroom Shared Apartment $600– $1,000 3-Bedroom Shared Apartment $950–$1,500 *Per person per month University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Instagram YouTube Title IX Privacy Terms Site Map Brought to you by UW Continuum College © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA <\!-- End Meta Pixel Code --> });