Skip to main content About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Continuing & Professional Education Study Abroad International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education Human Development The Guildhall Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Athletics Mustangs Tickets Recreational Sports Campus Life Research Quick Links Academic Calendar Employment Events Calendar Giving to SMU SMU Store Student Affairs Bush Center Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Administration A nationally ranked comprehensive research university with eight degree-granting schools, SMU is a distinguished center for teaching and research located near the heart of Dallas. SMU's more than 12,000 students benefit from small classes, research opportunities, leadership development, international study and innovative programs. The University is strengthened by its partnership with the Dallas region, a global center of commerce and culture. SMU students, faculty and alumni are changing the world through their chosen fields, civic engagement and service to society. Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Study Abroad Continuing & Professional Education Online Learning International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Teaching and research fuse into breakthrough experiences in one of the brightest academic communities in the world. Our 11:1 student-to-faculty ratio means students build strong relationships with outstanding faculty who champion their ambition and drive, whether it’s for tackling climate change, fighting cancer or pursuing another passion. Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Apply Now Schedule a Visit Athletics SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports SMU offers 17 Division 1 sports programs and more than 30 club and intramural sports. We prepare student-athletes for life by equipping them with the knowledge and skills required to become valuable citizens and leaders in their communities. Research Campus Life Quick Links Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU SMU Store Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Center Student Affairs Virtual Tour SMU is one of the rare universities affiliated with a presidential library. The George W. Bush Presidential Center (left) offers unique learning experiences to SMU students – including free admission to museum exhibits – plus research opportunities for faculty and scholars from around the world. Bush Center Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. ☰ Right to Know and Other Legal Disclosures SMU Right to Know and Other Legal Disclosures Privacy Statement Privacy Statement Southern Methodist University respects your privacy and the privacy and security of the information you provide the University. The University makes every reasonable effort to ensure the confidentiality and security of that information within its system. The University does not intend to sell or disclose to entities outside the University your name, mailing address, telephone number, e-mail address, or other information you provide. The University collects information concerning your Internet connection and general information about your visit to its website to analyze trends, create summary statistics for determining technical design specifications, and monitor system performance. The collection of this information is intended to help the University deliver the best and most secure service possible. This information may only be released if legally mandated by law enforcement investigators, required by court proceedings, or necessary to internal investigations of violations of University rules and regulations. The University will not sell information regarding the behavior, habits, or demographics of those who visit its website. The University does not monitor the contents of e-mail sent to or from its servers. However, electronic logs of who sends and receives e-mail through its servers is maintained for short periods of time to analyze trends, create summary statistics for determining technical design specifications, and monitor system performance. In addition, the University backs up the contents of its servers, including e-mail, each day and archives the backup for a short period of time. The contents of logs and backups may be released only when required for law enforcement investigations, legal proceedings or internal investigations of violations of University rules and regulations. The names and e-mail addresses of SMU students, faculty and staff are available in a searchable index. A member of the University community may have his or her name removed from the e-mail index by contacting the webmaster at webmaster@mail.smu.edu. The University is bound by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) regarding the release of student education records. A guide to understanding FERPA is available in the Dean of Student Life Office. The full text of the University’s policy with regard to FERPA follows this privacy statement. The University does not use "cookies" to gain access to private information about you. However, the University may use cookies to enhance your browsing experience and to help track information you voluntarily provide. If there are any questions or concerns about the University’s online privacy policy, the practices of the University’s website, or use of the website, please contact the Director of E-Marketing by e-mail at e-marketing@smu.edu or through regular mail at: Director of E-Marketing SMU Office of Public Affairs P. O. Box 750177 Dallas, TX 75275 Please visit the following link for the University's policy on Privacy of Education Records: https://www.smu.edu/Policy/1-Institutional-Affairs/1-10-Privacy-of-Education-Records-FERPA Right to Know and Other Legal Disclosures Accreditation FERPA Privacy Statement Right to Know State Authorization Statement of Nondiscrimination Terms of Use for Websites Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share