Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information for: Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Diversity & Inclusion History & Mission Facts & Figures Events News & Announcements Contact Related Links Advising Maps & Directions FAQs Admission Overview How to Apply Why Choose Woods? Tuition & Aid Visit Alumni Tuition Discount Related Links Articulation Agreements Course Schedule & Registration Process Events Facts & Figures Undergraduate Overview Bachelor's Degree Applied Liberal Arts (ALA) Business Communication Corporate Systems Criminal and Social Justice Economics English Concentration (ALA) History Concentration (ALA) Information Systems Interdisciplinary Studies Concentration (ALA) Natural Sciences Philosophy Concentration (ALA) Political Science Concentration (ALA) Psychology Sociology Concentration (ALA) Sustainability Certificate Related Links Advising BC Summer Session Course Schedule & Registration Process Nondegree Students Visiting Students Resources for Current Students Woods Academic Calendar Graduate Overview Master's Programs M.S. in Applied Analytics M.S. in Applied Economics Articulation Agreements MSAE Advisory Board M.S. in Applied Economics & Cybersecurity Policy & Governance Master of Healthcare Administration M.S. in Leadership & Administration M.S. in Sports Administration Certificates Corporate Communications and Marketing Online Certificate in Data Analytics Executive Leadership and Organizational Development Human Resources Management Project Management Cybersecurity Graduate Certificates Cybersecurity Analytics Sports Analytics Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Related Links Academic Policies BC Summer Session Executive Education Nondegree Students Registration Process Student Life Woods Academic Calendar Community Overview Jesuit Values Advising Woods College Graduation Process Living in Boston BC Resources Related Links Campus Life Career Center Events Manresa Experience Veterans Experience Course Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Related Links Academic Calendar Woods Faculty Resources Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Woods College site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Flexible. Rigorous. Relevant. Home Graduate Master's Programs M.S. in Applied Economics Master of Science (M.S.) in Applied Economics Master of Science (M.S.) in Applied Economics Learn how to connect research to real-world trends. Our M.S. in Applied Economics program prepares you to evaluate policies and programs, develop forecasts, better understand consumer behavior, and analyze market efforts, all with an emphasis on ethical decision-making. Apply Inquire Flexible Pursue your master's degree full- or part-time online, on campus during the evening, or in any combination you please. Our program is designed to accommodate students who are working or pursuing internships. Rigorous Our challenging curriculum includes five core requirements that provide a solid foundation in the theoretical and quantitative tools of economic analysis as well as five electives in subjects like big data, health care economics, marketing research, and economic development. Relevant Guided by a faculty of accomplished academics and industry practitioners, you'll learn to analyze data and work with data analysis tools while gaining hands-on experience that will prepare you to hit the ground running upon graduation. Economics for the Real World Play The director of Boston College Woods College of Advancing Studies' M.S. in Applied Economics, Aleksandar (Sasha) Tomic, Ph.D., explains the skills sets the students will learn in the program. At a Glance How many courses? Ten courses—six core courses and four electives in your specialization. Students can complete the degree in as little as 16 months. Flexible Scheduling Study full- or part-time online, on campus during the evening, or in any combination that works for you. How much does it cost? $1,298 per credit Academic Year 2022–2023 tuition rate, the total cost of the M.S. degree is $38,940. What sets us apart? Hands-on experience Play Ivan Industry connections Play Mercedes Career readiness Play Stefano Advisory Board Our board consist of professionals in higher education, banking, technology, and other fields. Solve Work Problems “After just one semester in the MSAE program I have already been able to apply some of the concepts in everyday situations at work to solve problems around pricing and forecasting. Without training in statistical modeling programs like Stata and R that I received in the MSAE program, my solutions to these problems could not have been as accurate or robust.” Michael D. Hanson '18, Manager, New Product Development, Verizon Labs Curriculum 10 Courses 30 Credits Program of Study Print all courses on page Summer 2022 Course Offerings These listings are informational only. For a current listing of M.S. in Applied Economics courses, including closed or canceled courses, please visit the Course Information and Schedule system and use the prefix "ADEC". Learning Outcomes After completing the program, students will... Be able to effectively apply basic economic models to real-world situations—such as analyzing choices made by consumers, investors, firms, and governments—while utilizing macro and microeconomic models to evaluate business, policy, and social issues and decisions. Be able to interpret and analyze macroeconomic data to create informed economic policy and to evaluate the impact of macroeconomic events and forces on their organization. Have an intermediate level, practical knowledge of data analysis and econometrics, and be able to competently use statistical/econometric software packages. Be able to utilize economic models and econometric techniques in the context of economic analysis in order to address practical business or policy issues. Be able to evaluate economic policy proposals with an eye toward its ethical ramifications. Financial Aid We know that a BC education is a worthwhile but significant investment. We're committed to helping you affordably achieve your educational goals while treating each student and their family equitably. Financial aid and payment plans may be available for students taking a minimum of six credits across a semester. Graduate Student Aid Our Faculty View More View Less Skills in Demand $104,924 Average starting salary for an Economist Source: Glassdoor.com, Obtained June 2018 Where do our students and graduates work? Technology Consultant Associate, PWC Consultant, SDG Group Operations Systems Engineer, Barbaricum (Germany) Research associate, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond Transfer Pricing Analyst, Ernst and Young Business Intelligence Engineer, Amazon Senior Data Analyst, Commonwealth of Massachusetts Senior Economist, IHS Markit Economist, Bureau of Labor Statistics Data Science Analyst, McKinsey & Company application-info Apply Print Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Deadlines Please Note Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. For exact deadlines, see below. Application & Deadlines Requirement: Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college/university (minimum GPA 3.0) Prerequisite courses: Principles of Microeconomics, Principles of Macroeconomics, Statistics, Calculus I and II (Calculus II may be taken concurrently at Boston College or elsewhere during your first semester of study.) Application fee $60 (to be paid as part of the online application) Start Your Application Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Entrance Term: Application Due Date: Decision Letter Sent By: Fall Early Deadline: May 1 June 1 Regular Deadline: June 15 (International Students applying for Fall must submit an application by June 15th.) July 15 Rolling admissions after Regular deadline. Applications will be reviewed on a case by case basis. Spring Early Deadline: October 15 (International Students applying for spring must submit an application by October 15th Applications received after October 15th will be considered for the summer semester.) November 15 Preferred Deadline: November 15 December 15 Applications will be accepted after November 15 and reviewed on a case by case basis, pending availability. Students are encouraged to apply after November 15. Summer Early Deadline: March 1 April 1 Regular Deadline: April 1 (International Students applying for summer I must submit an application by March 1st. Summer 2 applicants must submit an application by April 1st.) May 1 Rolling admissions after Regular deadline. Applications will be reviewed on a case by case basis, pending availability. Résumé To be uploaded to your online Application Form Personal Statement To be uploaded to your online Application Form. In 550 - 750 words, describe your academic and professional goals, any experience relevant to this program, and your future plans, expectations, and aspirations. Letters of Recommendation Two letters of recommendation (Letters must be sent directly from recommender either through online application portal or directly to Woods College. We will not accept letters that are not in a sealed envelope mailed directly from recommender or emailed directly from recommender). Please note: Letters of recommendations should be provided by Professional or Academic recommenders. Transcripts Transcripts from each college or university in which you were enrolled are required. Please mail transcripts to: Boston College Woods College of Advancing Studies Admissions Office St. Mary's Hall South 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 If your academic institution provides electronic transcripts please indicate wcasadm@bc.edu as the recipient. Boston College Alumni and Current Students: Your BC transcript must be formally requested from the Office of Student Services and submitted to the Woods College. Woods cannot request or access transcripts independently. Official Transcript Submission for International Applicants. All students who have, or are currently attending, an institution outside of the United States must provide a detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation indicating the conferral of an undergraduate degree that is equivalent to a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution. This evaluation is not just an English translation, but a document provided by an accredited evaluating agency that shows all grades, course titles, credit hours, United States degree equivalency, grade-point average (GPA), and date of degree conferral. This detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation must be submitted to complete the application. Please request a detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation for all international institutions where a degree was conferred from one of the following agencies: Educational Credential Evaluators P.O. Box 514070 Milwaukee, WI 53203-3470 www.ece.org Center for Educational Documentation P.O. Box 170116 Boston, MA 02117 www.cedevaluations.com World Education Services Inc. P.O. Box 5087 Bowling Green Station New York, NY 10274-5087 www.wes.org Applicants whose Native language is not English are required to demonstrate English language proficiency, for required scores, visit our International Student page. International Student page Interview Interview is optional or may be required by program director. Standardized Tests While we do not require standardized test scores, we strongly suggest submitting GRE or GMAT scores as a part of your application, particularly in cases that one or more of the prerequisites is not met. GRE reporting code 7534, or GMAT reporting code 44X-HX-07. For all non-native English speakers the TOEFL (reporting code 3276) or IELTS (if applicable) from within the past two years, is required. Please view the international page for required test scores. If your undergraduate degree was conducted in English, you may be eligible for a TOEFL waiver. Please contact Woods College Admissions if you believe you qualify for a waiver. Questions What are the defining characteristics of your program? Our Master’s Degree in Applied Economics brings together critical skills in practice-oriented data analysis along with a rich curriculum dedicated to ethical sensibilities. Our program seeks to ensure that students have relevant skills for today's (and tomorrow’s) job market. Thus we focus on areas such as public policy legislation, health care, civic agencies, business and banking so that our students will be prepared for careers in a variety of industries. Is the program a STEM Designated Degree Program? The MS in Applied Economics program is proud to be a STEM Designated Degree Program. STEM Designated Degree programs are designated by the Department of Homeland Security. F-1 students can apply for a 24-month OPT Extension. What careers are typically available to graduates of the MS program? Students will be prepared for a variety of careers in fields where there is a demand for analytical precision and significant technical proficiency. These industries include: Educational Services Financial Services Chemical Manufacturing Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services Insurance Carriers and Related Activities Hospitals and Health Care Electrical Equipment, Appliance, and Component Manufacturing Miscellaneous Manufacturing Merchant Wholesalers, Durable Goods Credit Intermediation and Related Activities Social Assistance What is the current job outlook for students with an MS in Applied Economics? Demand for graduates with a master’s degree in applied economics increased from 2010 to 2013 with growth rates over 100 percent in the Northeast (108% growth) and the Greater Boston area (143% growth). Growth rates are expected to continue in this upward trend for the foreseeable future. How many courses are required for this program? 10 courses are normally required (30 credits total) though some students may elect an additional course focused on developing practical skills for the market (practicum or project). We believe this offers our students a distinctive career advantage over similar programs that do not offer an applied focus. What are the requirements for admission? Online application Bachelor’s degree from regionally accredited college/university (minimum GPA 3.0) While we do not require standardized test scores, we strongly suggest submitting GRE or GMAT scores as a part of your application, particularly in cases that one or more of the prerequisites is not met. Personal Statement Two letters of recommendation Résumé Application fee ($60, non-refundable) Interview is optional or may be required by program director. Prerequisite courses: Principles of Microeconomics, Principles of Macroeconomics, Statistics, Calculus I and II (Calculus II may be taken concurrently during your first semester of study) What if my GPA is not a 3.0? Am I still eligible to apply for the program? Yes, you are welcome to apply. We will consider your application and weigh a variety of factors such as industry experience to determine whether we are able to offer you admission. This is one of the cases where we strongly suggest submitting GRE or GMAT scores as a part of your application. For particular applicants, we may be able to grant admission into the program with particular conditions noted (for example, passing the first two courses with a B or better in each during the first semester). Do you offer admission to international applicants? Yes, international applicants are welcome to apply and upon formal admission, are eligible for a student visa. (Please note that TOEFL or IELTS scores are required.) Please note international students pursuing the program with a student visa will need to complete the program in 1.5 years (3 academic semesters). Must both letters of recommendation be from an academic source? No, we prefer that one letter of recommendation be from an academic source, and another from an employer or person in a supervisory capacity who can speak about your interests and experience. Does this program require the GRE? While we do not require standardized test scores, we strongly suggest submitting GRE or GMAT scores as a part of your application, particularly in cases that one or more of the prerequisites is not met. How much does the program cost? Tuition can be found on the tuition and aid webpage. Tuition & Aid Do you offer financial aid? Woods College Graduate Programs offer access to US federal aid. These aid funds are available to US Citizens or Permanent Residents only. International Students are not eligible. Woods College Scholarship funding is not currently available in the Graduate Programs. You are welcome to inquire further with regard to your specific circumstances and needs. If I have not taken particular prerequisite courses can I still apply? Would equivalent work experience qualify instead? If you have not completed the pre-requisites you may still apply. We offer the opportunity for you to complete all your prerequisites within the Woods College. If you complete your prerequisites with a GPA of 3.0 or better, you will be eligible to receive a conditional acceptance. If you have prior work-related experience, we will ask you to provide a demonstration of your level of mastery of applied economics skills. Please contact us for details of this process. Do you offer graduate course credit transfer? We do not accept graduate course credit from other institutions. Can you tell me about your faculty members? Virtually all of our faculty hold doctoral degrees in Economics or Statistics and are accomplished practitioners. Their specializations range from work with the International Monetary Fund, to large consulting firms in the Greater Boston area, to academic departments that shape industry standards. Each faculty member is committed to equipping students with real-world skill sets that are applicable to a variety of workplaces. Is a degree from the Woods College comparable to other Boston College degrees? Once you have completed your degree requirements, your official student record at BC will reflect the degree itself and the date awarded. The Woods College, as a fully-functioning school of BC, awards degrees as all BC schools do. What is the deadline for admission? Please visit the application information section of the web page for deadlines. (International students seeking a visa should apply at least 3 months prior to their intended start term, and can only be admitted for fall and spring semesters.) How long does it take to complete the degree? This is variable and is largely based on how many courses a student takes at any given time. If you take 2 courses per semeser, you can complete the degree in 16 months. Can students work full-time and pursue this degree? This is certainly a possibility and we have designed the program to be flexible to accomodate a variety of scheduling needs. Do you offer graduate student housing? No. Boston College does not currently offer housing for graduate students but our Office of Residential Life does have a staff member who can help you find off-campus housing. Accelerated Program for Boston College Students Benefits for Stonehill, Merrimack & Suffolk students inquire form Get More Information Loading... Quick Links Advising Take a Course as a Nondegree Student Why Woods? Diversity & Inclusion Events Back To Top Back To Top Woods College of Advancing Studies St. Mary's Hall South, Ground Floor Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts 02467 617-552-3900 woodscollege@bc.edu About Admission Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Community Apply Contact Give Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College