Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Programs Carroll School of Management Accounting Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Accounting The objective of the accounting curriculum sequence is to prepare the undergraduate accounting concentration for a career in accounting or a related field. This curriculum is broad in scope and coverage, so it is relevant and useful for a career in public accounting, industry, financial institutions, government, information systems, law, or not-for-profit organizations. There are three concentrations housed in the Accounting Department: (1) Accounting, (2) Accounting for Finance and Consulting, and (3) Accounting and Information Systems. Students will not be allowed to concentrate in more than one of these. Students outside of CSOM will be able to complete one of two minors in accounting, Accounting for CPAs and Accounting for Finance and Consulting. The requirements for a minor are based on a selection of the required and elective courses for the Accounting and the Accounting for Finance and Consulting concentrations. Accounting Courses Accounting Faculty Accounting Website Print Open All Close All Concentration in Accounting Concentration in Accounting The objective of the accounting curriculum sequence is to prepare the undergraduate major for a professional career in public accounting, industry, financial institutions, government, information systems, law, or not-for-profit organizations. The curriculum is broadly based in its scope and coverage, so as to be relevant and useful for a variety of careers. Students intending to acquire a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) designation should choose this concentration to best satisfy its requirements. Objectives The objectives of the Accounting Concentration are as follows: (1) Prepare the student to successfully pass the CPA exam. The exam includes four parts, covering auditing and attestation (AUD), business environment and concepts (BEC), financial accounting and reporting (FAR), and regulation (REG). The course requirements for the concentration provide a sound basis for preparing students to successfully pass each section of the exam. (2) Provide a broad-based understanding of the use of accounting data and information by managers and others for decision-making. Passing the CPA exam and becoming a licensed accountant opens the door for many careers in addition to professional accounting. The CPA designation not only signals a specific set of skills but is also indicative of the dedication and rigorous analytical skills useful in numerous non-accounting pursuits. Although most graduates with an Accounting Concentration begin their careers in public accounting, the long-term career options are diverse, and our graduates now hold key positions in corporate finance, human resources, marketing, economics, entrepreneurship, government, education, and many other fields. Required 15 credits hours in: ACCT1022 Managerial Accounting ACCT3301 Financial Accounting Standards and Theory I ACCT3302 Financial Accounting Standards and Theory II ACCT3307 Managerial Cost and Strategic Analysis ACCT4405 Federal Taxation · And at least 3 credits from one of the following four courses only: ACCT3309 Audit and Other Assurance Services* ACCT3351 Financial Statement Analysis ACCT6601 Financial Accounting Standards and Theory III ACCT6618 Accounting Information Systems *Auditing is a requirement to sit for the CPA exam in all states. Most states require from eight to eleven accounting classes (24 to 33 accounting credit hours) in order to be qualified as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA). Because the accounting concentration requires only six accounting classes (18 credits), in addition to ACCT1021 Financial Accounting (3 credit hours) included in the CSOM core, a student must take additional accounting classes. The department offers a number of accounting electives that students can take to satisfy their CPA requirements. ACCT3309 Audit and Other Assurance Services ACCT3351 Financial Statement Analysis ACCT3399 Directed Readings and Research ACCT4409 Advanced Auditing ACCT6601 Financial Accounting Standards and Theory III ACCT6615 Advanced Federal Taxation ACCT6618 Accounting Information Systems ACCT6623 Fair Value Accounting and Measurement ACCT6626 Taxes and Management Decisions ACCT6634 Ethics and Professionalism in Accounting** ACCT6635 Forensic Accounting ACCT6640 Dive, Dissect, and Decide with Big Business Data (Spring) ** Please note: Massachusetts is no longer accepting this course as one of the required 10 accounting classes. Please check with the state where you plan to practice to see if this course will count towards your required Accounting credits. Concentration in Accounting for Finance and Consulting Concentration in Accounting for Finance and Consulting The Accounting for Finance and Consulting Concentration builds on the CSOM core curriculum and is a great complement to many other concentrations, including Finance, Marketing and Business Analytics. Students with this concentration can pursue a wide variety of careers in business, including financial analysis, investment banking, consulting, marketing, and management training programs. Skills learned in this concentration position students for greater upward mobility in their career paths since the need for managers with an understanding of financial statements and financial reporting is evergreen. This concentration is designed to teach users of financial statements (rather than preparers of financial statements) how accounting information, shaped by regulation, has advantages and limitations in assessing the economics of an underlying business. Objectives The objectives of the Accounting for Finance and Consulting Concentrations are as follows: (1) Expand and deepen your knowledge of external financial reporting and choices that managers make in preparing information for SEC filings. The knowledge is critical for both those who plan to use financial statements to analyze or value companies and those whose jobs require an understanding of how business decisions affect financial statements. (2) Provide an understanding of the accounting data and information managers use for internal decision-making. For students interested in marketing or consulting, this knowledge enables you to accurately assess the true costs of producing a product or service and to identify the relevant information for make-versus-buy decisions. You will develop skills needed to accurately forecast revenues, expenses, and product demand. You will also understand how to set important organizational controls. (3) Provide students with the financial tools and accounting savvy needed to converse with upper level management about the operation of the firm. Guidelines and Courses This concentration requires four courses (12 credit hours) one intermediate accounting course, one required elective in either managerial cost analysis or financial statement analysis, and two other electives from a set of approved electives in accounting, finance, business analytics, or economics. Required 3 credit hours in: ACCT3321 Intermediate Accounting for Finance and Consulting* And at least 3 credit hours from one of the following: ACCT3307 Managerial Cost Analysis ACCT3351 Financial Statement Analysis And at least 6 credit hours from two of the following:** ACCT3307 Managerial Cost Analysis or ACCT3351 Financial Statement Analysis*** ACCT3309 Audit and Other Assurance Services ACCT4405 Federal Taxation ACCT6601 Financial Accounting Standards and Theory III ACCT6615 Advanced Federal Taxation ACCT6618 Accounting Information Systems ACCT6623 Fair Value Accounting and Measurement ACCT6626 Taxes and Management Decisions ACCT6635 Forensic Accounting ACCT6640 Dive, Dissect, and Decide with Big Business Data (spring) BZAN3375 Operations Strategy and Consulting BZAN3384 Predictive Analytics BZAN6606 Forecasting Techniques ECON2228 Econometric Methods MFIN2235 Investment Banking (fulfills Finance “Bucket” elective) MFIN6616 Investment Banking (fulfills Finance “Other” elective) *As a substitute for ACCT3321, you may take both ACCT3301 (FAST I) and ACCT3302 (FAST II). Both must be taken to count towards the requirement. ACCT3302 will count as one of your electives. **A maximum of one elective can count towards the requirements of two different concentrations. ***Both classes may be taken, and the second one will count as an elective. Concentration in Accounting and Information Systems Concentration in Accounting and Information Systems Employers continually emphasize the value of graduates who understand both business and the information system (IS) that supports it. While IS professionals develop competence in the design and implementation of business information systems, accountants have a broad understanding of the business process and controls and how the systems are used to generate information for decision making. Having the two skill sets is invaluable. Students fulfilling this concentration will satisfy all of the requirements for the IS concentration and also obtain a background in Accounting. The curriculum entails five courses (four required and one Accounting elective) and is designed for students interested in careers either with the consulting divisions of professional service firms, such as major accounting firms and IS departments of companies, or as IS auditors. Students are advised to see a faculty advisor in selecting an appropriate Accounting elective. This concentration is administered jointly by the Accounting Department and the Information Systems Department. Required 12 credit hours in: ACCT3301 Financial Accounting Standards and Theory I ACCT6618/ISYS6618 Accounting Information Systems ISYS3257 Database Systems and Applications (or CSCI2257)* ISYS4258 Systems Analysis and Design *Beginning with the class of 2024, ISYS3350 Data Management for Analytics and Applications will be required in place of ISYS3257 or CSCI2257. And at least 3 credit hours from one of the following: ACCT3302 Financial Accounting Standards and Theory II ACCT3307 Managerial Cost and Strategic Analysis ACCT3309 Audit and Other Assurance Services ACCT3351 Financial Statement Analysis ACCT6640 Dive, Dissect and Decide with Big Business Data (spring) Accounting for CPAs Minor Accounting for CPAs Minor This minor is for students who are interested in working in public accounting. Please note: To meet the CPA requirements, students will need several courses beyond the minor. The objective of the accounting curriculum sequence is to prepare the student for a professional career in public accounting, industry, financial institutions, government, information systems, law, or not-for-profit organizations. The curriculum is broadly based in its scope and coverage so as to be relevant and useful for a variety of careers. Students intending to acquire a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) designation should choose this minor to best satisfy its requirements. For more information, see the discussion of the Accounting Concentration. Please note: This MCAS minor does not ensure that a student meets all requirements for sitting for the CPA exam. For instance, most states require a significant number of general business classes to sit for the CPA exam. This minor is only meant to give an MCAS student a start on meeting the many requirements. Required 18 credit hours in: ACCT1021 Intro to Financial Accounting ACCT3301 Financial Accounting Standards and Theory I ACCT3302 Financial Accounting Standards and Theory II ACCT3307 Managerial Cost Analysis ACCT3309 Auditing and Other Assurance Services* ACCT4405 Federal Taxation *Auditing is a requirement to sit for the CPA exam in all states. Most states require from eight to eleven accounting classes (24 to 33 accounting credit hours) in order to be qualified as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA). Because the accounting minor requires only six accounting classes (18 credit hours), a student must take additional accounting classes. The department offers a number of accounting electives that students can take to satisfy their CPA requirements. Accounting Department Electives ACCT1022 Managerial Accounting ACCT3351 Financial Statement Analysis ACCT3399 Directed Readings and Research ACCT4409 Advanced Auditing ACCT6601 Financial Accounting Standards and Theory III ACCT6615 Advanced Federal Taxation ACCT6618 Accounting Information Systems ACCT6623 Fair Value Accounting and Measurement ACCT6626 Taxes and Management Decisions ACCT6634 Ethics and Professionalism in Accounting* ACCT6635 Forensic Accounting ACCT6640 Dive, Dissect and Decide with Big Business Data (Spring) *Please note: Massachusetts is no longer accepting this course as one of the required 10 accounting classes. Please check with the state you plan to practice in to see if this course will count towards your required Accounting credits. Accounting for Finance and Consulting Minor Accounting for Finance and Consulting Minor The Accounting for Finance and Consulting minor leverages the critical thinking and communication skills developed in the MCAS curriculum, providing students with key skills that distinguish them from other new hires in financial services or consulting. It also provides students with an advantage in graduate business programs. Objectives: The objectives of the Accounting for Finance and Consulting minor are: (1) Develop your knowledge of external financial reporting and choices that managers make in preparing information for SEC filings. This knowledge is critical for both those who plan to use financial statements to analyze or value companies and those whose jobs require an understanding of how business decisions affect financial statements. (2) Provide an understanding of the accounting data and information managers use for internal decision-making. For students interested in consulting, this knowledge enables you to accurately assess the true costs of producing a product or service and to identify the relevant information for make-versus-buy decisions. You will develop skills needed to accurately forecast revenues, expenses, and product demand. You will also understand how to set important organizational controls. (3) Provide students with the financial tools and accounting savvy needed to converse with upper level management about the operations of the firm. Requires 18 credit hours: Required Courses: ACCT1021 Financial Accounting ACCT3321 Intermediate Accounting for Finance and Consulting* Choose a Track: Consulting Track ACCT1022 Managerial Accounting ACCT3307 Managerial Cost Analysis Finance Track MFIN1021 Fundamentals of Finance ACCT3351 Financial Statement Analysis Two electives from the following list (check the prerequisites for each course).** ACCT1022 Managerial Accounting and ACCT3307 Managerial Cost and Strategic Analysis ACCT3309 Audit and Other Assurance Services ACCT4405 Federal Taxation ACCT6601 Financial Accounting Standards and Theory III ACCT6615 Advanced Federal Taxation ACCT6618 Accounting Information Systems ACCT6623 Fair Value Accounting and Measurement ACCT6626 Taxes and Management Decisions ACCT6635 Forensic Accounting ACCT6640 Dive, Dissect, and Decide with Big Business Data (Spring) BZAN3375 Operations Strategy and Consulting BZAN3384 Predictive Analytics BZAN6606 Forecasting Techniques ECON2228 Econometric Methods MFIN1021 Fundamentals of Finance and ACCT3351 Financial Statement Analysis MFIN2235 Investment Banking or MFIN6616 Investment Banking *ACCT3301 FAST I will be accepted as a substitute for ACCT3321, but then you must also take ACCT3302 (FAST II) as one of your electives. **Electives may also include both courses from the other track (both will count together, but not separately). A maximum of one elective can count towards the requirements of two different minors/concentrations. Information for Study Abroad Information for Study Abroad Given the international scope of the profession, Accounting concentrators are encouraged to study abroad. The Accounting Department will endeavor to recognize elective courses for transfer to BC when appropriate. Prior approval is required in every case. All Accounting concentrators or minors should meet with the department assistant chair or department chair to plan their study abroad programs and to obtain definitive course approvals. CPA Recommendations CPA Recommendations The Department recommends that students who intend to practice as Certified Public Accountants (CPAs) check the board of accountancy of the state in which they plan to practice for its specific educational requirements (nasba.org). In almost all states, students are now required to complete 150 semester hours of course work to qualify for CPA licensure. In addition, a minimum number of accounting courses with specific topical coverage may be necessary. For more information please refer to the BC Guide to Meeting CPA Requirements available online or in the department office. Because Boston College students typically graduate with only 120 credit hours (ignoring AP credits and overloads), students may require an extra year of course work in order to meet the 150 credit hours. Most undergraduates are able to meet the additional hours through AP credit transfers, overloads, and/or online/summer courses. However, Boston College offers a Master of Science in Accounting (M.S.) program to meet these additional requirements. For more details on the program, refer to the Boston College M.S. website: bc.edu/msa. Students who enter BC with Advanced Placement credits may be able to satisfy the 150-hour requirement in less time. Please contact the Accounting Department in Fulton 520 or via e-mail at csom.accounting@bc.edu if you have any additional questions. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College