Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Looking Out for Marine Mammals Earth Sciences Looking Out for Marine Mammals When using sound to search for an undersea fault, researchers must take special precautions to protect dolphins, whales and other vulnerable species. By Suzanne Carbotte, Amanda Dubuque and the PSO team July 06, 2021 An important part of our operations while we are collecting our seismic data involves monitoring for protected species — including marine mammals, sea turtles, and several species of seabirds — so that we can minimize any potential impacts of our survey. Much planning prior to the cruise focuses on how to achieve this. Protected species observers monitoring for protected species and photographing a whale (red arrow). Five qualified protected species observers (PSOs) approved by regulating government agencies were independently contracted and deployed to participate in our survey. During daylight hours, PSOs keep visual watch typically from a specially designed observation tower. The tower is equipped with extremely powerful big-eye binoculars capable of detecting animals out to many kilometers and SLR cameras with zoom lenses to document observations. At the same time, as well as throughout the night, another PSO is down in the lab listening for marine mammals using a passive acoustic monitoring (PAM) system, which is a hydrophone array connected to a sophisticated compilation of sound cards and a processing unit designed to detect (and sometimes localize) different whale and dolphin species vocalizations. A passive acoustic monitoring operator monitoring for marine mammal vocalizations. If a marine mammal is detected, either visually or using PAM, the PSOs utilize all of their tools and experience to determine how far away the animal is from the vessel. If they determine that it is located within a pre-defined distance from our sound source array, we shut down our sound source. While we are close to the coastline offshore northern Washington and Vancouver Island, where marine mammals of particular concern may be located, we also have another ship — the R/V Rachel Carson — sailing 5 kilometers ahead of us with three additional PSOs onboard, with two on watch at a time, to alert us in advance of any marine mammals they observe. These extra eyes ahead of our operations help us to detect and implement the necessary precautions for these animals. All throughout the cruise, the PSO team documents survey operations, their monitoring effort, including the environmental conditions while they are on watch, and all of the details of their sightings, including species, detection cues, observed behavior, number of animals present and much more. Upon completion of the cruise, the PSO team submits a comprehensive final report to the regulatory agencies that authorized the project. In this way, the information we are collecting aboard the Langseth contributes to the broader understanding of protected species, such as where these animals are found at different times of the year, their population sizes, and their migration routes, furthering our knowledge about life offshore in these areas. This cruise has given insight and opportunity to not only gather important seismic data, but also enable the PSOs, the science team, and the crew of the vessel to witness some remarkable wildlife. Below are photos of some of the animals observed so far during the expedition, during times when we are preparing equipment and with our survey underway. Image Carousel with 6 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Humpback whales Slide 2: Pacific white-sided dolphins detected on the PAM system (high frequency echolocation clicks). Slide 3: Pacific white-sided dolphins and northern right-whale dolphins. Slide 4: Western gull, fork-tailed storm-petrel, black-footed albatross, glaucous-winged gull, northern fulmar, royal tern. Slide 5: California sea lion, oceanic sunfish, juvenile blue sharks, northern fur seal, adult blue shark. Slide 6: Great white shark Humpback whales Pacific white-sided dolphins detected on the PAM system (high frequency echolocation clicks). Pacific white-sided dolphins and northern right-whale dolphins. Western gull, fork-tailed storm-petrel, black-footed albatross, glaucous-winged gull, northern fulmar, royal tern. California sea lion, oceanic sunfish, juvenile blue sharks, northern fur seal, adult blue shark. Great white shark Previous Next Photo credits: Amanda Dubuque, Cassandra Frey, Edgar Brunett, Leonardo De La Rosa, Felipe Rodriguez Tags illuminating the cascadia subduction zone Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close