Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit Career and Professional Development Finding the right career or your post-graduation “fit” starts in your first semester. Home Undergraduate Career & Professional Development More in this section Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Accounting and Finance, BSAF Accounting, BBA Accounting, BSBA Accounting, Minor Accounting, Accelerated Master’s Accounting, Five Year Program Business Analytics, BBA Business Analytics, BSBA Business Analytics, Accelerated Master's Business Analytics, Minor Business Analytics, Minor for BSBA Cognate in Business Analytics Business Technology, BBA Business Technology, BSBA Business Technology, Minor Economics, BBA Economics, BSBA Economics, BA Political Economy, Minor Political Economy, Minor for Non-Business Students Quantitative Economics, Minor Quantitative Economics, Minor for Non-Business Students Cognate in Developmental Economics Cognate in Quantitative Economics Entrepreneurship, BBA Entrepreneurship, BSBA Minor in Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship, Minor for Non-Business Students BBA in Finance Finance, BSBA Finance, Accelerated Master's Program Finance, Minor Minor in FinTech Global Business, Co-Major International Business, Minor Health Management and Policy, BBA Health Management and Policy, BSBA Health Management and Policy, Minor Health Management and Policy, Minor for Non-Business Students Human Resource Management, BBA Human Resource Management, BSBA General Business, BBA General Business, BSBA Cognate in Understanding Business Legal Studies, BBA Legal Studies, BSBA Business Law, Minor Business Law, Minor for Non-Business Students Management, BBA Management, BSBA Management, Minor Management, Minor for Non-Business Students Marketing, BBA Marketing, BSBA Marketing, Minor Marketing, Minor for Non-business Students Organizational Leadership, BBA Organizational Leadership, BSBA Sustainable Business, Minor Real Estate, BBA Real Estate, BSBA Real Estate, Minor Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Honors & Accelerated Programs Foote Fellows in Business Accelerated & Dual Degrees Business and Latin Honors Summer Scholars Program Academic Support Academic Advising Academic Resources Double ’Cane Scholars Program Bermont/Carlin Scholars Program Student Experience Get Involved with Miami Herbert Clubs and Organizations Experiential Learning Study Abroad Career and Professional Development How to Apply First-Year Students Transfer Students Visit Us Contact Us Miami Herbert’s robust professional development program enables you to explore various career paths and how well they may suit your interests. Starting a productive career after college may mean pursuing a corporate industry opportunity, going to graduate school, or a host of other meaningful options. However, finding the choice that is right for you requires thoughtful and intentional decision-making. We get you started right away, and we work hand-in-hand with your academic advisors to ensure you are in the academic curriculum that helps you get moving quickly. As a first-year student, you learn to prepare a professional resume and a LinkedIn page. Sophomores, juniors, and seniors have access to numerous workshops, including job search bootcamps that are immersive, multi-day trainings over a one-week period, several of which include specialized programs for specific career searches in finance and marketing. Students may also take advantage of individualized career coaching, which may include discussions about major/minor selection as it relates to career choice, resume review sessions, job search and networking strategy, and mock interviews and other interview preparation. Miami Herbert’s professional development team works closely with specific employers who offer information and recruitment activities specifically for business students to secure internships or full-time placement opportunities. All professional development activities at Miami Herbert complement the resources available at the Toppel Career Center where students may browse job postings, sign up for career fairs, and engage in additional career preparation skills-building activities. Browse Toppel’s offerings, take advantage of their walk-in hours, or make an individual appointment. Get Career Ready Explore Career Resources Sophomore Kickstart This event assists sophomores in framing a summer internship search, learning about internships of upper-class students, and beginning the process of resume-building and networking. Job Search Boot Camp The Internship Boot Camp for juniors and Job Search Boot Camp for seniors are intensive programs that sharpen students’ capacity to edit their resume content, practice their interviewing skills, and develop a personalized networking plan for the junior summer internship search and permanent employment post-graduation. Advanced Networking Training Students learn the essential skills for connecting, building, and leveraging new professional relationships. Interview Training The interview coach conducts a mock interview or gets students up to speed on the latest behavioral questions at the “heart” of most interview processes. Negotiating Salary Landing the offer is great news, but students may need some help honing the negotiation skills, as addressed in this workshop, to also land the salary that works for their needs. How to Wow in the Workplace! Success in Your Internship and Success in Your Work are small, interactive workshops that address specific internship and permanent employment scenarios that can arise. Coaches offer advice on best practices for ensuring success in the workplace. For more information and resources, please visit the Toppel Career Center website. Employment Outcomes The following table reports placement statistics for the last three cohorts who graduated in four years from the Miami Herbert. Graduating Class % of Students Placed Six-Months Post Graduation Average Salary* 2018 88.6% $55,000 2019 91.3% $59,000 2020 97.6% $64,000 *Salary information is based on a student survey. Externships First-year students are selected to participate in hands-on experiences shadowing select Miami alumni in their hometown. These opportunities provide early access to networking with Miami Herbert alumni and “early-ID” leadership programs in select careers. Learn More Nonprofit Internships Rising sophomores can obtain valuable work experience in a paid summer internship at a nonprofit organization. These experiences offer students unique opportunities to build their skills and knowledge of the work environment while providing substantive support to organizations in the nonprofit sector. Learn More Bermont-Carlin Scholars The highly selective Bermont-Carlin Scholars Program provides high-performing sophomores opportunities to sharpen their job search strategies and travel to New York City to meet employers from top-tier investment and commercial banks on Wall Street as well as major real estate related firms and other finance related businesses. Activities include professional networking with industry professionals to find opportunities for summer internships and visits to important institutions such as the New York Stock Exchange. Learn More The Marketing Scholars Program The Marketing Scholars Program enables select high-performing sophomore and junior marketing majors to travel to New York City each year to meet with marketing executives from leading marketing companies, as well as to explore internship and employment opportunities with top company executives. Recent visits have included Unilever Citi, PepsiCo, ad agency Edelman, Global Brands Group, Horizon Media, Buzz-Back Market Research, and Nielsen. Compliance Boot Camp Miami Herbert’s innovative Compliance Boot Camp is a four-day, non-credit module for undergraduate students. The program brings students back to campus a week early from winter break to study the pillars of compliance theory and practice in the health care and financial industries. For many attendees, the module represents a first-time exposure to learn from industry professionals and make case presentations to them. Participating students, ranging from freshmen to seniors, present their analysis of real-life cases of compliance failures, offering suggestions for the companies involved. This unique experience gives students a leg up in a growing field. Pre-Professional Studies Are you considering law or medical school after graduation? Earning an undergraduate degree in business will provide an excellent foundation for these disciplines and allow you to apply business concepts in the law or medical profession. To best prepare yourself for professional study, you must work closely with your academic advisor, who will help you to plan the recommended curriculum. Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback