Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Mellon Mays Fellowship Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship The Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship (MMUF) aims to increase the number of individuals from historically underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, and others with a demonstrated commitment to eradicating racial disparities, who pursue a Ph.D. in key fields. The program is named in honor of Dr. Benjamin E. Mays, an educator, scholar, minister, social activist, and former president of Morehouse College. The son of former slaves and an advisor to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Dr. Mays cultivated a unique mentoring style that integrated academic excellence with a concern for social justice. MMUF is funded by a grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. Since the program's inception in 1992, Brown has supported close to 120 Fellows. Nearly twenty-five Brown MMUF alumni are pursuing doctoral study at Columbia University, University of California at Berkeley, Vanderbilt University, the University of Chicago, the University of Michigan, Yale University, and other institutions. Nationally, more than 700 Fellows, including nearly thirty Brown alumni, have earned doctoral degrees and are now employed at colleges and universities throughout the country -- including Brown! Download the Mellon Mays Brochure CLASS OF 2022 Cohort 2022 Related Media Home About People Benefits Eligibility Applying Print this Page Share this Page University Hall Brown University Box 1828 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401/863-3488 Fax 401/863-1961 [email protected] Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Dean of the College Fellowships Website Mellon Mays Fellowship Institute for Recruitment of Teachers