Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy College of Graduate Studies News Limbitless Solutions Recognized as One of Florida’s Best Manufacturing Companies The UCF-based company is being honored with a Florida Sterling Manufacturing Business Excellence Award for its model operations. UCF Graduate Student Heads to Notre Dame for Tenure-track Position After Commencement Modeling and simulation doctoral student Karla Badillo-Urquiola ’14 ’15MS, says her family, UCF’s interdisciplinary programs, and her mentor were the winning formula for her success. Limbitless Solutions Sets Orlando Innovation Ecosystem on Fire The Orlando Business Journal honored the UCF-based organization with its 2022 Blazer Award for bringing the heat to Orlando’s innovation economy. Finding Your Passion at UCF Through Research Annaliese Bullock expects to graduate this May with a master’s degree in educational leadership with a track higher education/student personnel track 10 UCF Students Recognized by NSF Graduate Research Fellowships Program A Google co-founder and other changemakers have received these awards in the past. Two of the awardees graduate this spring. 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. UCF’s First In-person Student Scholar Symposium an Outstanding Success More than 450 projects were presented during the two-day event. Student Research Week: The Greater Good Ahead of Selfish Interests is Focus of Marketing Study Ph.D. student looks at how self-compassion creates longer lasting positive effects for donors in addition to fostering high prosocial behavior. Student Research Week: The Toll of the COVID-19 Pandemic on College Students Lives Sarah Da Silva explores the impact the COVID-19 pandemic has on college students’ daily lives and how support within community can help them cope and thrive. Student Research Week: The Impact of Disaster Migration on Receiving Communities Graduate student Ashley Steen is looking at the impact of the Puerto Rican migration to the Central Florida community following damage caused by Hurricane Maria in 2017. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida