COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Communication - Journalism , Major MajorCommunication - Journalism All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Elliott School of Communication Wichita State’s Bachelor of Arts (BA) in communication—journalism emphasis—combines classroom and hands-on learning in writing, editing, photography, design and presentation for mass audiences. With a focus on storytelling, the integrated print/broadcast journalism emphasis prepares students for careers in any news-related organization. Learn how the communication - journalism emphasis - is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Junior studying communications gains real newsroom experience Communication students have the opportunity to gain hands-on job experience before graduation. Carolina Loera-Lozano has always dreamt of becoming a bilingual reporter. Her time as a newsroom intern at KWCH helped validate those dreams. "I worked every day that I came in," said Loera-Lozano. "There was never a day that I was not learning. I feel like I will be ahead of the game in my classes now since I learned so much during my internship." Curriculum In addition to taking the communication core courses required for all Elliott School students, you’ll gain experience as a reporter, editor or producer—and study law, ethics, research and media theory. A departmental honors track is also available for this major. View the curriculum Careers A communication degree from Wichita State combines the classroom knowledge and hands-on learning that opens doors to careers in many fields—from public relations and journalism to editing and education. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs English Photo Media (Studio Art) Communication - Integrated Marketing Communication 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©