Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Academic Health Sciences Center Education, Research and Services Skip to Section The UCF Academic Health Sciences Center is a partnership that brings together health experts across the university to advance education, research and patient care. This structure best supports leading-edge care for the Orlando community and advances clinical practices around the world through high-impact education, innovative research and advanced patient care. College of Medicine The UCF College of Medicine is a founding member of Orlando’s Medical City at Lake Nona. In addition to the MD program, the medical school has 3,000+ undergraduate and graduate students in the biomedical sciences. UCF’s young medical school epitomizes innovation and a pioneering spirit to educate young doctors and scientists in a better way for the 21st century. Explore the College of Medicine College of Nursing UCF is ranked among the best in the nation and accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education. Nationally recognized faculty instruct online and on-campus degree programs at the bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral levels. UCF nursing graduates exemplify excellence, surpassing national averages on the RN license and nurse practitioner board exams. Learn More about UCF Nursing College of Health Professions and Sciences UCF educates future health researchers and healthcare providers through its programs in health sciences, communications sciences and disorders, social work, kinesiology and physical therapy. Read More about Health Professions and Sciences Caring for Central Florida UCF provides clinical care for patients in Central Florida through its network of care facilities. UCF Student Health Center Located on the Main Campus, with satellite clinics at the Rosen campus, UCF Downtown, and the Health Sciences campus, Health Services provides primary and specialty care services to help students achieve their optimum health to support their academic success. The Student Health Center treats about 6,000 students per month and leads campuswide health initiatives. Learn more about Student Health UCF Lake Nona Medical Center This partnership hospital between HCA Healthcare and UCF serves Central Florida through an academic medical approach. Located in Orlando’s Medical City at Lake Nona, the teaching hospital provides care for patients while educating future healthcare providers, and contributes to medical research that leads to lifesaving care. Learn more about the Lake Nona Medical Center’s Services Communication Disorders Clinic UCF offers cutting-edge diagnostic and treatment services to people of all ages with communication and hearing challenges. The clinic treats clients across the lifespan — from toddlers developing speech and language to adults who have lost speech, language or swallowing due to disease or trauma. Learn more about the CSD Clinic UCF Physical Therapy Clinic The faculty practice provides progressive, evidence-informed physical therapy services to UCF and the local community. All care is provided by licensed physical therapists who are clinical experts and faculty members of the UCF Division of Physical Therapy with expertise in orthopedics and sports physical therapy. Learn more about our Physical Therapy Clinic UCF Health Our faculty practice provides personalized, patient-centered care across Central Florida in two locations – East Orlando and Lake Nona’s Medical City. The clinic provides primary and specialty services under one roof. All physicians are UCF College of Medicine faculty members who are also educating the next generations of doctors. Learn More about UCF Health Research and Clinical Care Impact UCF faculty and students are leading cutting-edge research that impacts people’s health on a national and global scale to help better understand health conditions and their causes, and develop the best treatment. Leading the Charge in Healthcare Innovation College of Medicine Research College of Nursing Research College of Health Professions and Sciences Research Our students contribute to improving healthcare across Central Florida through our numerous clinical sites, community healthcare initiatives and on-site clinical training. Over 1,600 clinical education sites 4,718 volunteer hours at Apopka farmworkers clinic in 2019-20 More than 2,300 affiliated and volunteer faculty in the medical community $22 million in research funding awarded in FY20 Academics At the University of Central Florida, students can choose from a wide range of degrees that best prepare them for jobs in healthcare and biomedical research. Top 5 Health Sciences Degrees Health Sciences B.S. Communication Sciences Disorders B.S. Physical Therapy DPT Social Work MSW Sport and Exercise Science M.S. Top Online Healthcare Degrees Online Nurse Educator MSN Online Social Work MSW Online RN to BSN Online Nursing PhD Online Nurse Executive DNP Online Advanced Practice DNP Top 3 Nursing Degrees Nursing BSN Second Degree Nursing BSN Nurse Practitioner BSN to DNP Top Medicine Degrees M.D. Program Biomedical Sciences Health News Check out more health stories Health & Medicine UCF Engineer Helping Unlock Secrets of Heart Disease, Cancer, Sleep Apnea, more Professor Olusegun Ilegbusi uses his expertise in fluid dynamics to help doctors understand how diseases develop in hopes of finding treatments. Colleges & Campus COVID-19 Testing Site Open at UCF in Partnership with Aventus Biolabs UCF students, faculty and staff, along with members of the community, can receive COVID-19 testing in Garage A on main campus. Registration for an appointment is… Colleges & Campus HIV 101: What You Need to Know on World AIDS Day In honor of World AIDS Day, UCF Associate Professor J. Richelle Joe shares some insight into the HIV epidemic. Cancer-fighting Technology Licensed to Major Pharma Company College of Medicine Associate Professor Alicja Copik’s nanoparticle technology is now in the hands of Sanofi. The pharma company plans to use the technology in hopes of finding new blood-cancer treatments. Learn more about the innovative treatment University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida