skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Website Navigation Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings About About the University Campus safety Diversity initiatives Employment & careers Giving EO & Title IX Degrees & programs Majors Minors Online programs Graduate programs Colleges & schools Admissions Freshman admissions International admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Financial aid & scholarships Tuition & fees Campus Life Campus experience Housing Dining First-year student guide Fitness & recreation Student engagement Events calendar Research & Innovation University research Graduate research Undergraduate research Innovation hub Research hub Athletics NevadaWolfpack.com Buy tickets Events schedule Support athletics TV & radio Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login About About the University Campus safety Diversity initiatives Employment & careers Giving EO & Title IX Degrees & programs Majors Minors Online programs Graduate programs Colleges & schools Admissions Freshman admissions International admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Financial aid & scholarships Tuition & fees Campus Life Campus experience Housing Dining First-year student guide Fitness & recreation Student engagement Events calendar Research & Innovation University research Graduate research Undergraduate research Innovation hub Research hub Athletics NevadaWolfpack.com Buy tickets Events schedule Support athletics TV & radio Apply Visit News Give Nevada's land-grant institution Researchers like Jacquie Snow, Ph.D. are improving the lives of all Nevadans *Photos without masks taken prior to COVID-19 pandemic Learn how Jacquie is changing brain research Top tier. Top in research. Top in engagement. Founded in 1874, the University was established as Nevada’s land-grant institution under the Morrill Act of 1862, signed into law by President Abraham Lincoln. Today, the University is recognized as a top National University by U.S. News & World Report, one of the country's top research institutions by the Carnegie® Classification and a Carnegie® Engaged University. Our story Our research Since 2009, we've invested $850 million in you. Once you prowl the campus, you'll want to join the Pack. 290 acres. 180 buildings. 60 research facilities. 12 museums and galleries. 13 schools and colleges. $850 million invested in advanced labs, residence halls and facilities to drive your success. Explore campus Explore colleges and schools Explore residence halls Research that turns discovery into prosperity. Through the University's division of Research & Innovation, we have created an "innovation ecosystem" with community partnerships and engaged outreach to drive economic development and prosperity for all Nevadans. Because of this focus, Reno has become a burgeoning global technology hub, home to the Tesla Gigafactory, Microsoft Licensing, Switch, Panasonic, Sierra Nevada Corporation and more. Research & innovation Go where knowledge leads Innovation hub Education that transforms you. Today, the University continues to build on its heritage of access to education by investing in a leading-edge academic experience with exceptional faculty, student services and vibrant campus life that promote our diverse students' cognitive growth and academic achievement -- all while remaining one of the best values in American higher education. Majors & bachelor's degrees Graduate programs The Honors College This campus is alive, 365. Are you ready to paint the N or join hundreds of other Pack students for Dorm Storm? Are you ready to March to the Arch or crash Lawlor Events Center with the Blue Crew during basketball games? Are you ready to make the most out of your student experience? Student organizations Student communities Nevada Athletics The only Tier 1 university near Lake Tahoe Uniquely situated just 45-minutes from Lake Tahoe and a four-hour drive to the Bay Area, the University of Nevada, Reno offers a truly unique campus experience. Whether spending time at the historic quad or cheering on our Mountain West championship teams, there is something for everyone at Nevada. Explore Reno-Tahoe Plan a visit Get more information A leading land-grant institution dedicated to the public good Founded in 1874, the University of Nevada, Reno was established as Nevada’s land-grant institution under the Morrill Act of 1862, which was signed into law by President Abraham Lincoln. Learn how we serve our community Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX