Alert message This dialog contains an alert message for the Penn State community. For the latest COVID-19 news and information, visit Penn State's Coronavirus Information website. Continue to follow CDC-recommended health/safety precautions, contact your healthcare provider if you have questions or feel ill, and review information from state and national health authorities. Close Coronavirus Updates Skip to main content This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Featured Impact: Beyond Limitations Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Penn State among top 100 universities in the world in 2022 QS Rankings Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Featured Impact: First To Inspire Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment College and Campus News Surviving in Place: Environmental archeology in Madagascar Hotline Give Apply More Full site navigation menu This dialog contains the full navigation menu for www.psu.edu. Search Term Hotline Give Apply This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment Find Information For: Visitors Prospective Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Business and Industry Veterans and Military Alumni Media Helpful Links Find a Campus Maps Careers Directory Academic Calendar Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Close Accessibility Statement Penn State is committed, through our Policy AD69, to ensuring that people with disabilities have an opportunity equal to that of their nondisabled peers to participate in the University's programs, benefits, and services, including those delivered through electronic and information technology. If you discover a web page or application that is not accessible or does not conform to Policy AD69, please contact our IT Accessibility Team by email at accessibility@psu.edu. Please describe the problem, including the web address or URL of the web page or application. You can also call the University Help Desk at 814-865-HELP (4357). Penn State students with disabilities are supported by Student Disability Resources (SDR). Contact SDR using their web form. For appointments, call 814-863-1807, Monday through Friday, between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time (US). If you are a Penn State student located at a Commonwealth campus, please contact your local campus disability coordinator. If you believe you are experiencing or witnessing discrimination based on disability, you may file a formal grievance with Penn State’s Affirmative Action Office. Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Get News By Email // Discover News Explore News Careers Facts and Rankings Colleges Campuses Health Care Research Impact Resources Prospective Students Current Students International Students Business and Industry Veterans and Military Visitors Faculty and Staff Alumni Media Popular Links Maps Directory Libraries Academic Calendar LionPATH Stay Connected Emails / Headlines Emergency Notifications Penn State Go Strategic Communications Report Misconduct Police 201 Old Main, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802 814-865-4700 Contact Us Privacy Statement Non Discrimination Accessibility Equal Opportunity Legal Statements The Pennsylvania State University © 2022