Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information Keep Harvard Healthy Updates & Community Messages Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Below, you’ll find links to the 10 most recent COVID-19 community messages from University leadership. You can also access all COVID-related community messages. COVID-19 Considerations at Commencement May 23, 2022 Dear Members of the Harvard Community, I am writing with public health guidance directed in particular to those attending commencement-related events. COVID-19 transmission is rated as “high” in Boston and Cambridge. Please use this knowledge… Read more COVID Update – Transition to Optional Testing Program Apr 25, 2022 Dear Members of the Harvard Community, In the coming weeks, the University will cease to require regular surveillance testing. Testing will continue to be available on an optional basis, and anyone with symptoms or known exposure… Read more COVID-19 Guidance Update and University Travel Update Apr 13, 2022 Dear Members of the Harvard Community, We are writing with updates on our evolving COVID-19 policies. We continue our daily monitoring of cases and other key indicators, including hospitalizations. While we have seen recent increases in… Read more COVID-19 Guidance Update Mar 29, 2022 With the recent removal of mask mandates, we are writing with an update on our ongoing guidance related to the COVID-19 pandemic… Read more COVID Update – Phased Easing of COVID Restrictions Mar 07, 2022 Dear Members of the Harvard Community, As the number of new infections and hospitalizations continues to decline in the region and in much of the nation, federal, state, and local authorities have announced that mandatory… Read more COVID-19 Guidance Update Feb 28, 2022 Dear Members of the Harvard Community, I’m writing with an update on our ongoing management and guidance related to the COVID-19 pandemic. First, thank you for your continued commitment to the steps and behaviors that… Read more COVID Update – Spring Semester & Vaccine Booster Verification Jan 26, 2022 While our current positivity rate is higher than what we saw in the fall semester, we continue to see mild cases thanks to our community’s high vaccination rate. Remember: Monday, January 31 is the deadline… Read more COVID Update – Additional Information and Updated Protocols and Policies Jan 12, 2022 We continue to see a very high rate of COVID-19 cases locally and nationally, presenting challenges that require us to update our protocols and policies as we plan for an on-campus spring semester. Read more COVID Update – Spring Semester Update and Vaccine Booster Verification Jan 04, 2022 We continue to plan for an in-person spring semester. Verification of your COVID-19 booster is required by January 31. If you are not yet eligible to receive the booster, your deadline will be 30 days… Read more COVID Update – Winter Session Travel Dec 22, 2021 If you’re planning University-related domestic or international travel in the next few weeks, we urge you to reconsider those plans. Ask whether the travel needs to occur now or if it can be delayed. Read more Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube