Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of English Undergraduate Graduate People Internships News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of English Internships English Internship Opportunities The internship program in the English department provides exciting and practical opportunities for students to use their English skills in professional environments. Students gain valuable experience for career development and/or graduate school work, and benefit from personal and writing growth, mentoring, and networking opportunities. English majors may also take the independent study course ENGL 4640: Internship in English, to earn three (3) hours of college credit during their internship. Students must be English majors, have already completed ENGL 1010, 1020, and 2201/2, and have secured their internship prior to enrolling in the internship course. Students should find and secure their own English-related internship or apply for one of the internship positions affiliated with the English Department (please see list below). Students must be given a permit by the English Department advisor, Bridget Wells, to enroll in the internship course. You can also watch a recording of our most recent information session here, and you can view the PowerPoint presentation from the information session here. The Experiential Learning Fellowship is available to support CAS students who will be participating in otherwise unpaid mentored research, practica placements, or internships related to their field of study and who meet selected criteria. Click here to learn more. Current Internship Opportunities National Civil Rights Museum Visit https://www.civilrightsmuseum.org/employment for more information. St. Jude Visit their internships webpage for more information. Peer Power Visit https://peerpowerfoundation.org/ for more information. Literacy Mid-South To apply, students need only send a brief cover letter to Stacy Early, Adult Program Director, at searly@literacymidsouth.org. The organization is more interested in students' creativity and vision than traditional work experience. Writing Workshop Intern Job Description: 10 hours/week, unpaid, in-person work required with some aspects of the work done remotely. Literacy Mid-South is looking for one intern from the University of Memphis English Department each semester to facilitate writing workshops geared toward adult learners who are working to improve their reading and writing skills. The intern can choose a weekly schedule that includes one evening, one weekend, and one virtual workshop option. How these are facilitated, and the materials used are flexible. This pilot program will be an opportunity to create workshops to fit your style and that are accessible and engaging to adult learners who may have not had a good experience in a traditional classroom. ALL Memphis To apply, please send a one-page cover letter and resume to Lulu Abdun, Data and Technology Specialist, @ labdun@allmemphis.org with "ALLMemphis Internship" in the subject line. Job description: 15 hours/week, in-person, unpaid. ALLMemphis is seeking a passionate college intern to help accelerate the organization’s impact by assisting with curriculum edits, revisions, and entry into the new curriculum software platform, Ditto Literacy. The primary responsibilities of the intern are to transfer existing foundational reading curriculum elements from PowerPoint format into Ditto Literacy. This involves a keen eye for detail and ideal for an individual who is technically inclined. Other responsibilities include working with the Program Specialist Manager to edit and modify curriculum components to best align with popular science of reading trends. Other areas of potential involvement are working with the External Relations Manager to craft ideas/content for the monthly blog and/or organization newsletter. There are also potential opportunities for the intern to observe at local partner schools with the Program Specialist Team to gain experience with and appreciation for the translation of curriculum creation to curriculum instruction. Stand for Children, Memphis Office To apply, please send cover letter and resume to Paul Garner, TN Regional Organizing Director, @ pgarner@stand.org. Job description: 10-15 hours/week, mostly VIRTUAL due to the pandemic, unpaid. Interns attend planning meetings while learning and participating in various Stand-supported community projects and campaigns. Other responsibilities and tasks may include copywriting, drafting editorial pieces, and assisting the Communications and Organizing Departments with media, research, and outreach opportunities. Just City Visit https://airtable.com/shro8TQo13ElipGQf to view their internship application. Memphis Artists for Change Click here to view the Memphis Artists for Change website. To apply, send cover letter and resume to info@mem4change.org. Successful internship candidates may have a background in: community development, activism, volunteering, social work; art, non-profit, humanitarian, or religious work; teaching, coaching, or mentoring; public speaking, public relations, team leadership; campaign managing, marketing, or branding; community or street fundraising, phone banking, or political canvassing; customer service, hospitality; entrepreneurship. Job description: 10-15 hours a week; unpaid; remote work with opportunity to attend occasional staff meetings as needed. Social media and website management duties: Developing social media strategies, social media content calendars, and editing & creating content copy for social media and organization website Monitoring social media channels and using social media management tools to track brand content Creating engaging content copy, developing a template for the newsletter, monitoring channels & website for key/optimal mentions of the organization or website conversion and interaction Planning duties: Executing organization communications campaigns as an integral member of a grassroots org with partners local and nationwide Coordinating content copy through organization's communication tool of tracked data from spreadsheets, Google Docs, and Microsoft Office sheets Creating briefs, memos, and internal documentation to align teams and move multi-channel projects forward Directly engaging with the community on a regular basis Participating in learning and professional development to hone marketing skills and demonstrate knowledge in advertising and promotion Supporting organizers and organization partners Memphis Flyer Please send resume and cover letter to Jesse Davis, editor-in-chief, at jesse@memphisflyer.com. Job Description: 10-15 hours/week, unpaid, remote work with opportunities for in-person work experience. The intern will: Report to the editor, managing editor, and associate editor. Write at least one post for memphisflyer.com per week. (There is some flexibility here. These entries can be hard news, opinion, or arts coverage. The editor will give instruction, feedback, examples, and industry best practices for whichever kind of writing appeals to the intern. There is also an opportunity for some cross-publication work; e.g. Memphis Parent.) Fact check for the Flyer production team. Do some administrative duties — sending email, posting to social media, updating the Flyer’s music and events calendar, and going through older posts to check that the links still work. These duties are not priorities so much as they will help fill hours when immediate assignments aren’t forthcoming. Help build the Flyer’s photo library. We need updated photos of all important Memphis landmarks, and any photo of yours we use will be credited to you online and/or in print if it is used. There is a lot of flexibility with this job. Whatever your interest — technical writing, editorial (opinion) pieces, reporting, arts and culture, we will have work for you! Arkwings To apply, send resume and letter of interest to Jana Wilson, Executive Director, at janawilsoncreative@gmail.com. Job description: 10-15 hours/week, unpaid, combination of onsite and remote work. Arkwings is seeking one intern each for the summer and fall semesters of 2022 for an English/Language Arts internship, with an interest in integrating written and/or spoken language skills into existing arts and nature programs. The intern will work alongside Arkwings' staff with 20 years of experience in Marketing/PR and non-profit management. This project is designed to be a growth and learning experience for the student intern. Project tasks may include: Proposing creative ways to promote written and spoken language skills through a small, non-profit, community-based organization Creating content for Arkwings.org website Drafting, proofing, editing monthly email newsletter Writing content for website, interpretive signage, program and marketing materials Visiting other community organizations to understand interconnectivity and partnership opportunities Internship Forms Internship Agreement Form Work Log Midterm Supervisor Evaluation Form Final Supervisor Evaluation Form Midterm Self-Reflection Final Report and Self-Assessment To browse all internship opportunities at the University of Memphis, login to TigerLink by Handshake here. English Honor Society students: Click here to view a list of internship opportunities currently offered through Sigma Tau Delta. For more information about registering for internships, visit the Undergraduate Catalog. Internships Coordinator: Rachel Kaplowitz Cantrell 901.678.2651 rkplwitz@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.