Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Awards » Core Awards » Marshall Scholarship Set Navigation title in component Core Awards Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship Udall Info Session Priority Awards Boren Awards Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Marshall Scholarship Marshall Scholarships finance young Americans of high ability to study for a degree in the United Kingdom. Up to forty Scholars are selected each year to study at graduate level at any UK institution in any field of study. As future leaders, with a lasting understanding of British society, Marshall Scholars strengthen the enduring relationship between the British and American peoples, their governments and their institutions. Marshall Scholars are talented, independent and wide-ranging, and their time as Scholars enhances their intellectual and personal growth. Their direct engagement with Britain through its best academic programmes contributes to their ultimate personal success. This award requires university endorsement through a competitive campus process. In order to apply, you must contact NCA by the Intent to Apply Deadline. Having trouble writing an essay on your leadership skills? Prestigious scholarships often ask for a leadership essay, but what does such an essay entail? NCA has recorded a webinar full of tips to help you craft a compelling leadership narrative for your application. Please watch our 30-minute Leadership Essay Webinar (be sure to view as a Slide Show for audio narration). Closed captions are available. Deadlines Campus Deadline: April 25, 2022 Application Opens: June 2022 National Deadline: September 2022 Award Details right arrow down arrow A Marshall Scholarship fully funds 1-2 years of graduate study at any institution of higher education in the United Kingdom. Funding covers tuition & fees, cost of living, a book allowance, research and travel grants, and the cost of travel between the US and the UK. There are several different ways to use the scholarship as explained by this routemap. With a few exceptions, any degree program at any institution of higher education can be funded by a Marshall Scholarship. Who Should Apply right arrow down arrow Eligibility Criteria U.S. citizen Minimum undergraduate GPA of 3.7 (no rounding up) Rising seniors may apply. Recent alumni or currently enrolled Master’s students who are within two years of bachelor’s graduation date may also apply. Must not have studied for or hold a degree from a British university Please refer to the Marshall website for a detailed list of the eligibility criteria. Selection Criteria Marshall Scholars have the potential to excel as scholars, leaders, and contributors to improved UK-US understanding. They are mature, thoughtful, and curious, and they have a vision for how they will make a positive impact through their future studies and career. They have a strong record of meaningful leadership—they know how to get things done and why those things matter. They exhibit the three main selection criteria: Academic Merit Leadership Potential Ambassadorial Potential Please refer to the Marshall website for detailed descriptions of the selection criteria. Application Components right arrow down arrow Background information 5 Essays Transcripts Letters of recommendation (4): three academic references, one leadership reference How to Apply right arrow down arrow In the spring, attend an NCA Learning Series session on the Marshall Scholarship. This year, the Learning Series took place on February 22nd and 23rd via Zoom. Please email nca@uc.edu to request a recording of the session. Schedule an advising appointment with Dr. Jenny Hyest through My Bearcat Network. In advance of that appointment, please: Carefully review the Rules for Candidates. Complete two NCA forms: Intake form Records Release Form and submit to nca@uc.edu Complete NCA Campus Endorsement Application by April 25, 2022. Launch your online application (application opens June 2022) Endorsed candidates submit revised application by National Deadline: September 2022. Helpful Links, Tips, and Reminders right arrow down arrow The Marshall Scholarship offers useful tools for finding eligible degree programs, including the Marshall course finder. There are many outstanding universities in the UK, so explore widely and find the programs that are right for you. NCA can offer advice throughout this process. Sample essays are available from NCA upon request. Competition for the Marshall Scholarship is keen, and it takes some time to put together a polished application. Not only do you want time to move through several drafts of your essays prior to the campus deadline (we recommend 4-5 drafts), you also need time to research graduate programs and the US-UK relationship in your field of study. The process will be much less stressful—and you will gain much more from it—if you give yourself ample time to work on it. Information on this page is intended to supplement, not supplant, your own careful review of the official Marshall website. If you find any discrepancy between the two, the Marshall website takes precedence. Though you should seek out others’ advice and feedback on your application, the essays should be your original work (no one should be writing your essays for you). UC’s Student Code of Conduct applies. Recent Awardees right arrow down arrow Anna Armao - Marshall Scholarship Finalist, 2020 Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top