SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Professional MBA Professional MBA Overview Curriculum Experiential Learning Career Development Admissions Overview Curriculum Experiential Learning Career Development Admissions Jump To A Section Career Development Career Management Center PMBA Graduate ROI Representative Hiring Companies & Partners Highlight: The Cox Mentorship Academy Heart of Dallas Start Your Application Request More Information Meet 1:1 with PMBA Admissions Admissions Events Career Development We know you're making a major investment when you commit to earning your MBA. We believe it's our business to help you get the most out of your experience. From the moment of your acceptance through your life as an alum, SMU Cox is committed to enriching your career path and creating meaningful connections and opportunities for you. At SMU Cox, we’re your ally for business, and your ally for life. Career Management Center From the moment your program begins, you’ll collaborate with our team in the Career Management Center. Our students benefit from career coaching, grow their reach when searching for a job and participate in unique career treks. Our mission is to make sure you achieve your professional goals, during and after your MBA studies. The CMC's partnerships with top employers both inform their advice, and provide you vital connections. They can assist you with: Insightful career mapping and planning Dynamic resume building Challenging interview prep and mock interviews Salary negotiation strategy and more Dedicated career counselor/coach with one-on-one coaching tailored to meet your needs Explore the CMC PMBA Graduate ROI Median salary increase 40% PMBA students utilize CMC tools to grow their career 93% Average time span to recoup PMBA investment 36-42 months 2/3 received promotion, 1/3 pivoted to new function This data represents PMBA Aug '20, Dec '20 and May '21 graduating classes. Salary increase and promotion stats showcase results within 4 months of graduation. Students who received merit-based scholarships and/or corporate tuition benefits expect an even shorter recuperation period. Representative Hiring Companies & Partners Expand your professional network and gain access to hundreds of corporate partners and hiring companies. The Career Management Center collaborates with top employers to both inform their coaching preparation and advice. Our employers and corporate partners contribute to the strength and success of the Cox community, and provide you with vital connections to advance your career. Highlight: The Cox Mentorship Academy The Cox Mentorship Academy is a unique component of the support system that you'll find at SMU Cox. The program pairs you with a high-ranking business executive in your field for one-on-ones that give you a deep personal connection to Dallas's global 500 business community, as well as invaluable career insights and advice. With a roster of executive mentors representing national and global corporations and entrepreneurial ventures from every major industry, the Cox Mentorship Academy is a hallmark of our commitment to your success. Heart of Dallas Home to 24 Fortune 500 and 42 Fortune 1,000 headquarters, with more moving in each year, our region offers our students access to diverse and vibrant industries. Consistently ranked as the best big city for jobs, and the number one city for job growth, Dallas also offers an affordable quality of life for a major metro market. Next Steps Have a question? Join us for an upcoming event to learn more about our MBA programs. ADMISSIONS EVENTS Contact Us SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter