Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > December 7, 2021: COVID-19 Campus Update COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff December 7, 2021: COVID-19 Campus Update Dear Colleague: In view of the recent increases in COVID-19 cases and SARS-CoV-2 testing positivity in New York State and New York City due to colder weather and tendency to gather indoors, anticipated increase in holiday travel and get-togethers with families and friends, as well as concerns regarding omicron variant, we wanted to update you on several issues including recommended supplemental testing: Booster vaccine doses: Booster dosing is currently recommended for all adults. There are locations throughout the city and you may also make an appointment with ColumbiaDoctors by going onto your Connect account. ColumbiaDoctors is offering booster shots in five locations. Morningside students ONLY can book a booster appointment via the scheduling section of the Columbia Health Patient Portal (limited availability). Indoor masking: As you are aware, the University requires indoor masking in all its facilities and recommends masking outdoors in crowded settings; we expect this masking requirement to continue through the winter. The City has also recently issued a stronger recommendation on indoor masking in certain public spaces. See here. Outdoor masking: Effective 12/7, we are strongly encouraging masking outdoors in large gatherings. Supplemental SARS-CoV-2 testing: Additional testing is also recommended for individuals who have participated in activities that may be associated with risk of SARS-CoV-2 transmission. For the activities listed below, SARS-CoV-2 testing should be done on day 3 to 5 following travel and on day 5-7 following participation in the gatherings described below. For additional campus testing information, see CU COVID-19 Testing Program. Gatherings with more than 10 people in which any are unmasked, including while eating, and in which not all attendees have had a PCR or antigen test within 48 hours prior to the event . Domestic travel outside NYC via any form of public transportation (e.g., airplane, bus, train) excluding normal commuting travel from home and Columbia campuses. Travel to an area in the US with high COVID-19 incidence rates (defined as ≥50 cases per 100,000 population in latest week). SARS-CoV-2 required testing for international travel: Also keep in mind that the CDC announced new requirements for all US and non-US persons arriving in the US, regardless of vaccination status, requiring a negative COVID test within 24 hours of departure for travel to the US. As noted above, we also strongly recommend an additional test on day 3-5 days after return to the US. Testing is available at Lerner Hall on the Morningside campus and the Black Building on the CUIMC campus. The Columbia University surveillance testing program results are generally available in 24-36 hours, though it may take up to 72 hours for results and there is no option to expedite tests. The program does not offer rapid testing. In addition, testing is widely available in New York City and the metropolitan area, however you again need to consider that the results may, in certain locations, not be available immediately. Those seeking rapid antigen or rapid PCR tests may find the nyc.gov/covidtest site a helpful resource. Sincerely, Donna Lynne Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC University COVID Director Gerry Rosberg Senior Executive Vice President Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top