<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Leadership 20th Century Leaders Other Initiatives Other Initiatives Business & Environment Business History Digital Entrepreneurship Gender Health Care Social Enterprise Faculty & Research Executive Education MBA Experience Leadership Initiative …→ Harvard Business School→ Leadership→ Leading through the Fog of the Covid-19 Pandemic Unprecedented times call for unprecedented leadership. Professor Linda Hill, Faculty Chair of the Leadership Initiative, and alumnus Dr. Rakesh Suri, CEO of Cleveland Clinic Abu Dhabi, explore what it takes to build and lead an agile and resilient organization virtually. Read the Article Where Can Digital Transformation Take You? Insights from 1,700 Leaders Digital transformation seems like a journey without end, but many companies are forging ahead. Linda Hill and colleagues reveal six qualities that set digitally mature organizations apart. Read the Article HBS Professor Linda Hill Says Leaders Must Engage with Emotions as Never Before Hill says that getting an organization to its digital future is less about technology and tools, and more about people and culture. For leaders, that means intense collaboration with the people who do understand the technology and tools, being open to having their perspectives challenged, and engaging employees on a deeply emotional level. Watch the Video Great American Business Leaders of the 20th Century Identifying and chronicling the lives of 20th century men and women whose business leadership shaped the ways that people live, work, and interact. And understanding how contextual influences deeply affected the opportunities available for businesses throughout the last century. Database The 20th Century Zeitgeist Sep 2014 Video How to Manage for Collective Creativity By Linda Hill In this TED talk, Professor Linda hill shares the secret to unlocking the creativity hidden inside your daily work, and giving every great idea a chance. After studying some of the world's most creative companies, she's come up with a set of tools and tactics to keep great ideas flowing -- from everyone in the company, not just designated "creatives." Leadership Initiative Leaders have always faced the job of inspiring others while making important decisions with incomplete information. Today's leaders are confronted with challenges and opportunities that have never been more dynamic or complex. We help leaders effectively understand and manage these forces. More about the initiative Test your leadership skills: Strategic management Rate yourself to discover resources to improve your strategic management skills. Low High Develops distinctive strategies to achieve competitive advantage Translates broad strategies into specific objectives and action plans Defines strategic issues clearly despite ambiguity Aligns the organization to support strategic priorities Your score indicates that you are an emerging strategist. The following suggested readings should provide you with specific suggestions to define a competitive strategy: Harvard Business Review 07 Sep 2015 Games Can Make You a Better Strategist By Martin Reeves and Georg Wittenburg Harvard Business Review Nov 2013 What Makes Strategic Decisions Different By Phil Rosenzweig Your score indicates that you are an emerging strategist. The following suggested readings should provide you with specific suggestions to define a competitive strategy: Harvard Business Review 07 Sep 2015 Games Can Make You a Better Strategist By Martin Reeves and Georg Wittenburg Harvard Business Review Nov 2013 What Makes Strategic Decisions Different By Phil Rosenzweig Your score indicates that you are an intermediate strategist. To further develop your strategy, we recommend the following selections: Harvard Business Review 06 May 2014 Playing to Win Strategy Toolkit By Roger L. Martin, Jennifer Riel, and A.G. Lafley Harvard Business Review 07 Feb 2011 HBR's 10 Must Reads on Strategy By Michael E. Porter, W. Chan Kim, and Renee Mauborgne Your score indicates that you are an intermediate strategist. To further develop your strategy, we recommend the following selections: Harvard Business Review 06 May 2014 Playing to Win Strategy Toolkit By Roger L. Martin, Jennifer Riel, and A.G. Lafley Harvard Business Review 07 Feb 2011 HBR's 10 Must Reads on Strategy By Michael E. Porter, W. Chan Kim, and Renee Mauborgne Your average score of 5 indicates that you are an expert strategist. To maintain your competitive strategic advantage, we recommend the following readings: Harvard Business Review 14 May 2015 What Makes a Great Chief Strategy Officer By Kurt Strovink, Michael Birshan, and Emma Gibbs Leading in the Digital Era In this program you will benefit from cutting-edge research into companies around the globe undergoing digital transformation. You will discover what it takes to transform your organization to reap the full benefits of digital tools and data—and prepare to address some of today’s most pressing challenges. Women of Color Leadership Program In this Executive Education program, you and an exceptional group of peers—women of color who want to make a difference—will gain insight, skills, and relationships that will help you realize your leadership potential and contribute more fully to your company's success. Featured Leader 1903-1930 St. Luke Penny Savings Bank Maggie L. Walker Walker transformed the Independent Order of St. Luke, established a newspaper, became the first woman bank president in the U.S., and opened a store run by and for blacks. More Great American Leaders Go to Cold Call Story Pioneering Research Our faculty members author numerous books, produce academic papers, and write an array of articles for general business publications. 26 May 2022 HBS Working Knowledge Apple vs. Feds: Is iPhone Privacy a Basic Human Right? by Avery Forman More HBS Working Knowledge New Book Productive Tensions: How Every Leader Can Tackle Innovation's Toughest Trade-Offs By: Chris Bingham and Rory McDonald New Case Gender Equality in Business: 100 Years of Progress? By: Boris Groysberg and Colleen Ammerman More Recently Published In The News 25 May 2022 Harvard Business School Meet the 2022-23 Leadership Fellows 23 May 2022 Sales Lead Dog Podcast Sales Management That Works: Frank Cespedes: Senior Lecturer for Harvard Business School Re: Frank Cespedes 20 May 2022 NBC Musk Misconduct Allegation Won’t Stop Twitter Deal, Experts Say Re: David Yoffie →More News Initiatives focus on societal challenges that are too complex for any one discipline or industry to solve alone. ǁ Leadership Initiative Harvard Business School Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6242 Email: li@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College