Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Electrical Engineering Electrical Engineering VISIT ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING Electricity is central to our lives and its role will continue to grow in the coming decades as green transportation and renewable energy rely more and more on smart electric energy. Electrical engineers also design communication networks, wireless systems, autonomous systems, computing systems, and signal and information processing systems. They invent advanced electronic and photonic devices, integrated circuits, or information processing systems. Department Overview The Electrical Engineering department is among the oldest in the United States and has a storied history including being at the foundation of modern radio communications, control engineering, and multimedia coding. And, every day we are hard at work at pushing new frontiers in Electrical Engineering with innovative teaching and state-of- the-art research. Electrical Engineering at Columbia Education Our undergraduate program gives students a rounded foundation in electrical engineering, with depth specializations in photonics & devices, circuits & electronics, signals & systems, and communications & networking. We also offer MS programs in Electrical Engineering and, jointly with the Computer Science Department, in Computer Engineering, as well as PhD/DES programs. Our Master of Science program is highly flexible to accommodate each graduate student’s needs, while offering the opportunity to study the newest and most important topics in depth. In all areas, we stress a hands-on approach, with theory strongly motivated by practical applications. Doctoral students in the PhD or DES program work closely with their faculty advisors on exploring the new frontiers in research to prepare them for academic or industrial research careers. Our doctoral students are a carefully selected group who will go on to be the leaders and innovators in tomorrow's electrical engineering field. Research Our department makes important contributions in core engineering areas. Visit our Research pages to learn more about each one. Faculty Our world-renowned faculty push forward the frontiers of knowledge in electrical engineering. They introduce students to a career of advanced research and development in either an academic or industrial setting. For a full list of faculty members, please visit the department faculty page. Contact the Department Department of Electrical Engineering Columbia University 500 West 120th Street 1300 S. W. Mudd Building, Mail Code 4712 New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-854-3105 Fax: 212-932-9421 Email: [email protected] Computer Engineering Program The Computer Engineering program combines key aspects of electrical engineering and computer science. Whether pursuing a BS or Master of Science degree, students learn the fundamentals of circuits, systems, and software associated with the design of programmable systems used in general purpose computing, communications, control, and signal processing. Learn More About Computer Engineering 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact