Skip to main content Where Ideas Go to Work Home / Pennovation Center About The Works Vision Site History Resources Tours The Community Introduction Innovators Existing and Available Spaces Pennovation Center About the Center Events and Programs Membership Event Rentals News News in The Works Galleries Social Media 3401 Grays Ferry Ave Philadelphia, PA 19146 View Map Leasing Inquiries 215-573-6845 Commercialization Information 215-898-9591 About The Works Vision Site History Resources Tours The Community Introduction Innovators Existing and Available Spaces Pennovation Center About the Center Events and Programs Membership Event Rentals News News in The Works Galleries Social Media Pennovation Center The Pennovation Works is anchored by the Pennovation Center, a business incubator and laboratory that aligns and integrates researchers, innovators, and entrepreneurs for the commercialization of research discoveries. Intended to marry entrepreneurs with an expert workforce and scientifically advanced facilities, key features of the Pennovation Center are the common creative spaces, including coworking areas, a cafe, and a venue for events and programs. Pennovation Center North Façade By creating an atmosphere for collaboration, creativity, and productivity for innovators from all disciplines, the Pennovation Center brings people together to foster interaction and the exchange of ideas. Interior spaces in the 58,000 sqft building emphasize daylighting and retain an industrial character to develop social space with a "cool factor," while an adjacent outdoor plaza focuses activity on the site and link surrounding buildings and open spaces to this new hub. Landscaping for the entire site includes stormwater management techniques, increased connections between buildings, and access to Schuylkill River trails. Wayfinding and signage fosters an identity for the site, and increases visibility of the site and the Center from the surrounding area. The campus development plan, Penn Connects, recommends sustainable development for all new projects. The Pennovation Center has been awared a LEED Gold rating by the US Green Building Council. The Pennovation Center is operated and staffed by the award-winning innovation management company, 76Forward. The Center staff includes a full time Managing Director, Community Manager, and Lab Manager, who ensure that our members and tenants have a world class experience each day and manage all meetings and special events. FOLLOW PENNOVATION CENTER ON Events and Programs Upcoming Events VIEW CALENDAR Jun 8 2022 - 9:00am PCIV Office Hours with Bhavana Mohanraj [Virtual] 9:00AM to 12:00PM Find out more Jun 15 2022 - 9:00am PCIV Office Hours with Mike Dishowitz [Virtual] 9:00AM to 12:00PM Find out more Jun 22 2022 - 9:00am PCIV Office Hours with Bhavana Mohanraj [Virtual] 9:00AM to 12:00PM Find out more Jun 29 2022 - 9:00am PCIV Office Hours with Mike Dishowitz [Virtual] 9:00AM to 12:00PM Find out more Programs The Pennovation Center, through a collaboration with PCI Ventures and 1776, produces and hosts a robust series of programs, training meetings, and events each month. Our signature events and programs are detailed below. All current event offerings from PCI and other Penn organizations in the Innovation & Entrepreneurship ecosystem can be found online at pci.upenn.edu/event-calendar These are the types of programs you’ll see at the Pennovation Center: Mentor-in-Residence (MIR) Program The Mentor-in-Residence (MIR) Program pairs startup companies with accomplished entrepreneurs and industry leaders who serve as informal advisors. The Mentors participate in the development of PCI Ventures portfolio companies and Pennovation Center members, providing advice on business strategy, market penetration and fundraising. The Mentors also bring with them a wide network of contacts that the companies will be able to leverage. Learn more about the MIR Program and meet the 2021 mentors. Pennovation Accelerator The Pennovation Accelerator invites a cohort of local startups to engage in a six-week virtual program to develop their business strategy and cultivate their network. Cohort companies participate in weekly educational sessions presented by subject matter experts. Each company is paired with an experienced mentor to advise them on their journey. In addition, curated networking opportunities help companies make connections into the larger Philadelphia entrepreneurial community. The Pennovation Accelerator concludes with Pitch Day, where companies pitch to mentors, investors, and peers. Membership at the Center Members are solopreneurs, multi-person startups, freelancers and/or mobile professionals working, collaborating and engaging within Pennovation Center. The space features offices, lab benches, Inventor Garages and coworking desks on two floors and flexible floor plans to fit any budget and workstyle. Some memberships tiers include 24/7 access, allowing tenants to produce their best work during non-traditional hours. You'll be in great company...take a look at a current list of our Member Companies. Learn more about becoming a Pennovation Center Member 2nd floor Pitch Bleacher Benefits Based on your membership level, Pennovation Center members have access to: High quality, ergonomic workstations and furniture Use of conference room & audio and video conferencing Use of the Pitch Bleacher, the Pennovation plaza and other common areas Light Administrative support Mail and package delivery Basic office supplies Gourmet coffee & snacks Purified water Common kitchenette On-site café B&W/color networked printing, scanning, copying and faxing Use of small breakout and phone niches Use of PBX phone system for domestic calls Use of monitors and projectors for presentations Enterprise IT infrastructure with dedicated bandwidth Pricing The following flexible options are available depending on the stage of the concept, invention or company. At the Pennovation Center, members can experience the collaborative energy of open coworking spaces in the heart, create your inventions in our Inventor Garages, conduct research in our state of the art labs, or write and produce your work from the quiet of a private office. Private Offices: $1499–$2499 per month Lab Benches: $999 per month Inventor Garages: $2099 per month Coworking Desks: The Resident: $399 per month Dedicated Desk 24/7 Access 6 hours of conference room time per month Lobby signage Mail/Package delvery Lockable storage Preferred rates for special meetings and events The Coworker: $299 per month Non-Dedicated Desk M-F Access 4 hours of conference room time per month Lobby signage Mail/Package delivery Lockable storage Prefered rates for special meetings and events Mobile Pro: $199 per month Non-Dedicated Desk M-F Access/10 days per month 2 hours of conference room time per month Mobile: $99 per month Non-Dedicated Desk M-F Access/5 days per month Event Rentals Please note: due to COVID-19, we are currently unable to host events at the Center. The Pennovation Center features conference rooms, collaboration zones, and flexible spaces ideal for a variety of professional and social occasions. With support from our network of planning and production professionals, we help members and guests stage corporate events, networking mixers, offsite retreats, workshops, and conferences. Download our Events Brochure to review our available spaces and resources, and fill out the form below to get in touch with our team about hosting an event at the Pennovation Center. We look for events aligned with the Center's mission to support innovation and entrepreneurship. Inquire about hosting your event at the Pennovation Center by emailing Kirsten King at kirsten@76forward.com First floor social space and central bleacher Second floor coworking space and labs Share Back To Top Resources Leasing inquiries, commercialization information, maps & directions Learn More FAQs Want to learn more about us? Read More News in The Works Sign up for Pennovation News Click Here Visit the Pennovation Lab website Download: full Marketing Kit (PDF 5MB) Contact Us: pennovationworks@upenn.edu Renderings by: HWKN and Land Collective All architectural photos: Michael Moran/OTTO © 2020 University of Pennsylvania | www.upenn.edu | Report accessibility issues and get help