Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful hints for completing the FAFSA and CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Costs Types of Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Forms Library Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us ☰ Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process Are you Dependent or Independent? Are you Dependent or Independent? In order to file your financial aid application as an independent student, you must meet one or more of the following criteria: Age 24 by January 1 of the aid year Veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces Currently serving on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces for purposes other than training Graduate or graduate/professional student Married prior to filing and signing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Orphan or ward of the court Legal dependents other than a spouse Emancipated minor or unaccompanied homeless youth If you do not meet the criteria listed above to be considered independent, you must file as a dependent student and include your parents' information. Filing incorrectly as an independent when you're actually a dependent student can seriously delay the processing of your financial aid. If you have questions about your status or have extenuating circumstances, contact your financial aid advisor before filing your FAFSA. The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful Hints Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share