Skip banner navigation Skip to main content Close Navigation Screen Login to myCoyote View the Campus Directory CSUSB Library CSUSB Maps and Directions CSUSB Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift to CSUSB CSUSB Admissions - Global Site Navigation Admissions Overview - Global Site Navigation Apply to CSUSB - Global Site Navigation After I'm Admitted - Global Site Navigation First-year Students - Global Site Navigation Transfer - Global Site Navigation International Students - Global Site Navigation English Language Program - Global Site Navigation Undocumented Student Center - Global Site Navigation Osher Lifelong Learners - Global Site Navigation Military Veterans/Dependents - Global Site Navigation Financial Aid & Scholarships - Global Site Navigation Student Financial Services - Global Site Navigation Summer Session - Global Site Navigation Academics - Global Site Navigation Academic Calendar - Global Site Navigation Academic Advising - Global Site Navigation Degrees & Programs - Global Site Navigation Colleges & Departments - Global Site Navigation Course Catalog / Bulletin - Global Site Navigation Class Schedule - Global Site Navigation Online Programs - Global Site Navigation Academic Success and Undergraduate Advising - Global Site Navigation Graduate Studies - Global Site Navigation Office of the Registrar - Global Site Navigation Academic & Support Resources - Global Site Navigation Academic Research - Global Site Navigation Graduation Initiative 2025 - Global Site Navigation CSUSB Athletics Men's Sports Men's Sports Baseball Men's Sports Basketball Men's Sports Golf Men's Sports Soccer Women's Sports Women's Sports Softball Women's Sports Cheer & Dance Women's Sports Track & Field Women's Sports Cross Country Women's Sports Volleyball Women's Sports Soccer Women's Sports Basketball Campus Life - Global Site Navigation Events Calendar - Global Site Navigation Get Involved - Global Site Navigation Student Services - Global Site Navigation Recreation & Wellness - Global Site Navigation Student Health & Safety - Global Site Navigation Housing & Dining - Global Site Navigation Music & Arts - Global Site Navigation Student Employment - Global Site Navigation Campus Safety & Emergency Info - Global Site Navigation Palm Desert Campus Life - Global Site Navigation About CSUSB - Global Site Navigation Inside CSUSB - Global Site Navigation COVID-19 Campus Map - Global Site Navigation President's Office - Global Site Navigation Shared Governance - Global Site Navigation Strategic Plan 2015-2022 - Global Site Navigation Administrative Divisions - Global Site Navigation Organizational Chart - Global Site Navigation Strategic Communication - Global Site Navigation Mission, Vision & Core Values - Global Site Navigation Accreditation Assessment Site Header Region CSUSB Home We Define the Future Login to myCoyote View the Campus Directory CSUSB Library CSUSB Maps and Directions CSUSB Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift to CSUSB Search CSUSB Search CSUSB CSUSB Main Menu Page Header Student Health Center Page Menu Home Expand Menu Item Home Immunizations Insurance / Eligibility Meet Our Team Appointments Emergencies & After Hours Health Promotion Expand Menu Item Health Promotion Health Promotion Appointments Health Education Workshops Health Education Videos and Resources Meet the Staff Peer Health Educators Student Health Advisory Committee CalFresh Program Basic Needs Health Services Forms & Documents Resources Main Content Region Student Health Center Left Content Because Coyotes Care We're Tobacco Free @ CSUSB Interested in quitting? Call California Smoker's Helpline: 1-800-No-Butts Smoke Free CSUSB Upcoming Events There are no scheduled upcoming events at this time. For information regarding COVID-19, please visit the CSUSB Return of the Pack website and see COVID-19 Vaccination Requirement section below. You are also encouraged to visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website and your County’s Department of Public Health websites for the most current information. Students who feel they are having a medical emergency should immediately call 911. If you have an urgent health or psychiatric need, please go to urgent care or your nearest hospital emergency room. For locations, see the Emergencies and After-Hours information on this website Medical Services The Student Health Center is open and providing in-person and phone/virtual appointments. Call first to schedule an appointment at 909-537-5241. The Student Health Center is unable to accommodate walk-ins at this time. If you here to visit the pharmacy, please see Accessing Pharmacy Services below. 5/20/22: IMPORTANT NOTICE Following County Department of Public Health - Health Orders: Face coverings are still required and should be worn while inside the Student Health Center What to Expect When You Arrive Bring your student ID and face covering to your appointment. Face coverings are required while inside the Student Health Center. If you do not have one, you will be provided with a face covering. Your appointment time is your check-in time; please plan to check in no later than your scheduled appointment time and, if possible, please check in online and complete any online forms before entering the building. The Student Health Center is currently using two entrances for in-person appointments. When your appointment is scheduled, you will be advised which entrance to use. Entrance 1 is at the front of building with the sliding doors. Entrance 2 is the first door around the building to the left (north side). An ADA pathway leads to Entrance 2. A staff member will meet you at your appointment time at Entrance 1 or 2. If you arrive and a staff member is not present, please call 909-537-5241 for notification of arrival. You will be screened for your current temperature and other COVID-19 symptoms before entering. You will be asked to show your student ID and wear your face covering. When you enter the building, you will be directed to sanitize your hands and will be escorted to your exam room to wait for your nurse or provider. At this time, the Student Health Center is limiting visitors to patients with an appointment only. Anyone who arrives with you for your appointment will be asked to wait outside the building until your appointment has been completed. The Student Health Center Staff is committed to serving our students and we welcome your calls at 909-537-5241. If you leave a message, please know that phone messages are retrieved between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday through Thursday, and 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Friday (excluding summer hours and campus holidays). We are closed for lunch Monday through Friday from 12:00 - 1:00 p.m.. Your message will be returned as soon as possible. If you are calling outside of these hours, you may leave a message and your call will be returned the next business day. You may also call (855) 262-5562 after-hours for our nurse advice line. Accessing Pharmacy Services The Student Health Center Pharmacy is open for prescription and over-the-counter medication pick up Monday through Thursday 8:00 a.m. through 4:30 p.m. by appointment only at this time. Please call 909-537-3273 to schedule an appointment. Please note the Pharmacy is closed for lunch from 12:00 - 1:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. If you need a refill of an existing prescription, please request a prescription refill from the Pharmacy through Secure Message through the Patient Portal. If you are no longer in the area, your prescription can be transferred to an outside pharmacy. Some pharmacy services are available remotely by request Prescription Consultation Transfer of Prescriptions Refill to Outside Pharmacy COVID-19 Vaccination Requirement The California State University vaccine requirement that was announced on July 27 will apply to all faculty, students, and staff accessing either the San Bernardino or Palm Desert campuses, or doing university business off-site. This includes all University Auxiliary employees. All faculty, students, and staff are expected to be fully vaccinated and have completed their online self-certification no later than September 20, 2021. To complete the required vaccine self-certification or to document your exemption, students may do so in myCoyote or through the link below: Student COVID-19 Vaccine Self-Certification Mandatory testing at no cost will begin the week of August 16th for students who are reporting to campus and who are not fully vaccinated. Campus community members required to be tested will receive a separate communication regarding how to schedule an on-campus appointment. Students who are fully vaccinated should complete their self-certification as soon as possible to avoid unnecessary COVID-19 testing. Members of the campus community who are not yet fully vaccinated should make an appointment for vaccination at https://myturn.ca.gov as soon as possible. The process to become fully vaccinated can take up to six weeks for the two-dose vaccine, and up to three weeks for the one-dose vaccine. As a reminder, the Daily Health Screen is required for anyone accessing campus facilities. Additional information is available on the Return of the Pack website. This message from COVID-19@CSUSB.EDU serves as the official notification to the university campus community. Please note that some information for faculty and staff was removed as the Student Health Center focuses on serving students. COVID-19 Immunization Appointments For more information regarding COVID-19 immunization appointments for all counties in California please visit: COVID-19 immunization appointments. For a complete list of vaccination locations, please visit the following county websites: San Bernardino County Riverside County To stay up to date with CSUSB’s COVID-19 resources and planning, please visit the CSUSB COVID-19 website. To Clear Immunization Holds: (for COVID-19 vaccination certification, see above) Immunization records can only be accepted by mail or through the Patient Portal at this time. We apologize for the inconvenience, we cannot accept records by fax or e-mail. Federal regulations (HIPAA) prohibit accepting personal, confidential, medical, or immunization documentation through e-mail. Currently enrolled students can upload your immunization records via the Patient Portal. Or send them by mail to: Attn: Student Health Center, CSUSB 5500 University Parkway San Bernardino, CA 92407 Please include your Coyote Identification Number (Coyote ID) with your records. Holds will be cleared once documentation has been received and approved. If you need further assistance, please call: (909) 537-5241. COVID-19 Questions or for Support Regarding COVID-19 The California Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) has launched a free 24/7 Medi-Nurse advice line for COVID-19 symptoms, testing and treatment questions. Please call: (877) 409-9052. This service is open to anyone who does not have insurance, or is a Medi-Cal beneficiary, but does not have a regular doctor or managed care plan to oversee their care. If you are experiencing an increase in stress due to the Coronavirus, the CDC is offering support. Please either call, text, or follow this link to connect with support to help manage stress and anxiety. Call: 1-800-985-5990 Text: TalkWithUs to 66746 SPANISH SPEAKERS: Call: 1-800-985-5990 Text: HABLANOS to 66746 The San Bernardino County Department of Behavioral Health also is providing no-cost mental health support during the COVID-19 outbreak. To speak with specially trained staff who can listen and provide you with support and mental health resources, please call any of the numbers below. Calls are confidential and free of charge and they are available daily from 7:00 am to 10:00 pm. (909) 421-9233 (909) 458-1517 (760) 956-2345 (Dial 7-1-1 for TTY users) The Riverside County Department of Behavioral Health provides 24/7 Mental Health Urgent Care You can also dial them directly for assistance: Riverside: (951) 509-2499 Palm Springs: (442) 268-7000 Perris: (951) 349-4195 The Riverside University Health System – Public Health and Behavioral Health have also provided a reference guide for Coping with Stress During Infectious Disease Outbreaks Mission Statement The CSUSB Student Health Center supports students' academic success by providing high quality accessible health and psychiatric care as well as health education and wellness services in a safe, confidential and compassionate environment. Services We Provide The Student Health Center provides first aid and basic out-patient care services. We have a full time staff Monday through Friday to care for your needs. First aid is always available during clinic hours to anyone on campus. Please dial 911 for emergencies from anywhere on campus for assistance. We are staffed with Doctors, Physician Assistants, Nurse Practitioners, Nurses, Medical Assistants, and a Pharmacy. Our center has contracted with local lab and X-ray services for our students. Our psychiatric services are limited to psychiatric medication evaluation and management. For counseling or therapy services please contact Counseling and Psychological Services. They also have a full time staff of Marriage and Family Therapists, Clinical Social Workers, Psychologists and supervised interns. Health services are also offered at the CSUSB Palm Desert Campus in the R.D. and Joan Dale Hubbard Student Health and Psychological Counseling Center located in HS-119. As an enrolled student at CSUSB, you pay a Student Health Fee and are eligible for health and counseling services at the Student Health Center and Counseling & Psychological Services office. Your Student Health Fee supports and finances the operation of the Health Center. Although basic health care is provided, treatment for major illnesses and injury (e.g., motor vehicle accidents), as well as certain conditions requiring a specialist or hospitalization, are beyond the scope of service. Students are referred to an outside provider for these illnesses or injuries and it is the student's responsibility to pay the costs associated with the referral. It is important to carry health insurance. Faculty and staff are not eligible for services except in case of emergency. Please call ahead to schedule an appointment and with any inquiries you may have. There is no charge for routine office visits Typical types of clinic services offered are listed below. Some charges may apply. Physicals: nursing, sports, teaching, pre-employment Birth control: pill, ring, implant, IUCs, depo Emergency contraception, Sexually Transmitted Infection testing, pap smears Vaccines: Hepatitis B, MMR (Measles, Mumps, Rubella), TDAP (Tetanus, Diphtheria, and Pertussis), flu shots TB skin test: 2 appointments required Patient Rights & Responsibilities The Student Health Center is committed to providing the best possible service to our students. Please take a minute to become more familiar with your Patient Rights and Responsibilities. Privacy Practices We are committed to preserving the privacy of your personal health information. The Student Health Center is a covered entity under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). HIPAA is United States legislation that provides data privacy and security provisions for safeguarding medical information. We are required by Federal regulations and California law to protect the privacy of your medical information and to provide you with this notice: This NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES describes how medical information about you may be used and disclosed and how you get access to this information. Please read it carefully. Concerns or Comments Student concerns may be addressed to: Beth Jaworski, Ph.D., Executive Director of Health, Counseling and Wellness, and sent via e-mail to: Bjaworsk@csusb.edu. A suggestion box is available in the waiting room and the contents addressed per the Quality Improvement committee. A patient satisfaction survey is conducted annually. Trends are analyzed and adjustments made as needed. A patient may appeal to the Title IX director, University Ombuds Services, or the Associate Vice President of Student Affairs. This reporting policy is posted on the patient Rights and Responsibilities poster displayed in the Health Center. Accreditation One of the most important things we do to earn your trust is to participate voluntarily in the quality assessment program of the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC). We have earned AAAHC Accreditation for over 25 years. Our long-standing accreditation tells you that AAAHC's independent team of health care professionals has taken a close look at us and has found that we meet their rigorous, nationally recognized standards for quality health care services. Measles To learn more about the infection and how to avoid catching it, please follow the links and watch the videos below. The single best way to prevent catching the measles is to get vaccinated. The vaccine is safe and effective. If you have questions about the measles or the vaccine, make an appointment to be seen at the Student Health Center, and bring your vaccine record to that appointment or call 909-537-5241. Watch Measles Video in EnglishWatch Measles video in Spanish Measles Infographic (English) Measles Infographic (Spanish) Here's a link to a Measles fact sheet from the Center for Disease Control. Right Content Contact Us Health Appointment Patient Portal Log into Patient Portal to upload immunization records Coyote Connection Contact Us Student Health Center Email coyotehealth@csusb.edu Phone Number (909) 537-5241 Location:HC-101 Office Hours Monday - Wednesday: 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Thursday - Friday: 9:00 am - 5:00 pm Saturday - Sunday: Closed Health Center & Pharmacy Closed for lunch: Monday - Friday 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm Pharmacy Hours Monday - Wednesday 8:00 am - 4:30 pm Thursday - Friday 9:00 am - 4:30 pm Campus Police (24 Hours) (909) 537-7777 or dial 911 from any campus phone. Help Line (Suicide/Crisis Hotline) (951) 686-4357 or (800) 784-2433 After-Hours Nurse Advice Line FoneMed (855) 262-5562 Student identification number is required for services/Advice only, no appts. University Resources University Police Title IX Office CAPS CARE Team Executive Order 1096 Footer Region CSUSB California State University, San Bernardino 5500 University Parkway San Bernardino, CA 92407 +1 (909) 537-5000 Follow Us CSUSB's Facebook CSUSB's Twitter CSUSB's YouTube CSUSB's Instagram CSUSB's LinkedIn CSUSB's Social Media Column 1 Login myCoyote Login Canvas Blackboard Login Student Email Login Faculty & Staff Email Login CSUSB Drupal Login Of Interest to... Future Students Interests Current Students Interests Faculty & Staff Interests Full-Time Faculty Interests Part-Time Faculty Interests Community & Visitors Interests Alumni & Friends Interests University Partners Interests Military/Veterans Interests Column 2 Employment CSUSB Job Listings - CSUSB Faculty Jobs - CSUSB Career Center - CSUSB Human Resources - CSUSB Student Employment - CSUSB Resources Contact CSUSB Clery Act Annual Safety Reports - CSUSB Title IX Notice - CSUSB Disclosure of Consumer Information - CSUSB Column 3 Campus Services Academic Advising - CSUSB Housing & Residential Life - CSUSB Ombuds Services - CSUSB Parking - CSUSB Police - CSUSB Psychological Counseling - CSUSB Services to Students with Disabilities - CSUSB Student Health Center - CSUSB Transcripts - CSUSB Accessibility Privacy and Security Non-Discrimination Notice Website Copyright/DMCA Policy