Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give About Us Student Well-Being Resources 'Canes Care for 'Canes News Give Search About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give Well-Being and Resiliency About Us Give About Us Resources Leadership Staff Support News Give Home Supporting Student Success AAA fa You should be re-directed to another page momentarily. If not, please visit https://everbrighter.miami.edu/school-units/student-affairs/. Supporting Student Success The Division of Student Affairs engages, supports, and develops University of Miami students as active citizens within our diverse and global society. It is through the efforts of Student Affairs that learning extends beyond the classroom to provide students with experiential opportunities to challenge ideas, collaborate with others, and apply their skills to make a difference in their lives and our community. With a philosophy of ’Canes Care for ’Canes, Student Affairs fosters a supportive and inclusive environment where all ’Canes respect and support each other. By generously supporting our many programs, services, and facilities, you are demonstrating that you care about the lasting impact that the college experience has on our students. Butler Center for Service and Leadership Camner Center for Academic Resources Campaign for New Student Housing Counseling Center Donna E. Shalala Student Center Herbert Wellness Center LGBTQ Student Center Multicultural Student Affairs Patricia A. Whitely Emergency Assistance Fund Sandler Center for Alcohol and Other Drug Education Sexual Assault Education Fund Student Activities Greatest Need in Student Affairs Give to Student Affairs Current Priorities Campaign for New Student Housing Patricia A. Whitely Emergency Assistance Fund Student Organizations Nothing impacts the quality of life for students who live on campus more than the quality of their on-campus housing. In keeping with the University’s vision to become an exemplary and excellent institution, it is embarking on a three-phase strategic plan to improve its current housing offerings for students. The first step of this plan, Lakeside Village, is currently under construction and slated to open to students in Fall 2020. More than just a place to sleep, this village deliberately incorporates spaces that allow for peer-to-peer engagement at many levels. From semi-private study nooks and group study lounges to outdoor recreation spaces and dynamic event venues, the Student Housing Village aspires to redefine what it means to live, learn, work and meet at the University of Miami. Give Now The Patricia A. Whitely Emergency Endowment Fund assists University of Miami students who have experienced unforeseen financial hardships due to a catastrophic event in their life. An embodiment of the ‘Canes Care for ‘Canes approach, this fund has helped students receive desperately needed resources when facing emergencies such as unexpected severe changes in their family’s finances, the death of a parent, or even a severe illness or injury. The fund has even provided support to family members who need to be with their student during a health emergency but may not have the financial means to travel to the Miami area. The fund was first established in 2004 with an anonymous lead gift and was then endowed in 2009 due to the generosity of an anonymous donor. It is with the continued support of donors that students who are faced with such life-changing situations are able to continue their education at the University of Miami. Give Now With more than 300 student organizations at the University of Miami, there is no shortage of opportunities for students to get engaged in the vibrancy of campus life. These student organizations span an array of interest areas and provide UM students the ability to explore areas of academic and social interest, gain invaluable life skills, and connect with their fellow 'Canes. They help promote a culture of engagement on campus, where students are given opportunities to add value to the campus community. Donations made to these student groups will ensure that they are able to continue their support of their own initiatives as well as the advocacy and support of the initiatives of other student groups on campus. Give Now University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Division of Student Affairs 1252 Memorial Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4922 305-284-4922 vpsa@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices