Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal NRHH Of The Month Awards What are OTMs? Of The Month (OTM) is a month-specific award to recognize outstanding members or programs within the student housing community at Cal State Fullerton. These awards are written by residents, like you, to recognize their peers, RAs, Professional Staff and community programs. Campus OTM recipients are submitted for possible regional and national recognition by NRHH. Who are the people behind OTM’s? The OTM process is facilitated by NRHH, a student organization of residents interested in community service, recognition, and leadership. When you submit your nomination, NRHH will recognize those who have impacted the Housing community and have accomplished great things around the Student Housing community each month. What does the nomination application consist of? The application includes your information and the person you will be nominating. You can submit up to 600 words on why they deserve the nomination. The essay should focus on the great things the individual has done throughout that month or why the program was so great. Make sure to be very specific and brag about the individual/program you are nominating. How to submit an OTM There are two methods to submit an OTM Nomination: For general recognition, use the General OTM form . For program recognition, use the Program OTM form . OTM Categories General OTMs Program OTMs Advisor Community Service Program Custodial or Maintenance employee Diversity Program Executive Board Member Educational Program First-year Student Social Program National Communications Coordinator Organization Residence Life Professional Staff Resident Advisor Residential Community Spotlight Student This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.