Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Public Health Research Day 2022 Public Health Research Day Poster Session Tuesday April 5, 2022 Crystal Room, Alumnae Hall 1:30 - 3:30 p.m. – Poster Session Public Health Research Day is an annual conference hosted by Brown University’s School of Public Health highlighting the research accomplishments of our students, trainees, and partners. One of several events held to commemorate National Public Health Week, April 4-10, 2022, the poster session encourages interaction among members of the greater Brown community and external partners. The conference, held in the Crystal Room of Alumnae Hall, will begin at 1:30 pm and the awards committee will begin reviewing posters at that time. Visitors are encouraged to discuss posters with students, fellows, staff, faculty and affiliates. We anticipate there being approximately 70 posters. Call for Abstracts This call for abstracts includes two categories of posters: Scientific Presentation posters featuring research relevant to public health issues is the form used by students and most faculty and researchers at Brown; Health Data Posters aimed at publicizing data sets available from Brown, the Department of Health, and other organizations is the form utilized by RI DoH presenters and others who are publicizing data sets. Timeline All Brown University students and trainees are invited to present public health research posters. In order to have your poster abstract considered, you must complete the online submission form by Tuesday, March 1st at midnight. Public Health faculty will review abstracts and make selections for presentation at the conference. Authors will be notified by Wednesday, March 16, 2022. Accepted posters must then be submitted as PDFs by Wednesday, March 23, 2022. Posters will be printed and authors will be notified when they can pick them up for presentation at Research Day. Please find information on poster printing and accessing the School of Public Health poster template. Posters will be reviewed by a panel of judges. Prizes will be awarded for posters judged to be the best in the following categories: undergraduate student master’s student doctoral student postdoctoral trainee Questions? Contact [email protected]. We hope you’ll join us for Public Health Research Day! Student Resources Community Support and Wellness Graduate Student Council Public Health Advisory Council Specialist Librarians Student Travel Funding Student Profiles Orientation and Information for New Graduate Students Public Health Research Day Poster Printing National Public Health Week events School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top