Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search Creating visionary artists, scholars and innovators Meadows School of the Arts SMU Meadows School of the Arts is a leading force in Dallas and beyond for artistic and creative expression. No other school in the country brings together Meadows School’s diverse array of academic disciplines for the visual, performing and communication arts with centers that focus on national arts research and community practice, as well as a museum elevating knowledge and understanding of Spanish art. Also in SMU Meadows School of the Arts SMU Fund for Meadows Scholarships Owen Arts Center transformation Meadows Museum SMU DataArts SMU Fund for Meadows Gifts to the SMU Fund for Meadows empower the future of art education and creative innovation by powering our immediate priorities and most pressing needs. Your commitment to the Meadows School for the Arts leaves a lasting impact on students, artists and the future of our school by fueling new initiatives, research opportunities, merit- and need-based scholarships and educational and artistic programming. Make a Gift 837f7i-xfWQ Video Transforming the Owen Arts Center Meadows School is blazing new paths in arts education by renovating the Owen Arts Center, the largest academic building on campus and one of Dallas’ top arts and cultural institutions. Phase One is a $34 million redesign that will modernize and improve the academic spaces in the north wing for visual arts, art history and creative computation while transforming exterior entrances into grand, welcoming and accessible spaces. The improvements will serve as a catalyst for Meadows School to attract the next generation of talented and diverse students, scholars and visitors from across the region and around the world. Learn more Student empowerment With your partnership, Meadows School can attract and retain the best and the brightest – from around the corner to across the globe – who elevate the level of academic and creative discourse throughout the campus. Your gift can ignite: Meadows Scholars Program To compete nationally for the most talented and academically gifted undergraduate students. Meadows Impact Scholarship Fund To support promising undergraduate and graduate students, including those from underrepresented populations, who enhance our vibrant creative community. Graduate scholarships and fellowships To create incentives for outstanding candidates pursuing advanced studies and research. Planned giving at Meadows Including Meadows in your estate planning accomplishes multiple objectives. Not only will it secure your legacy with the school, but a properly constructed planned gift can provide tax and wealth transfer options that benefit you and your family now and in the future. To learn more, click the button below or contact the Office of Gift Planning at plannedgiving@smu.edu or 214-768-1911. PLAN YOUR GIFT Meadows School can attract and retain the best and the brightest – from around the corner to across the globe – who elevate the level of academic and creative discourse throughout the campus. Meadows’ centers for creativity, research and engagement Meadows Museum The Meadows Museum is a leading center in the United States for exhibition, research and education in the arts and culture of Spain. Donations and memberships help the museum present major exhibitions, provide enriching educational opportunities for thousands of area schoolchildren and expand accessible and inclusive programming. Acquisitions elevate SMU’s place on the international art stage, with gifts matched dollar-for-dollar by The Meadows Foundation. SMU DataArts Discover SMU DataArts, a breakthrough resource for the arts and cultural sector. This unprecedented data and research hub collects, integrates and analyzes data on thousands of nonprofit arts organizations across the country and develops tools that empower arts leaders to make better-informed decisions for individual arts organizations and for the sector as a whole. Meadows has expanded my horizons as a musician, opening doors to many new opportunities, and providing the skills necessary to pursue a successful artistic career. — Faith Fang ’22, Meadows Scholar, B.A. in music, violin and B.S. in mechanical engineering SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow As the premier private university in North Texas, SMU exists to shape future leaders who transform communities and organizations through ingenuity and thoughtful problem-solving. Building on our history of excellence, we have launched SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow – our multiyear, $1.5 billion campaign to attract and support outstanding students and faculty, to explore new fields and cutting-edge technologies, and to positively impact Dallas and the world beyond. We invite you to join us and empower the bold, the curious and the creative to better their professions and their communities. Spark a movement Development and External Affairs Meadows School of the Arts meadowsgiving@smu.edu or 214-768-4153 Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search