Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Giving Ways to Give Your gifts at work Give now Menu Search SMU Giving Ways to give Giving Societies At SMU, our appreciation of annual donations cannot be overstated. The support and generosity of the Mustang community strengthens all that makes SMU great and touches lives across campus. In short, SMU would not be all that it is today without our donors’ continued support, so we are pleased to honor them with membership in three different giving societies that recognize both loyalty and leadership giving. On This Page Hilltop Society President's Associates Dallas Hall Mustang Club Hilltop Society Inspired by the spot on which Dallas Hall stands, SMU’s Hilltop Society recognizes SMU’s most loyal donors, with two or more consecutive fiscal years of giving to any area of SMU. Hilltop Society members collectively help build SMU’s financial foundation through consistent yearly giving. Members enjoy exclusive opportunities to engage with SMU, including special announcements and invitations, featured online content and more. Give Now Contact info Alex Stoops astoops@smu.edu 214-768-3061 President’s Associates Each year SMU gratefully recognizes its President’s Associates, a select group of SMU supporters who contribute $1,000 or more in current-use gifts to the University during SMU’s fiscal year. Current-use gifts provide an immediate impact across all areas of university life – from funding scholarships and groundbreaking faculty research to enhancing the campus experience – building the foundation from which SMU can launch even more ambitious efforts to shape world changers. President’s Associates enjoy exclusive, leadership-level opportunities to engage with SMU, including special announcements and invitations, featured online content and more. Give Now Contact info Alex Stoops astoops@smu.edu 214-768-3061 Dallas Hall Society The Dallas Hall Society recognizes the generosity and foresight of those who are securing SMU’s future through planned gifts. Dallas Hall Society members are committed to making SMU academically strong and financially sound, now and for years to come. Planned gifts have an enormous and lasting impact on SMU, creating a legacy for students for generations to come. How to qualify Interested in supporting SMU for life? Here’s how you can help: Include SMU as a beneficiary in their will or living trust Name SMU as a beneficiary of a life insurance policy or retirement plan Name SMU as a beneficiary of a life income gift (a remainder trust, a gift annuity or a lead trust) Make a gift of a personal residence or farm to SMU, with life estate reserved In appreciation of your support SMU honors Dallas Hall Society members with a limited-edition print of an original painting of Dallas Hall and a certificate of membership. Members are encouraged to stay involved with SMU and are invited to special events on campus. Give Now Contact info donorrelations@smu.edu 214-768-4071 Mustang Club Your gift to the Mustang Club helps SMU Athletics provide our 424 student-athletes in 17 varsity sports with the resources they need to succeed at a world-class university and bring honor and recognition to SMU. Mustang Club supply provide our student-athletes with academic support services, room and board expenses, top-of-the-line equipment, travel opportunities, health care, and much more. Thank you for partnering with the Mustang Club in Shaping Champions at SMU. Give Now Contact info Josh Whittenburg jwhittenburg@smu.edu 214-768-3315 Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Impact Your gifts at work Annual Report Alumni Giving Parent Giving Student Giving Faculty and Staff Giving Recognition Giving Societies SMU Ignited Gifts Donor Spotlights Resources Why support SMU Ways to Give Frequently Asked Questions Contact us Office of Donor Relations Give now Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search