Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About Student Checklists About Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Student Checklists The following student checklists have been compiled for your convenience. First-year undergraduate students and transfer undergraduate students, in particular, should access the linked resources below before arriving on campus. For additional information about orientation or advising, contact the Office of First Year Experience or the Academic Advising Center, respectively. Academic Planning Workbook Boston College University Catalog University Notices and Disclosures Registration for First-Year Students First-Year Undergraduate Students Returning Undergraduate Students Transfer Undergraduate Students Incoming Graduate Students and Woods College Students Incoming Law Students The Office of Student Services would like to extend a warm welcome to you and your family! There are a number of things you need to do now that you have matriculated. Begin by logging into bc.edu/myservices to complete the services listed below. Note: These services are only available to deposited first-year students unless otherwise noted. Pre-August Checklist Update your addresses, phone numbers, and emergency contacts Set your Privacy Preferences View or update your race/ethnicity information Sign up for payment plan (if applicable) Authorize your Third-Party Payer(s) through My Bill Note: You will need to log into bc.edu/myservices and select My Bill for this service Waive the mandatory Medical Insurance, if applicable. Visit bc.edu/myservices, and select "Medical Insurance" under the "Account and Personal Info" section. Complete the mandatory Health History and Immunization Forms Review/Add Optional Eagle One accounts Review the Title IV Federal Financial Aid Funds requirements and submit your Federal Funds Authorization If you have questions that cannot wait until Orientation, feel free to call the Office of Student Services at 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294, or send us an email to studentservices@bc.edu. The Office of Student Services would like to extend a warm welcome back! Note: You will need to log into bc.edu/myservices to complete these services. Please complete the following items before classes begin. If your ID is lost or stolen, deactivate and request replacement ID View and update your address, phone number, and emergency contact Check your class schedule and classroom assignment Review and pay any balances remaining on your My Bill account Note: You will need to log into bc.edu/myservices and select My Bill for this service Review the Title IV Federal Financial Aid Funds requirements and submit your Federal Funds Authorization Sign up for direct deposit of your student account refund, if you have not done so previously Waive mandatory medical insurance, if applicable. Visit bc.edu/myservices and select "Update Medical Insurance." Check the status of your financial aid application Verify or update privacy preferences Verify or authorize your Third-Party Payer through My Bill Note: You will need to log into bc.edu/myservices and select My Bill for this service Review/add optional Eagle One accounts The Office of Student Services would like to extend a warm welcome to you and your family! There are a number of things you need to do now that you have matriculated. Begin by logging into bc.edu/myservices to complete the services listed below. Please complete the following items before classes begin. Set your Privacy Preferences Upload your photograph for your Eagle One Card. Visit bc.edu/myservices and select "Eagle One Card Photo Upload" under the 'other services' area of the My Services page. Follow the links to upload your photo. View and update your address, phone number, and emergency contact Authorize your Third-Party Payer through My Bill Note: You will need to log into bc.edu/myservices and select My Bill for this service Waive the mandatory Medical Insurance, if applicable. Visit bc.edu/myservices, and select "Medical Insurance" under the "Account and Personal Info" section. Complete the mandatory Health History and Immunization Forms Review/Add Optional Eagle One accounts Review the Title IV Federal Financial Aid Funds requirements and submit your Federal Funds Authorization Bring your original documents for Student Employment with you to school in the fall. If you have questions, please call the Office of Student Services at 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294, or send us an email to studentservices@bc.edu. Welcome to Boston College! There are a number of things you need to do now that you have matriculated. Note: You will need to log into bc.edu/myservices to complete the services listed below (unless otherwise noted). Please complete the following items before classes begin. Set Your Privacy Preferences Apply for an Eagle One (ID) Card All new students are required to have and will be charged for an ID card. Order a Parking Permit Read the Student Parking Permit Instructions on the Transportation website. You may order your parking permit by logging into Agora Portal and selecting "Parking Permits and Citations." Purchase an MBTA pass Consult Tuition and Fees Review and pay any balances remaining on your My Bill account Note: You will need to log into bc.edu/myservices and select My Bill for this service Make an International Wire Payment Enroll in the Boston College Payment Plan Authorize your Third-Party Payer through My Bill Note: You will need to log into bc.edu/myservices and select My Bill for this service Review/Add Optional Eagle One accounts Visit the Dining website for more information about optional dining accounts Review the Title IV Federal Financial Aid Funds requirements and submit your Federal Funds Authorization (optional) Sign up for direct deposit of your student account refund Waive mandatory medical insurance, if applicable. Waivers for the 2022–2023 academic year will be available in June. You do not need to waive insurance for the summer semester. Visit bc.edu/myservices and select "Medical Insurance Waiver." Complete the mandatory Immunization Forms In compliance with Massachusetts law, all incoming graduate students are required to complete a new online module on Title IX sexual misconduct. The deadline for completion of this module is August 30, 2021. Please refer to July 29–30 emails from the University's Student Affairs Title IX Coordinator for details on how to log in and complete the module. Review information about off-campus housing Learn more about your BC Gmail account Update your addresses, phone numbers, and emergency contacts View or update your race/ethnicity information Note veteran status on the University Information System (optional/if applicable) Contact Linda Malenfant at malenfan@bc.edu Register for classes Register to vote Welcome to Boston College Law School! There are a number of things you need to do now that you have matriculated. Note: You will need to log into bc.edu/myservices to complete the services listed below (unless otherwise noted). Please complete the following items before classes begin. Set Your Privacy Preferences Apply for an Eagle One (ID) Card All new students are required to have and will be charged for an ID card. If you will be bringing a car to campus, you will need to order a parking permit. Read the Student Parking Permit Instructions on the Transportation website. You may order your parking permit by logging into Agora Portal and selecting "Parking Permits and Citations." If you would like to order an MBTA pass, visit the MBTA web page. Consult Tuition and Fees Review and pay any balances remaining on your My Bill account. Note: You will need to log into bc.edu/myservices and select My Bill for this service Make an International Wire Payment Enroll in the QuikPay Payment Plan Authorize your Third-Party Payer through My Bill Note: You will need to log into bc.edu/myservices and select My Bill for this service Review/Add Optional Eagle One accounts Visit the Dining website for more information about optional dining accounts Review the Title IV Federal Financial Aid Funds requirements and submit your Federal Funds Authorization (optional) Sign up for direct deposit of your student account refund/request a student account refund. The first date students are able to receive a refund via direct deposit for the fall semester is September 1, 2021. Request enrollment certification letter Waive mandatory medical insurance, if applicable. Visit bc.edu/myservices and select "Update Medical Insurance." Information regarding the 2021–2022 plan summary, including costs, is available on the Medical Insurance web page. Complete the mandatory Immunization Forms In compliance with Massachusetts law, all incoming graduate students are required to complete a new online module on Title IX sexual misconduct. The deadline for completion of this module is August 30, 2021. Please refer to July 29–30 emails from the University's Student Affairs Title IX Coordinator for details on how to log in and complete the module. Review information about off-campus housing Learn more about your BC Gmail account Update your addresses, phone numbers, and emergency contacts View or update your race/ethnicity information Note veteran status on the University Information System (optional/if applicable) by contacting Linda Malenfant at malenfan@bc.edu. For more information about veterans' education benefits, visit the Veterans Education Benefits web page on the Financial Aid website. The Law School’s Office of Academic Services will complete your registration for fall semester first-year courses Register to vote Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College