UH Home Maps IT Help A-Z Index AccessUH HOME Home Students Faculty Careers Alumni Email Printers About Welcome Administration Mission Why Choose Rankings Maps & Directions Employment Opportunities at UHLC UHLC Icons Law Center History J.D. Brochure LL.M. Brochure UHLC Brochure UH Law Center One Pager Admissions J.D. Admitted Students Transfer Applicants Visiting Student Applicants LL.M. LL.M. Admitted Students Joint J.D./LL.M .Program EAL Certificate Course Faculty Students Student Honor Code Student Handbook Course Schedule OSS Staff OSS Forms Scholarships and Financial Aid LL.M. Graduation Class Standing Information Alumni Upcoming Events Law Building Campaign Annual Law Gala & Auction Alumni Awards Giving Opportunities Alumni News & Highlights Resources & Organizations Continuing Legal Education Update Contact Info Contact Us Library UH Library Catalog Full Library Operating Hours 24/7 Library Access Texas Ethics Reporter Albertus Accolades Library Sitemap News & Events Top Stories The Lex Dean's Note Academic Calendar Event Calendar Law Center Event Planner Law Center Room Schedule Briefcase Magazine Briefcase Radio Lecture Archive UHLC in the News UHLC Gallery For the Media News Archive Academics Degrees Offered Learn Abroad Opportunities Clinics & Skills Training Externship Programs Centers, Institutes, and Select Programs Journals and Publications Order of the Coif UHLC Pre-Law Pipeline Program Giving Give Online Opportunities Resources & FAQs Ways to Give Contact Us AccessUH Students Faculty Career Development Office Alumni Email About Admissions Library News & Events Academics Giving Apply Now ABA Required Disclosures CLE Contact For the Media Class Schedule Career Development Office Students Alumni Employers Meet the Staff CDO Past Events Quick Links Events Calendar Make an Appointment Symplicity Employment Statistics Hours: M-F 8am-5pm Career Development Office 4104 Martin Luther King Blvd Bates Law Building, Suite 8 Houston, Texas 77204-6060 Phone: 713-743-2090 Fax: 713-743-2091 lawcareer@uh.edu Career Development Menu ☰ Students Alumni Employers Meet the Staff CDO Past Events Quick Links Events Calendar Make an Appointment Symplicity Employment Statistics Hours: MWThF 8am-5pm Tuesday 8am-5pm Career Development Office 4604 Calhoun Road Bates Law Building, Suite 8 Houston, Texas 77204-6054 Phone: 713-743-2090 Fax: 713-743-2091 lawcareer@uh.edu Employers learn more about recruiting UHLC Students Make an Appointment with your Counselor Stay up to date wth what's happening in the CDO ❮ ❯ Welcome to the Career Development Office The Career Development Office (CDO) offers a full range of resources and services to assist both students and employers in achieving their goals. Our primary mission is to equip students and graduates with the resources and skills to successfully generate and take advantage of professional opportunities. In support of this mission, the CDO guides students and alumni in the use of tools and strategies for successful job searches. The cornerstone of our service is our one-on-one career advising. We also assist employers in identifying and recruiting talented students and alumni to fulfill their employment needs. We provide a number of opportunities for employers to connect with our students, including career panels, networking events, workshops, mock interviews, job fairs, recruitment programs, and an electronic job bank. With our in-depth knowledge of the student and alumni population, the CDO can guide employers to the right candidate for their organization. Whether you are looking for a job or seeking employees, the CDO is here to help, so please don’t hesitate to reach out if the CDO can assist you in any way. Alumni Spotlight UH Law Center LL.M. alum Smith ’20 lands opportunity with international insurance organization May 24, 2021 – With no shortage of educational and practical experience in his legal career, Stager Clay Smith faced a unique challenge in the job market shortly after obtaining an LL.M. with a focus in health law from the University of Houston Law Center in 2020. Summer Virtual Career Chat Series How to Crush it at OCI UH Law Center alumni hiring partners share tips on how to make the best impression during OCI as part of the Career Development Office Summer Career Chat Series Appointments The Career Development Office is currently providing all services remotely to current and prospective students, alumni, and employers. We remain available to assist via phone, email, and virtual platforms during normal business hours. We look forward to working with you. Career Development Office 4104 Martin Luther King Blvd Bates Law Building, Suite 8 Houston, Texas 77204-6060 Phone: 713-743-2090 Fax: 713-743-2091 lawcareer@uh.edu 4104 Martin Luther King Blvd Houston, TX 77204-6060 713-743-2100 General 713-743-2094 Legal Clinics A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Careers at UHLC Class Schedule UHLC Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources The Lex Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of Equal Opportunities Service Open Records/Public Information Act Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston Law Center. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies