Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs UofM Global Degrees Computing Professions Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate Degrees Business Computing Health Professions Humanities Social Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate Degrees Arts Business Computing Education Engineering Health Professions Humanities Liberal Studies Social Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Computing Undergraduate Programs Business Information and Technology The BBA degree with a concentration in Business and Information and Technology (BIT) at the University of Memphis is offered fully online by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. This degree requires 120 hours to complete and can include transfer of credit earned at other institutions. Learn More Graduate Certificate Graduate Certificate in Data Science Earn training in the important aspects of the rapidly emerging area of Data Science. With large volumes of data being generated every day from multiple sources (including business data, biomedical data, educational data, science data, engineering data, and personal data), the importance of systematic and rigorous approaches to understanding and putting these large volumes of data to good use is now well recognized. Graduates of this program are required to take two core courses in data science, and can choose two other elective courses. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity & Information Assurance Earn a Cybersecurity & Information Assurance Graduate Certificate with only four courses. Courses may also be used toward a graduate degree. Now available fully online! Learn More About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 6/1/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.