By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Campus Map Additional Campuses More from this Section South Campus Additional Campuses Whether it's at our iconic campus in the heart of Central New York, in world-class cities across the U.S., or through Syracuse Abroad programs in more than 60 countries, your Syracuse University classroom spans the globe. Downtown Syracuse and the Warehouse Downtown Syracuse is home to the Nancy Cantor Warehouse —the University’s academic and community facility on the city's Near West Side. The Warehouse is—as the name suggests—a repurposed warehouse, renovated to house design studios, VPA's School of Design, the Division of Marketing and Communications, the Office of Community Engagement and downtown venues for public lectures and exhibitions. Syracuse University's main campus connects with downtown Syracuse via the Connective Corridor —a signature strip of streetscapes, bike paths, public art and free public transportation. Syracuse University Across the Country Syracuse University maintains several satellite admissions offices around the country for the convenience of prospective students and alumni. Students have the opportunity to meet Syracuse representatives at the regional offices for information sessions, personal interviews, portfolio review and auditions, and admitted student programs. Syracuse University in New York City Alumni events, industry discussion panels, classes and auditions all take place here, along with exhibitions in the Palitz Gallery, Syracuse's New York art space. Syracuse University in DC Syracuse University maintains a robust academic, research and scholarship presence in Washington, D.C., through the Maxwell School’s flagship programs for both undergraduate and graduate students, along with semester-long courses and immersion programs offered by the Newhouse School, the College of Law, the Institute for Veterans and Military Families and other academic partners. Syracuse University in LA Los Angeles is the University’s home on the West Coast. From the SULA Semester to week-long trips to LA’s entertainment and media empires, students get an intense, unvarnished look at what it takes to succeed in their chosen field. Study Abroad Campuses Syracuse Abroad offers unforgettable learning opportunities in 60 countries and operates overseas centers in Central Europe ; Florence, Italy ; London, England ; Madrid, Spain ; Santiago, Chile and Strasbourg, France . Related Pages Connective Corridor The Corridor creates a connection between the City and University, making it easier for students to access downtown activities. Admissions Events in Your Area Join us for an information session, personal interview, or admitted students program at one of our satellite locations. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy