Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Degree Programs M.D. Program Admission & Aid M.D.-Ph.D. Program Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors School of Medicine Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Medicine Academics School of Medicine Degree Programs Academics M.D. Program Admission & Aid M.D.-Ph.D. Program Research Research Centers and Institutes Kansas Center for Rural Health Research Cores Training Research News Patient Care Patient Care Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education Campuses Campuses Kansas City Salina Wichita Related Links: Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Campus Life Outreach Outreach K-12 Programs Prospective Student Programs Current Student Programs Related Links: Diversity and Inclusion Premedical Programs Health Care Pipeline Programs Rural Medical Education About About Leadership Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Policies & Procedures Campus Life History Accreditation Maps & Directions KU Medicine Magazine Faculty Affairs & Development Make a Gift M.D. Program As an award-winning, top-ranked medical school, the University of Kansas School of Medicine is educating physicians who are ready to respond to tomorrow's health care challenges. Admission & Aid Why consider the KU School of Medicine when selecting an academic medical program? A dedication to the school's primary mission of education, research, clinical care and outreach. A leader in addressing the national shortage of primary-care doctors, especially in rural areas and for underserved populations. An award-winning, top-ranked medical school for doctors destined for family medicine. An emerging pacesetter in biomedical research, rising quickly with exponential growth in national competitive grants. A commitment to resources needed to succeed, including the addition of nearly 250 faculty members and crucial investments in technology. A philosophy and practice of attracting, training and celebrating a diverse student body. Established partnerships with hospitals and clinics throughout the region that support students' hands-on experience in diagnosis and clinical care. Degree Programs These programs are available through the KU School of Medicine: Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) program The four-year curriculum of courses, clerkships and electives leads to the degree of Doctor of Medicine. M.D./MPH If you're interested in public health, community medicine, occupational medicine or health care administration, consider the combined Doctor of Medicine and Master of Public Health (M.D./MPH). You'll be prepared for a career that values both medical expertise and public outreach in the public or private sector. M.D./Ph.D. Eager to merge your passions for both medicine and research? Consider the combined M.D./Ph.D. program. Upon graduation, you'll have the credentials for a career in academic medicine and biomedical research at a major academic medical center. Opportunities also exist in governmental agencies or private research facilities. M.D./MHSA Administrative skills pair well with medical knowledge, especially as health care becomes more complex and competitive. A degree that combines a Master of Health Services Administration with a Doctor of Medicine (M.D./MHSA) serves you well in a career as a physician or health care executive. Interdisciplinary Graduate Program (IGPBS) Interested in becoming a biomedical researcher? The Interdisciplinary Graduate Program in Biomedical Sciences (IGPBS) offers graduate students opportunities to study and conduct research in: Anatomy Biochemistry Microbiology Pathology Pharmacology/Toxicology Physiology Neuroscience KU School of Medicine University of Kansas Medical Center School of Medicine 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-5000 KU Medical Center School of Health Professions School of Nursing Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.