Skip to main content More: Admissions Alumni & Support Career Services Current Students Library + See all - Hide Search Main navigation About About Overall info Dean @ Marshall Leadership Leadership Overall info Dean’s Cabinet Board of Councilors Board of Leaders Corporate Advisory Board Marshall Volunteer Leadership Council Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Marshall History Commencement Support Marshall Support Marshall Overall info Office of External Relations Dean’s Report Contact Us Contact Us Overall info Employee Emergency Marshall Online Learning Open Expression Statement Strategic Plan Programs Programs No matter your timetable or goals, Marshall has a program that works for you. Programs Overview Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Our undergraduate programs in business and accounting rank among the nation’s best. Undergraduate Programs Overview A Degree of Difference Academics Business Emphases Career Focus Global Opportunities Student Life Undergraduate Admissions MBA Programs MBA Programs USC Marshall's top-ranked MBA programs attract students from across the globe for a hands-on graduate business education that translates to professional success. MBA Programs Overview Full Time MBA Executive MBA Program Part Time MBA One-Year, Mid-Career IBEAR MBA Online MBA Specialized Masters Programs Specialized Masters Programs Master your destiny at Marshall. Specialized Masters Programs Overview Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Entrepreneurship and Innovation Master of Science in Finance Master of Science in Marketing Master of Science in Social Entrepreneurship Master of Science in Global Supply Chain Management Master of Business for Veterans Master of Management Studies Master of Science in Business Administration Master of Food Industry Leadership Accounting Masters Programs Accounting Masters Programs Take your accounting career to the next level. Accounting Masters Programs Overview Master of Accounting Master of Accounting with Emphasis in Data and Analytics Master of Business Taxation Master of Business Taxation for Working Professionals Online Degree Programs Online Degree Programs Marshall offers a 24/7 connection to your future. Online Degree Programs Overview Master of Business Taxation for Working Professionals Master of Science of Global Supply Chain Management USC Marshall Online MBA (OMBA) PhD Program Certificate Programs Certificate Programs Marshall brings you certified success. Certificate Programs Overview Graduate Certificate in Business Analytics Graduate Certificate in Financial Analysis and Valuation Graduate Certificate in Management Studies Graduate Certificate in Marketing Graduate Certificate in Optimization and Supply Chain Management Graduate Certificate in Strategy and Management Consulting Graduate Certificate in Sustainability and Business Graduate Certificate in Technology Commercialization Food Industry Management Program Graduate Certificate in Library and Information Management – Online With Your Shield Executive Education Programs Graduate Programs Experiential Learning Center Departments Departments At Marshall, we offer depth of knowledge and breadth of expertise. Departments Overview Data Sciences and Operations Finance and Business Economics Leventhal School of Accounting Leventhal School of Accounting Overall info About Academic Programs Faculty Leventhal Conferences Student Resources Staff Contact Us Business Communication Management and Organization Marketing Lloyd Greif Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Faculty & Research Faculty & Research USC Marshall faculty are award-winning scholars who publish cutting-edge research. Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Resources Faculty Positions Recent Publications Research Fair Centers of Excellence Centers of Excellence Centers Overview Brittingham Social Enterprise Lab Center for Effective Organizations The Global Branding Center Center for Global Innovation The Randall R. Kendrick Global Supply Chain Institute Center for Investment Studies Neely Center for Ethical Leadership and Decision Making Ph.D. Students Institute for Outlier Research in Business Research@USCMarshall USC Marshall Seminar Calendar Labs and Institutes Labs and Institutes Overall info Marshall Behavioral Research Lab USC Marshall China Research Group Tommy Talks Critical Thinking Initiative Funding and Managing your Research USC Initiative on Digital Competition News & Events News & Events Across business disciplines, Marshall makes the news. News & Events Overview Events News Blogs Podcasts Business in the News at USC Marshall Webinar Series Second navigation Directory More: Admissions Alumni & Support Career Services Current Students Library MAcc Designated as STEM Program As of Fall 2020, USC's Master of Accounting (MAcc) is designated as a STEM program. Any student graduating December 2020 and onwards will be able to take advantage of the additional 24 months of OPT. Double Trojan Endows Chair James R. Parks ’72, MBT ’75 continues generous support of USC Leventhal with $3 million gift Article Pandemics & Stock Prices In the most recent Tommy Talks, Leventhal Professor Richard Sloan shares his insights on Pandemics and Stock Prices Pandemics & Stock Prices Professor Chrislynn Freed This past summer, Chrislynn Freed, professor of clinical accounting at USC Leventhal, was named CalCPA Education Foundation President. Read More Professor Patricia Dechow Marshall and Leventhal Professor Patricia Dechow received the 2020 FARS Distinguished Ph.D. Mentoring Award. Read More Professor Ruben Davila This past summer, Professor Ruben Davila was appointed Vice Chair of NASBA’s Examination Review Board (ERB). Read More Leventhal Faculty Faculty Leventhal School of Accounting Leventhal School of Accounting Leventhal School of Accounting Leventhal School of Accounting Home Departments Leventhal School of Accounting Share this page: Leventhal By-the-Numbers 88% Undergraduate students have full-time offers upon graduation #2 ranked graduate program in the US by TFE Times 90% Graduate students have full-time offers upon graduation 60% International graduate students have full-time offers upon graduation About Leventhal School of Accounting The quality of our people is what makes the Leventhal School of Accounting an innovator in the areas of accounting education and critical research. Our faculty have designed educational programs structured to develop in each graduate the potential for career advancement into the highest levels of professional accounting and management. We are committed to creating knowledge and disseminating it through leading academic and professional journals and symposia. Our students have the capability and motivation to succeed in a rigorous educational environment at undergraduate, masters, and doctoral program levels. Academic Programs USC Leventhal’s programs are widely recognized in the top tier of accounting education worldwide. In fact, Leventhal is the only private university accounting program to be consistently recognized as excellent in all facets of accounting education. Our undergraduate program is ranked 4th by U.S. News & World Report and 7th by Public Accounting Report. Public Accounting Report also ranks our Master of Accounting program fourth and Ph.D. program 10th. Undergraduate Program Risk Management Program Master's Program Ph.D. Program The People At Leventhal The success at Leventhal isn't just a bunch of rankings and test scores. The people -- the student organizations, the faculty, and the staff -- come together and create a culture conducive to the success of our students' education. Student Orgs Faculty Staff Section Menu About Leventhal Gift Board of Advisors Leventhal Recent Alumni Board USC Leventhal News & Events Academic Programs Undergraduate Program Student Organizations Master's Programs Ph.D. Program Risk Management Program Faculty AAER Dataset Publications Seminars Review of Accounting Studies Faculty Positions Leventhal Conferences USC SEC Conference Conference on Emerging Technologies in Accounting and Financial Economics Cyber Risk Management Webinar Student Resources Staff Contact Us Contact Leventhal School of Accounting University Park Campus Interactive Map Follow Us Leventhal School of Accounting ACC 101, mc 0441 3660 Trousdale Parkway University of Southern California Los Angeles, CA 90089-0441 Additional Contact Information 213.740.4838 University Park Campus Interactive Map ACC100@marshall.usc.edu USC Marshall School of Business: 3670 Trousdale Pkwy, Los Angeles, CA 90089, United States Map Full Directory Footer navigation About Alumni Association For Journalists Marshall in the News Support Marshall USC IT Help Subscribe to Marshall Monthly MyMarshall Intranet Notice of Non-discrimination Visit Us On Social Media Twitter Profile Facebook Profile LinkedIn Profile Instagram Profile We use cookies and similar technologies to understand our visitors experiences. By continuing to use this website, you agree to this condition of use. For further information please see the privacy policy (link on the right). University of Southern California Marshall School of Business | Copyright 2001 - 2022 Footer Privacy Policy