Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School Maps & Directions Graduate School Skip to Navigation Maps & Directions Brown Graduate School: The Graduate School is located at 47 George Street, in the Horace Mann building. (Graduate programs are housed in other campus buildings.) On-street metered parking is available on Prospect Street and other nearby streets; short-term non-metered parking is available on other nearby streets. Campus Maps: You can see an interactive map of the campus and its buildings. Directions to Campus: By Plane: T.F. Green International Airport is located about ten miles south of Providence. RIPTA busses, MBTA trains, taxis and airport shuttles are all options to travel from the airport to campus. By Train/Bus: Terminals for Amtrak, which offers national service, and MTBA, the Boston area commuter rail lines, are located in Providence's downtown district. Walk or take a taxi to campus from the terminals. Peter Pan Bus Lines offers a stop at the Rhode Island Convention Center. From there, you can either walk "up the hill" (about 15 minutes), or take a bus or cab to campus. By Automobile: to the Visitor Parking Lot (Note: Construction projects in the city may require adjustments to the routes below.) From the North or South: From either I-95 South or I-95 North, take Exit 22A, Downtown, Memorial Boulevard. At the fifth traffic light, turn left onto College Street. Cross the bridge and proceed up the hill. At the top of the hill, turn right onto Benefit Street. Go four blocks and take a left on to Power Street. Two blocks up on the left will be an entrace to the Power Street Parking Garage (upper level). From the East: Follow I-195 West until exit 2, South Main Street. Travel down South Main Street to the first light. Turn right onto College Street. At the next stop sign, go straight up the hill. At the top of the hill, turn right onto Benefit Street. Go four blocks and take a left on to Power Street. Two blocks up on the left will be an entrace to the Power Street Parking Garage (upper level). From the Northwest: Follow Route 146 to I-95 South. Once on I-95 South, follow the directions above (from the North and South). Parking: See the Transportation Office’s suggestions for parking on or near campus. In addition to the Visitor Parking Lot, metered spaces are available on a number of streets around campus. Most meters accept quarters only and are limited to two hours. Free parking spaces, although limited in number, are available on surrounding streets. Please be sure to read posted signs before parking. Do not leave valuables — including GPS systems, laptops, cell phones, and other electronic devices — in plain sight in your car. Home About the Graduate School People Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Brown University Travel Portal Campus Map University Calendar Visitor Parking Lot Map Providence Weather Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants