<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Olivia Melendez MBA 2022 Video Video Home Region Montclair, NJ Undergrad Education University of Michigan, BE, 2015 Previous Experience Intel, JP Morgan Chase HBS Activities Latino Student Organization (LASO) co-president, Rugby Club, Tech Club “I've never been surrounded by so many people that I relate to so deeply yet am so different from.” Why did you choose this path at this point in time? I had always planned to get an MBA to complement my engineering education and experience. After working for 3+ years in roles that were increasingly self-directed and broad in scope, I felt that gaining more formal skills in strategy and organizational behavior would really enhance my ability to lead. I was also ready for a personal change. As much as I loved my West Coast life (especially weekends in Tahoe), I have to admit that I missed the East Coast! Coming to HBS is like... ...reaching the summit of a mountain only to realize the best view is still miles ahead of you (in a good way). I didn’t think I could be any happier than the day HBS said “YES”. But every day here gets better as my classmates and I become closer and learn more about each other. Being part of the HBS community is like... ...finding a sense of “home” in a foreign place. I’ve never been surrounded by so many people that I relate to so deeply yet am so different from. As a kid, what did you want to be when you grew up? I wanted to be an actress. Throughout elementary school, I daydreamed of walking down the street and being “discovered” by a director looking to cast her next blockbuster hit. Then in 7th grade, a psychic at my friend’s birthday party predicted I’d go on to become a soap opera star. I guess I’m still waiting for my shot… What is your favorite childhood memory? There’s a home video that I absolutely love. It’s me at around 3 years old, with a head full of curly hair, standing in front of a sidewalk curb. Although I am fully capable of stepping up onto this curb, I start out crying out to my dad, “ayudame, papi! Ayudame!”. It’s hilarious to watch but also special to me because I am speaking perfect Spanish in the video. As I grew up, I switched to only speaking English and eventually lost my Spanish fluency. It’s one of my few regrets. Who is one person from your life that you admire the most today? Definitely my mom – she’s currently a judge in Brooklyn, NY and was the first Cuban-born elected judge in all of New York. Her life’s story is one of incredibly hard work, perseverance, and defiance against all odds. What’s the best thing about your hometown? It has to be the sandwiches! In Montclair, New Jersey we used to have two delis right next to each other: the “fat deli” and the “skinny deli” (nicknamed for the length and width of their physical storefronts, not their nutritional content). Most of my friends were partial to the “skinny deli”, but the “fat deli” was my first-ever summer job, so I remain fiercely loyal. Topics Banks & Banking Technology Home Region Montclair, NJ Undergrad Education University of Michigan, BE, 2015 Previous Experience Intel, JP Morgan Chase HBS Activities Latino Student Organization (LASO) co-president, Rugby Club, Tech Club Topics Banks & Banking Technology ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College