Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU HARVie Academic Calendar Directory Search HOME About What is FAS? Dean Claudine Gay Messages from the Dean FAS Leadership Advisory Committees Advancing Racial Justice Support FAS Reports FAS Strategic Planning Core Activities Teaching and Learning Research and Discovery Student Experience Academics & Research Academic Divisions & SEAS Departments and Areas Degree Programs & Courses Centers, Institutes & Societies Libraries Museums Resources Quick Contacts Sexual & Gender-Based Harassment Policy/Resources For Faculty For Staff For Postdocs News Covid-19 Updates and Resources News HOME / CORE ACTIVITIES / Teaching and Learning Harvard is home to the most dynamic conversation on teaching happening anywhere in higher education today. At FAS teaching matters—A Lot. Our faculty are coming together like never before to understand how to use our classrooms better, how to use technology to open up new pathways to knowledge, how to shape the new science of learning to better understand how our teaching methods impact students. The FAS is home to leading scholars who are constantly pushing the bounds of knowledge and whose teaching challenges students to go beyond the status quo. Our students are eager to meet the challenge. Innovative approaches to teaching and creative channels for making course content applicable and stimulating are what make the Harvard and FAS educational experience so unique. Harvard Activities to Support and Advance Teaching and Learning The Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning The Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning brings together faculty, graduate students and education researchers. The Bok center helps faculty innovate in their teaching by providing resources to develop novel teaching techniques and materials, venues for in-class experimentation, methods for integrating digital innovations with on-campus teaching, and ways to collaborate on educational research. Take a look at Harvard’s world-class faculty offering a sampling of the exciting and innovative teaching experienced by Harvard students. HarvardX Launched in parallel with edX, the Harvard and MIT founded, not-for-profit online learning platform, HarvardX integrates the development of instructional approaches and digital tools across Harvard’s campus by providing faculty with pedagogical and research support. A university-wide endeavor with strong ties to FAS, HarvardX supports faculty interested in enhancing teaching and learning both in the classroom and online by: giving them additional pedagogical support and integrating existing resources; offering more and more accessible technologies and tools; supporting a broader learning management ecosystem; and promoting scholarship on teaching and learning. View the list of online learning opportunities. Harvard Initiative for Learning & Teaching (HILT) HILT seeks to innovate excellence in teaching and learning in every community at Harvard. As a University-wide initiative, HILT is overseen by the Office of the Vice Provost for Advances in Learning (VPAL). Under the VPAL umbrella, HILT is a sibling organization to HarvardX and VPAL Research. HILT aims to be mutually reinforcing to and non-duplicative of related goals and efforts across Schools and to forge collaborations and provide support for these activities. These challenges require the combined efforts of individual students, faculty, and staff, and the thoughtful coordination of Programs, Centers, Departments, and Schools with each other and the University as a whole. Teach Remotely Teach Remotely supports an interim University-wide policy created in response the COVID-19 outbreak requiring all residential courses to transition to remote settings. The website offers guidance for instructors to transition courses online, teaching tips for engaging online learning experiences, technological resources they might adopt, and ways to get additional support. Core Activities Teaching and Learning Research and Discovery Student Experience Harvard University Faculty of Arts & Sciences Cambridge, MA 02138 Contact us website poll - real Help Us Improve Our Website Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement