Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > Nation, World & Society > Education > Saint Columbkille laboratory school Channels Close Home Chronicle Art & Culture Athletics & Recreation Campus & Community Humanities Faith & Religion Science, Tech & Health Nation, World & Society Economics BC Events Let there be light Veterans Remembrance Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights wins CASE gold award Pops hits a high note Archives BC News Archive Agora Portal Search News Archive New laboratory school Designation for Saint Columbkille Partnership School in Brighton will increase its teaching, research collaboration with Boston College Nation, World & Society / Education - Published on March 26, 2018 Photo by Lee Pellegrini Boston College's Lynch School of Education designated Brighton's Saint Columbkille Partnership School a laboratory school on March 26, to enhance opportunities for teacher training, educational research, and professional development at the pre-K-8 school. The laboratory school designation—the only such arrangement between a university and an elementary school in the City of Boston—will increase collaboration in teaching and research between Saint Columbkille’s teachers and BC faculty and students. The research—jointly designed by faculty from both institutions—will target the school’s specific needs. "A laboratory school is akin to a teaching hospital,” said William Gartside, head of school at Saint Columbkille since 2006. “Designating Saint Columbkille as a laboratory school will further improve the education of our children through increased research and interaction with BC faculty. It will enhance a 12-year partnership that has transformed the Saint Columbkille Partnership School from the brink of closure to one of the very best schools in the Archdiocese of Boston and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.” The data generated from the research will ensure best practices in curriculum and instruction at Saint Columbkille, and provide a knowledge base for innovation that will help facilitate educational advances at Catholic schools nationwide. It will also aid in the preparation of teachers and other education professionals at the Lynch School of Education. “The Lynch School has been very pleased to partner with Saint Columbkille during the past decade,” said Stanton Wortham, the Charles F. Donovan, S.J., dean of the Lynch School of Education. “The new, deeper laboratory school relationship will allow our faculty to work more closely with its teachers, gathering data to help them pursue their mission even more effectively.” “Designating Saint Columbkille as a laboratory school will further improve the education of our children through increased research and interaction with BC faculty. It will enhance a 12-year partnership that has transformed the Saint Columbkille Partnership School from the brink of closure to one of the very best schools in the Archdiocese of Boston and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.” St. Columbkille Laboratory School | Lynch School of Education from Boston College on Vimeo. Video by John Walsh & Ariana Cho '18 | University Communications In 2006, Boston College, the Archdiocese of Boston, and Saint Columbkille established the partnership school to prevent the closure of the last Catholic elementary school in Allston-Brighton. During the past 12 years, the school has flourished, with enrollment rising from 175 to 430, and its students—approximately 50 percent Black, Hispanic and Asian—consistently performing well above the national average on all testing measures. "There have been significant improvements in curriculum and instruction, professional development, extended day programs, and parental and community involvement since the partnership was launched," said Gartside. "BC has developed strong relationships with grade-level teams that supervise student teachers and created connections between volunteer organizations, after-school programs, and sports teams. Furthermore, educational research opportunities with the Lynch School of Education have grown significantly. BC has been an excellent partner whose educational contributions and financial commitment have transformed the school.” Saint Columbkille parents say that the expertise of Lynch School professors in a laboratory school relationship will further enrich the school in the support services offered to students and families. "The partnership between Saint Columbkille and Boston College not only saved my alma mater, but it also made it possible for my daughter to receive an amazing education,” said current parent Kelly McGrath of Brighton. “It has enabled all of us to be part of a community dedicated to the students’ and school's success. We are very excited about the laboratory school designation and the promise it holds for improving the educational experience of our children. We are grateful to both Saint Columbkille and BC for making all of this possible." During the past five academic years, more than 140 Boston College student teachers have honed their teaching skills under the supervision of Saint Columbkille instructors, learning how best to serve a diverse student population. In return, BC provides opportunities for the school's teachers to earn master’s degrees from the Lynch School, which further enhances a continuity of knowledge and practice. Gartside said that as a repository for research-based and data-driven best practices, Saint Columbkille will serve as a vital resource for Catholic schools in the Archdiocese of Boston and beyond. “I've already spoken with school administrators in New York City, Philadelphia, and Milwaukee, Wis., about the benefits of adopting this laboratory model," said Gartside. "We believe it is a formula for success." "We are very excited about the laboratory school designation and the promise it holds for improving the educational experience of our children. We are grateful to both Saint Columbkille and BC for making all of this possible." About Saint Columbkille Partnership School Founded in 1901, Saint Columbkille Partnership School is a Pre-K-8 Catholic school in the Brighton neighborhood of Boston. Since 2006, the school has partnered with Boston College to provide additional resources for a new national model of excellence in Catholic early childhood, elementary, and middle school education. Collaboration with the Archdiocese of Boston and Saint Columbkille Parish also has helped continue a rigorous and comprehensive education rooted in Gospel teaching and committed to Catholic educational and religious traditions. For more information, visit www.stcps.org. About the Lynch School of Education The Lynch School of Education at Boston College is a national leader in formative education, preparing more than 1,400 undergraduate and graduate students in teacher training, counseling, developmental and educational psychology, and educational leadership. Ranked first among U.S. Catholic schools of education and 23rd overall among graduate schools of education by U.S. News & World Report, the school was named in 2000 in honor of Boston-area philanthropists Carolyn and Peter Lynch, who have contributed more than $20 million in support of its mission. Learn more at www.bc.edu/lsoe. — University Communications Related links Boston Herald: Brighton School an education 'lab' The Pilot: St. Columbkille School designated a 'laboratory school.' BC's Lynch School engages St. Columbkille School in digital storytelling Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College