Skip navigation About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Global Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support Office of International Programs Pinpoint Your Program Distinctively Brown Brown offers a number of study abroad programs, exclusively or in collaboration with other highly selective U.S. universities. Features Programs are focused on directed integration into the country and the host institution's academic setting. Academic standards and curricula are consistent with Brown's. Administrative and academic support is provided on site, and often includes center of study, a Brown resident director, and an on-site Brown faculty director. Brown also offers faculty-led summer programs that we encourage you to explore. Consortium Programs The Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) is a collaborative initiative involving eleven leading research universities. CASA member institutions are Brown University, Columbia University, Cornell University, Dartmouth College, Harvard University, Johns Hopkins University, Northwestern University, Trinity College Dublin, the University of Melbourne, the University of Pennsylvania, and Vanderbilt University. Program offerings include Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Cuba, Ireland, and Spain (Barcelona and Granada). The CASA programs in Brazil, Cuba, Ireland, Barcelona, and Granada are administered by Brown University; applications from students outside the consortium are considered on a space-available basis. Kyoto Consortium for Japanese Studies (KCJS) Established in September 1989, the Kyoto Consortium for Japanese Studies (KCJS) is a consortium of 13 American universities that sponsors a rigorous, two-semester academic program for undergraduates who wish to do advanced work in Japanese language and cultural studies. Participating institutions are: Boston University, Brown University, University of Chicago, Columbia University/Barnard College, Cornell University, Emory University, Harvard University, University of Pennsylvania, Princeton University, Stanford University, Washington University in St. Louis, Yale University, and University of Virginia. Non-Brown Programs Approved Programs Brown students may transfer academic credit from approved programs run by other institutions. These programs have been reviewed by Brown faculty and OIP staff for academic rigor and program quality and have been pre-approved for credit transfer. OIP staff monitor these programs through site visits, advisory boards, and engagement with colleagues at other institutions to ensure that high standards are maintained. Students apply directly to these programs, adhering to the sponsoring institution's deadlines. They also complete an abbreviated Brown OIP electronic application. Petition Students may present an individual case for study at a location that is neither a Brown-sponsored program nor an approved program. The petition process allows students to attend programs that offer specialized curricula, such as uncommon languages or independently-designed coursework. Petitions must present a strong academic rationale for the proposed course of study. Non-academic program rationales will not be considered. All students are required to meet with a study abroad advisor prior to submitting a petition. Home Study Abroad COVID-19 Updates Programs Distinctively Brown/Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) programs Approved Programs Petition Process Summer Programs Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) Independent Study and Undergraduate Research Application Deadlines Meet with an Advisor Study Abroad Peer Advisors Faculty Advisors for Study Abroad FinancIal Information Getting Started Health & Safety Resources for Abroad Returning to Brown For Families Faculty & Staff OIP Events & Activities About the OIP Print this Page Share this Page Office of International Programs Brown University Box 1973 Page-Robinson Hall 420 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3555 Fax 401-863-3311 [email protected] For Global Travelers Controller's Office Travel Policies and Procedures International Health Insurance Register with Brown's International SOS Service Tips While Abroad - The Take It With You Guide Brown Travel Portal IT Security Travel Tips International Research Administration Travel Clinic For Global Visitors Office of International Student & Scholar Services (OISSS) International Health Insurance Brown Travel Portal International Student Resources Visiting Undergraduate Students Visiting Research Fellows and Non-Degree Graduate Students Study Abroad Office of International Programs - Undergraduate Study Abroad Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards Graduate School Partnerships and Exchanges Grant Opportunities Our grant database offers a wide range of funding opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and researcher in different fields of work. Search Grants Social Media Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Top Destinations Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Map & Directions Social Media Dashboard Contact Us Giving to Brown