Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About The Innovation Imperative FAQ Funding opportunities Roundtable Contacts Programs Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship Global Innovation Exchange Colleges and schools UW Medicine Incubators and accelerators Internships and fellowships Find a mentor Classes and clubs Events Upcoming events Autumn Quarter Winter Quarter Spring Quarter Ongoing events Spaces Makerspaces CoMotion Labs GIX Prototyping Labs Other facilities Startups Startup portfolio Success stories Investment and licensing opportunities Work with UW About the Innovation Imperative At the University of Washington, we’re not only one of the world’s leading public research universities, we’re a community of students, faculty and staff united by a drive to serve the public good. From educating future leaders and advancing inclusive innovation, to research breakthroughs that save and change lives, we’re committed to helping people and communities reach their full potential. The Innovation Imperative The UW Innovation Imperative empowers students and researchers to learn, discover and build solutions to tomorrow’s challenges. It encourages innovation by providing the space and opportunity for people from all backgrounds — from the humanities to the sciences, the poetic and the pragmatic — to connect, imagine and discover. We are accomplishing this through a breadth of opportunities with CoMotion serving as the collaborative innovation hub, the Global Innovation Exchange (GIX) serving as an academic/industry nexus for multidisciplinary learning in technology and innovation, the Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship serving UW students and early-stage entrepreneurs, and many other UW colleges and schools offering resources, activities, and classes. FAQ Whether you are a student, entrepreneur, investor or other community member, these Frequently Asked Questions will guide you in the right direction. Q: How can I become an entrepreneur? A: There are many ways for UW students and faculty to begin their journey. Many students take courses at the Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship or at the many other UW colleges and schools that offer classes in this space. For students, faculty or researchers who have intellectual property they wish to commercialize, please set up a consultation with CoMotion. Q: What kind of courses does UW offer in innovation and entrepreneurship? A: UW offers innovation and entrepreneurship classes through the Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship as well as a number of its colleges and schools including Art, Environment, Computer Science, Engineering, Business, Medicine, Law and the Global Innovation Exchange. Learn more on our classes page. Q: What mentorship opportunities does UW offer? A: Mentors can mean the difference between success and failure for early-stage entrepreneurs. UW offers connections to mentors for its students and budding entrepreneurs, and also offers industry and nonprofit leaders the opportunity to become a mentor. Q: Where can I find seed funding? A: UW offers a number of vehicles for students and faculty to obtain funding for the development of their innovations. Learn more in the Funding Opportunities section immediately below. Q: Where can I find legal advice? A: The Entrepreneurial Law Clinic (ELC) is an innovative clinic serving entrepreneurs throughout the Pacific Northwest. It teams law and business students with pro bono attorneys and business advisors. Together they provide critical early-stage legal and business counseling to technology and social entrepreneurs, small business owners, nonprofits, and UW and Institute for Translational Health Sciences faculty researchers. Q: How can I recruit teammates for my startup? A: Building a great team is one of the most important parts of creating a startup. Finding people with diverse skills, strengths and perspectives will increase your likelihood of succeeding. There are many ways to find teammates. One way is to participate in a competition or hackathon. You can also find people to work with in any Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship class, another entrepreneurial class, or one of the clubs around campus [link to Classes and Clubs page]. The Startup Tree platform is another way to connect with potential teammates. Q: Where can I find more information about licensing and intellectual property, including patent rights and software copyrights? A: CoMotion, UW’s collaborative innovation hub, is the best place to start. Q: How can I find out about on-campus office space for my startup? A: CoMotion Labs provides a multi-industry incubation environment for early-stage startups with a focus on UW spinoffs. From critical infrastructure to just-in-time learning, mentoring, and networking, CoMotion Labs nurtures company growth and enables success. Didn’t find what you were looking for? Contact CoMotion or the Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship. Funding opportunities UW offers a number of vehicles for students and faculty to obtain funding for the development of their innovations. CoMotion Innovation Gap Fund: A bridge between research grants and seed-stage investment. CoMotion DubPitch: Bi-annual pitch event for UW startups who are fundraising. CoMotion Director’s Award: Financial support for UW innovations addressing a societal need. WE-REACH: Teaching and funding tools to address challenges in health. NSF I-Corps: Customer discovery program for ideas with commercial potential. Buerk Center Prototype Funding: Funding to help make your model/prototype for Buerk Center competitions. SBIR/STTR Guidance & Advising: Assistance in writing applications for these small business programs as part of a commercialization strategy. EarthLab Innovation Grants: Invests in teams of UW researchers, students and non-academic partners developing innovative solutions to pressing environmental challenges. Mistletoe Research Fellowship: Awards grants for startups with a high potential for social and humanitarian impact. Mobility Innovation: Funding for projects that tackle transportation challenges, using applied research and experimentation. UW Innovation Roundtable The UW Innovation Roundtable aims to optimize UW’s technology transfer effectiveness, enhance an already vibrant innovation ecosystem, expand startup creation, and identify opportunities for private/public partnerships to advance the UW’s economic and societal impact. Role of Innovation Roundtable Connect, grow, and strengthen the innovation investment ecosystem in the Pacific Northwest region. Advise on university-wide innovation strategy and initiatives. Help foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship across campus. Inform best practices in commercialization and innovation, including licensing and IP practices. Assist with business development strategy for new initiatives. Advocate for the role the UW plays within the greater Seattle regional innovation ecosystem. Roundtable members Innovation Roundtable members serve as UW innovation ambassadors in the broader community, providing connections and ideas that may further the university’s innovation strategies. François Baneyx, director, CoMotion; UW vice provost for innovation François Baneyx has served as the University of Washington Vice Provost for Innovation and Director of CoMotion since 2019. The Charles W.H. Matthaei Professor of Chemical Engineering and an adjunct professor of Bioengineering, Dr. Baneyx is an internationally recognized authority on protein production technologies and the biological fabrication of advanced materials with applications in medicine, sensing, opto-electronics, and catalysis. For his contributions to these fields, he was elected to the American Association for the Advancement of Science (2013), the American Institute of Medical and Biological Engineering (2015), the American Academy of Microbiology (2015), and the Washington State Academy of Sciences (2016). As Vice Provost for Innovation, Dr. Baneyx drives and coordinates innovation activities, builds connections with the economic development community, and engages with industry, government, nonprofits, and the regional and global innovation ecosystems to shape the university’s innovation strategies. He directs CoMotion, overseeing intellectual property protection and licensing, training of a diverse entrepreneurial workforce, and funding and mentorship programs that support the creation, incubation, and launch of startups. Dr. Baneyx also directs the Center for the Science of Synthesis Across Scales, a multi-institution Energy Frontier Research Center funded by the U.S. Department of Energy. He previously served in various leadership positions, including site director of the National Nanotechnology Infrastructure Network (2004-2012), director of the Center for Nanotechnology (2005-2013), and most recently, chair of the Department of Chemical Engineering (2014-2019). He is the co-founder of Proteios, a University of Washington spinoff dedicated to reducing the cost and complexity of protein and therapeutic cell purification. Dr. Baneyx earned a doctoral degree in chemical engineering from the University of Texas at Austin. He was a postdoctoral researcher at DuPont before joining the University of Washington faculty in 1992. Susan Coliton, interim chief executive officer, Washington Research Foundation Susan Coliton is a senior consultant with Seattle-based Luma Consulting, where she offers strategic counsel to philanthropists, foundations, and nonprofits to help them deepen their impact in the communities they serve. She is currently serving as the Interim President & CEO of Washington Research Foundation/WRF Capital while WRF conducts a national search for a new CEO, in addition to her service on the WRF board. Previous assignments include Interim President and CEO of the Santa Fe Community Foundation, and Interim President and CEO of ArtsFund. Coliton spent 15 years as the head of Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen’s philanthropic programs, where she oversaw regional, national, and international grant-making programs through the Paul G. Allen Family Foundation. She was a founding board member of the Allen Institute for Brain Science. Prior to joining the Allen Foundation, Coliton held management positions at several national philanthropic organizations. She directed the west coast office of the New York-based Nonprofit Finance Fund, designed corporate giving programs for Gap, Inc., and worked as a grantmaking specialist at the National Endowment for the Arts. Coliton received a B.A. from Saint Mary’s College (Notre Dame, IN) and an M.L.A. from Johns Hopkins University (Baltimore, MD). She completed Stanford’s Executive Program for Philanthropy Leaders and the Executive Seminar at the Aspen Institute. Neal Dempsey, managing general partner, Bay Partners Neal Dempsey is Managing General Partner of Bay Partners, one of the longest-running venture capital firms in Silicon Valley. Forbes has named him as one of the top 100 venture capitalists in the world. Throughout his career, Mr. Dempsey has served on over seventy-five public and private boards for companies. He is also an Adjunct Professor at the University of Washington’s Foster School of Business. Giving back is a cornerstone of Mr. Dempsey’s investing philosophy. In addition to being awarded the Gates Volunteer Service Award, he has endowed scholarship funds for students, young assistant professors and athletes at the University of Washington, Willamette University, and Claremont McKenna College. He provided leadership for the Capital Campaigns for Dempsey Hall and Dempsey Indoor. A lover of outdoors, Mr. Dempsey serves on the board of ACES, an environmental organization in Aspen, Colorado. He also is the Chair of Uplift Family Services, which helps over 30,000 children and their family members recover from trauma, such as abuse, severe neglect, addiction, and poverty. Emer Dooley, executive director, Alliance of Angels Seed Fund; Faculty Fellow, Foster School of Business Emer Dooley is an adjunct faculty member at the UW Foster School of Business and teaches entrepreneurship and strategy. Through the Arthur W. Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship, Ms. Dooley works to involve students in all aspects of company creation, technology commercialization, and investment. She raised and ran the Alliance of Angels first $4.4 million dollar Seed Fund and is a former board member of the Washington Research Foundation. She is a trustee and former board chair of the Ashesi University Foundation, and a member of the Women’s World Banking Board. Ms. Dooley holds a PhD and MBA from the University of Washington and a BSc (Electrical Engineering) and M. Eng. from the University of Limerick. Christine Farmer, vice president & site head, Novo Nordisk Research Center Seattle Christine Farmer joined the Novo Nordisk Research Center – Seattle as Vice President & Site Head in May of 2019. Since that time, she has focused on developing strategic partnerships between the Novo Nordisk Research & Early Development organization and the unique life-sciences and technology innovators that can be found in the local Seattle ecosystem. Christine also leads the Novo Nordisk Global Research Site Network and has direct responsibility for ensuring effective and efficient operations management of the US based R&D sites in Seattle, Boston, Indianapolis, and Fremont, California. Prior to joining the R&D organization, Christine spent 18 years in various marketing and sales roles both domestically and globally. Most recently, she was Vice President, Commercial Operations at Novo Nordisk, Inc. in New Jersey, where she led a diverse group of departments that provided strategic support and infrastructure management for the commercial organization, including OmniChannel Marketing, Marketing Operations, Sales Operations, and Digital Health & Innovation. In that role, Christine and her team initiated Novo Nordisk’s earliest forays into the digital therapeutics space. Christine is truly passionate about building suitable and sustainable future-focused business organizations. She strives to help find the necessary balance between bold aspirations and highly functioning operational infrastructure that will enable the development of innovative health and wellness solutions. Pradeep Fernandes, vice president of strategy, Boeing Commercial Airplanes Pradeep Fernandes is Vice President of Strategy for Boeing Commercial Airplanes. In this role, he oversees cross-functional efforts to define Boeing’s strategic direction and address complex, enterprise-wide business decisions. These include designing business models for new programs, providing internal strategy consulting, developing product and propulsion strategy, and aviation policy. Fernandes is also responsible for international business development strategy and serves on the Boeing International leadership team. He previously served as managing director of strategy for the Confident Travel Initiative, where he was responsible for developing strategy for Boeing efforts to restore public confidence in air travel. Fernandes has served in a variety of roles since joining Boeing in 1997. As managing director of International Strategy & Business Development, he was responsible for advancing Commercial Airplanes’ efforts to be a global leader and align international objectives across business units. He was also managing director of Boeing HorizonX, where he explored opportunities beyond the company’s core businesses, including initiatives that could potentially disrupt the core businesses themselves. As managing director for Product Strategy at Commercial Airplanes, Fernandes led product strategy and recommended launching the newest 737 family, 777X and 787-10 Dreamliner. He also led marketing and strategy efforts to launch the Boeing Sky Interior as product manager for the Next-Generation 737. While serving in the Commercial Airplanes Supply Chain Strategy group, Fernandes led efforts to develop an overall supply chain strategy and key supplier strategies. He also spent three years in the Corporate Audit organization — working in the Configuration Engineering and Analysis and the Fleet Support Engineering groups, where he contributed to airplane performance analysis and new airplane early-configuration development. Fernandes earned a Bachelor of Science in aerospace engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of New York University, a Master of Science in aeronautics and astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a Master of Business Administration from The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. Mike Halperin, co-chair, UW General Campaign Dr. Mike Halperin served as a General Co-Chair of the University of Washington’s 5-billion-dollar campaign – Be Boundless / For Washington, For the World. Raised in Seattle, Dr. Halperin attended Brown University and the University of Washington, where he received his M.D. He practiced Emergency Medicine for 20 years during which time he ran a clinical practice and managed a group of Emergency Physicians. Dr. Halperin is active in the bioscience start-up community as a Scientific Advisor, Corporate Advisor, Board member, and investor. He is a past president of Seattle Academy of Arts and Sciences (SAAS), was a founding member of numerous 501c3s, and is actively engaged in a number of civic causes as a philanthropist and fund raiser. Bill Hilf, CEO, Vulcan LLC A seasoned executive, Bill Hilf’s career spans more than 20 years leading complex businesses, product development, and philanthropic initiatives for global organizations such as Microsoft, HP, and IBM as well as a variety of technology start-ups. Hilf currently serves as chief executive officer of Vulcan, the management firm founded in 1986 by philanthropists Jody Allen and the late Paul G. Allen, co-founder of Microsoft. Hilf leads the company’s three focus areas comprising award-winning, sustainable real estate development, a diverse range of asset and project management supporting the Paul G. Allen Estate and Trust, and strategic advising to the Paul G. Allen Family Foundation and its portfolio of charitable investments in wildlife conservation, ocean health, vibrant communities, and the arts. Hilf serves as board chair of the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence, and is a board member for American Prairie and the Woodland Park Zoo. In addition, he is on the board of Grumeti Fund, dedicated to the conservation of the Serengeti, and serves as an advisor to Humanity 2.0 and X4Impact. He is also founder of High Five Hope, a nonprofit to help street children experience greater confidence, leadership, and hope through the power of sports. Hilf completed his undergraduate studies at California State University-Fullerton and received his master’s degree from Chapman University. Bill McAleer, founder and managing director, Voyager Capital Bill McAleer is Managing Director at Voyager Capital, an early-stage venture firm with over $525 million under management focused on investing in tech opportunities in the Pacific Northwest. He has over 30 years of combined investing and senior executive experience in the information technology industry. At Voyager, he has participated on the boards of 27 companies, including 21 portfolio companies, focusing on cloud, software, digital media, and mobile opportunities. Fifteen of his portfolio companies were sold for exits including Amplitude, Attenex, Blue Box Group, Melodeo, NetPodium, Placecast, Tegic Communications, Yapta, and, most recently, Zipwhip for $940 million to Twilio. He has been involved in over $4.5 billion in exit transactions, including several IPO’s. He currently serves on the boards of Rowan TELS and Thoughtexchange. He is also a board observer for Ayla and Hiya. Prior to co-founding Voyager in 1997, Mr. McAleer was President of e.liance Partners, a consulting firm that advised information technology companies on strategy, venture financing, and corporate partnering. He served as Vice President of Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary of Aldus from 1988 to 1994 when the company’s revenues grew from $30 to $240 million. Mr. McAleer was responsible for global finance, legal, operations, and acquisition activities, including completing the merger with Adobe in 1994. He also served as a senior executive with Westin Hotels from 1979 to 1987. Bill has been active in several university organizations, including serving as the past chair and a current member of the Advisory Board for the University of Washington Buerk Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship. He was also a Cornell University Trustee and has served on the Advisory Boards for Cornell’s Johnson Graduate School of Business, the Cornell Hotel School, e.Cornell, and the Center for Entrepreneurship. He has also been active on several tech industry boards, including the Washington Technology Industry Association, Washington Technology Association, DEMO, the Canadian Financing Forum and Thayer Ventures. He earned a B.S. and an M.B.A. from Cornell University. Matt McIlwain, managing director, Madrona Venture Group Matt McIlwain is Managing Director of Madrona Venture Group and invests in a broad range of software and data driven companies with a focus on cloud computing, dataware, intelligent applications, and the intersections of innovation (where life science and data science intersect). He believes in the Learning Loop for entrepreneurs who journey from curiosity to triangulation and decision making. This leads to positive outcomes and ongoing learnings. Before joining Madrona in 2000, Matt was vice president of business process for the Genuine Parts Company (NYSE:GPC). He also was an engagement manager at McKinsey & Company, concentrating on strategy and marketing in technology-driven sectors and prior to that worked in investment banking at Credit Suisse. Matt is a board member (and previous chair) of Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and a board member of Washington Policy Center. He is a graduate of Dartmouth College and holds an MBA from Harvard Business School and a Master’s in Public Policy from Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government. Neal Okarter, investment manager, BASF Venture Capital Neal Okarter is an Investment Manager with BASF Venture Capital, the corporate venture capital company of the BASF Group. BASF Venture Capital’s investment scope is broad. However, Neal’s investment scope tends to focus on agtech, sustainability, and biosciences. Prior to BASF Venture Capital, Neal spent more than six years with BASF Management Consulting, the internal management consultancy of the BASF Group. At BASF Management Consulting, Neal led several projects related to Marketing & Sales, Growth & Innovation, Transformational Change, Organizational Restructuring, and Mergers & Acquisition (Post-Merger Integration & Carve Out). Neal earned his BS in Nutrition, Food, and Agriculture, and PhD in Molecular Nutrition and Cell Biology from Cornell University, and his MBA from Rutgers Business School and is located in Los Angeles, CA Susan Preston, managing member, SeaChange Fund, Seattle Angel Fund, and Element 8 Fund Susan Preston is the Managing Partner of SeaChange Fund, committed to fostering entrepreneurial growth in the Pacific Northwest through early-stage investments. She is a globally recognized author, consultant, and speaker on angel and venture financing. Ms. Preston has nearly 20 years of experience as an angel and venture investor, as well as in senior management of early-stage companies. She has held senior positions at private and public companies; been a partner in three law firms; served on the founding boards for Angel Capital Association and Angel Resource Institute; written two books on angel investing; and taught and consulted around the world on angel investing and early-stage investment structures. Ms. Preston has received multiple accolades for her leadership, including the Angel Capital Association’s Hans Severiens award and U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell’s Women of Valor award. She has taught in the MBA program and was the Buerk Endowed Fellow for Entrepreneurship at the University of Washington. She received her JD, cum laude, from Seattle University School of Law and her BS, magna cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa, in Microbiology and Public Health from Washington State University. Linden Rhoads, former vice provost of the UW Center for Commercialization From 2008-2014, Linden Rhoads was Vice Provost for the UW Center for Commercialization (now known as CoMotion), the unit of the University that seeks to commercialize discoveries emerging from research conducted at the UW. A scientist and J.D., prior to this Ms. Rhoads was a serial entrepreneur, mentor capitalist, and investor. Ms. Rhoads co-founded and managed numerous high-tech start-ups including: Virtual i-O, ChiliSoft (acquired by Sun Microsystems), streaming media-search-services provider Singingfish.com (acquired by Thomson Multimedia, then by AOL), online advertising metrics leader AdRelevance (acquired by Media Metrix, then Nielsen Netratings), personalized large-scale email-campaign software provider GBI (acquired by Exchange Applications) and Nimble Technology. Through her investment company Seattle Ventures, she’s been an active technology investor, and a participant in organized angel investment groups such as the Alliance of Angels and Element 8. She has served as the General Manager of the W Fund since its inception. The W Fund backed 19 spin-outs from Washington State research institutions. Ms. Rhoads serves on the Guaranteed Education Tuition Program Governing Board, overseeing Washington’s GET and DreamAhead 529 tuition savings programs. Charlotte Yarkoni, president, commerce + ecosystems, Microsoft Corporation As President, Commerce + Ecosystems, Charlotte Yarkoni is responsible for enabling and optimizing the end-to-end customer journey for all Microsoft products, services, and channels. Her Commerce and Ecosystem team is focused on empowering customers, partners, and developers to achieve success by making it easy for people and organizations to engage and do business with Microsoft. She is also responsible for building the commerce capabilities and infrastructure fueling Microsoft’s digital transformation while helping customers and partners on their similar journey. Charlotte has held many roles prior to coming to Microsoft, from being a startup CEO to being a senior technology leader across various industries. Her broad experience includes executive roles at companies such as Telstra, VMware, and EMC. She also worked for AT&T, IBM, and Accenture. Yarkoni earned her bachelor’s degree in Management Science from Georgia Institute of Technology. Ex-officio members Ana Mari Cauce, UW president A member of the UW faculty since 1986, Cauce became interim president in March 2015, having previously served as provost and executive vice president, and the UW Board of Regents selected her to become the UW’s 33rd president in 2015. Throughout her career, Cauce has championed access to higher education, including through the Husky Promise, which provides full tuition to eligible Washington students who otherwise could not attend college. As part of her strong belief in ensuring access to higher education for all, just one month into her role as interim president she engaged students in an honest discussion about race and equity, launching an effort to create a more just and diverse community. Raised in Miami after emigrating with her family from Cuba, Cauce earned a B.A. in English and psychology from the University of Miami and a Ph.D. in psychology, with a concentration in child clinical and community psychology, from Yale University. Cauce is a professor of Psychology and American Ethnic Studies, with secondary appointments in the Department of Gender, Women and Sexuality Studies and the College of Education. She maintains an active research program, focusing on adolescent development, with a special emphasis on at-risk youth. She is also a strong advocate for women and underrepresented minorities to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Cauce remains active in the classroom and continues to teach and mentor undergraduate and graduate students. Mary Gresch, senior vice president for University Advancement, University of Washington Mary is Senior Vice President for University Advancement at the University of Washington, overseeing the marketing and communications, development, alumni and stakeholder engagement, and advancement operations functions. Mary’s career has been defined by a brand and mission-focused approach to building integrated strategy and structures for University Advancement — uniting the disciplines of communications and marketing, alumni relations, and development to serve the University’s public mission and aspirations with the greatest possible impact. She serves on the University’s Race and Equity Steering Committee and believes deeply in building shared equity leadership and in University Advancement’s role in building community internally and externally. Prior to her appointment as Senior Vice President, Mary served as Vice President for Communications and Chief Marketing Officer for the University of Washington since 2013. Prior to joining the UW, she was the principal at Mary Gresch & Associates and served in communication capacities at Washington State University — including as the Associate Vice President for Strategic Communications and Marketing and Director of Foundation Communications. Prior to her tenure at WSU, Mary was the director of public relations and publications at the Cate School in Carpinteria, California, and a development coordinator for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. Mary has also been active in CASE, the Council for Advancement and Support of Higher Education, for many years, and currently serves as chair of the national CASE Advisory Committee on the Value of Higher Education. Rickey Hall, vice president for Minority Affairs & Diversity, University of Washington Rickey Hall is the eighth Vice President for the Office of Minority Affairs and Diversity. He leads the university’s diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts, and plays a key role in advancing institutional excellence. He has oversight of the UW Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity (OMA&D) which administers programs that broaden college access, support student success, and enhance diversity-related teaching and learning across campus. OMA&D also works collaboratively with and serves as a resource for colleges and administrative units as they establish, coordinate, and assess their contributions to institutional diversity goals. In addition, to being the Vice President for Minority Affairs and Diversity, Rickey is the University Diversity Officer for the University of Washington campuses. Mark Richards, UW provost Mark Richards joined the University of Washington as provost and executive vice president for academic affairs on July 1, 2018. A geophysicist, Richards also holds a faculty appointment in the College of the Environment’s Department of Earth and Space Sciences. As provost, he is the University’s chief academic and budget officer. Richards came to the UW from the University of California, Berkeley, where he was professor of Earth and Planetary Science. While at Berkeley, he served as dean of mathematical and physical sciences, and simultaneously as executive dean of the College of Letters and Science. For his work on racial, ethnic, and gender diversity in the STEM fields, Richards received Berkeley’s two highest awards for promoting equity and inclusion. His research is focused on dynamic processes in the interior of the Earth and the terrestrial planets, and how these processes affect geological phenomena such as plate tectonics and volcanic eruptions. His work includes observational, experimental, and computational methods. Richards is currently leading an international team exploring the enormous Deccan Traps volcanic eruptions in India 66 million years ago, which coincided with the great Chicxulub (Yucatán, Mexico) meteor impact and the mass extinction that killed the dinosaurs. After receiving his bachelor’s degree in engineering from the University of Texas at Austin, Richards earned his master’s in applied physics and a Ph.D. in geophysics from Caltech, followed by a postdoc at the Australian National University. He served on the faculties of the University of Oregon and, in 1993, at the UW. Former members Adriane Brown, venture partner, Flying Fish LinkedIn Chris DeVore, managing partner, Founders Co-Op LinkedIn Greg Gottesman, co-founder and managing director, Pioneer Square Labs LinkedIn Ron Howell, CEO, Washington Research Foundation (Retired) LinkedIn Charlotte Hubbert, senior director of business development and strategic alliances, NanoString LinkedIn Amit Mital, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director at National Security Council, The White House LinkedIn Sheila Remes, vice president of strategy, Boeing Commercial Airplanes LinkedIn Julie Sunderland, managing director, BioMatics Capital Bloomberg Profile Bryan White, founder, Sahsen Ventures LinkedIn In memorium Tachi Yamada, venture partner, Frazier Healthcare Partners Tadataka Yamada, 1945-2021: Pioneer in drug development led global health at Gates Foundation (Geekwire) Contacts Reach out to CoMotion, the Global Innovation Exchange (GIX), or the Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship and we can answer your questions and/or get you connected. CoMotion CoMotion partners with the UW community on their innovation journey, providing tools, connections, and acumen to transform ideas into economic and societal impact. CoMotion Contacts Global Innovation Exchange (GIX) The Global Innovation Exchange connects UW with industry and academic partners around the world to deliver project-based, multidisciplinary graduate and professional programs in technology and innovation, inspiring tomorrow’s leaders to address today’s most pressing challenges. GIX Contacts Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship The Buerk Center offers an exceptional curriculum, real-world experiences, and connections to inspire students from all majors and disciplines across campus to pursue their entrepreneurial passions. Buerk Center Contacts AboutProgramsClasses/ClubsEventsSpacesStartupsWork with UW University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA