Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Medical School Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Medical School Celebrates 2022 Graduates at In-Person Ceremony A ceremony on May 18 honored 148 students who earned MD degrees from VP&S and 77 students who earned PhD degrees from Columbia’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Topic Campus News New Documentary on Health Disparities Features Columbia Doctor Columbia pediatrician Hetty Cunningham appears in "The Color of Care," a new documentary about racial health disparities and their consequences during the COVID-19 pandemic. Topic Campus News Tradition Takes a Twist at Transition Ceremony for VP&S Class of 2024 Second-year medical students celebrated their transition to patient-centered learning at the Steven Z. Miller Student Clinician's Ceremony. Topic CUIMC Update Columbia Medical Students Recognized for Research Sixty-seven medical students shared research on cardiovascular disease, mental illness and hearing loss, cervical cancer screening practices, and more. Top projects won awards in four categories. Topic Campus News Latest News Match Day 2022: Columbia Medical Students Celebrate Their Residencies March 18, 2022 On Match Day, 146 VP&S students discovered where they will start their medical training after graduation and celebrated their residencies with family and friends in person. Topic Campus News Building Better Representation in Psychiatry’s Ranks February 9, 2022 A Columbia summer program for medical students is working to increase the number of psychiatrists from historically underrepresented groups. Topic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Moving the Needle on Gender Equity By Danny McAlindon | Illustrations by Davide Bonazzi January 6, 2022 The work of Anne Taylor and her team honors the courageous past of women faculty, maintains a flourishing present, and keeps a determined eye on the challenges that remain. Topic Campus News Faculty Confront Structural Racism in Health Care By Brittany King November 30, 2021 VP&S faculty have joined the fight against structural racism by proposing and implementing a variety of pilot programs designed to impact both medical education and patient care. Topic Education Columbia Joins Anti-Racist Transformation in Medical Education Project October 18, 2021 VP&S is among 11 medical schools from across the United States selected to participate in the project, which seeks to dismantle systemic racism and bias in medical education. Topic Campus News Newest VP&S Students Recite Their Own Oath at White Coat Ceremony August 23, 2021 At the annual White Coat Ceremony, 140 members of the VP&S Class of 2025 donned their first white coats and recited an Oath written by the class to mark the beginning of their medical education. Topic Campus News More Asian American Representation Needed in Leadership and Diversity Efforts in Academic Medicine August 17, 2021 In a commentary published in JAMA, the deans of the Columbia and Cornell medical schools write that Asian Americans are underrepresented in the highest ranks of academic medicine. Topic Campus News VP&S Welcomes Its Most Diverse Class of Medical Students August 16, 2021 The VP&S Class of 2025 has more students from underrepresented minority backgrounds than any medical school class in Columbia’s history. Topic CUIMC Update Columbia Medical Students Start New Emergency Medicine Clerkship August 10, 2021 Columbia medical students used to experience emergency medicine briefly during other rotations, but now the specialty has its own clerkship in the second year, earlier than most other schools. Topic Education VP&S Doctors as Olympians August 2, 2021 Five VP&S alumni, including 20th century baby doctor “Dr. Spock,” participated in the Olympic games over the past century. Topic Campus News Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top