Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Intelligence & Capacity Research Navigator Education & Training Division of Veterinary Resources (DVR) Research Information Technology Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Intelligence & Capacity Research Navigator Education & Training Division of Veterinary Resources (DVR) Research Information Technology $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RCO Research Intelligence & Capacity AAA Research Intelligence & Capacity Research Navigator Education & Training Division of Veterinary Resources (DVR) Research Information Technology Research Intelligence & Capacity Research Intelligence & Capacity facilitates automation and streamlining in order to work smarter and improve processes. This unit provides reporting, research administration systems support, education and training, forms, website and document management, and data and document capture. Education & Training Research Intelligence & Capacity provides a comprehensive suite of live, online, and self-paced training opportunities for University of Miami researchers and support staff. Visit our calendar and course descriptions for upcoming classes and check this page regularly to explore added training materials. Research Navigator Launching in Fall 2021, the Research Navigator is a new service for researchers and scholars. This concierge-style service will offer assistance in navigating the research enterprise, and connecting faculty directly to the resources, support, and services needed. To learn more or provide feedback as we develop the initiative, email navigator@miami.edu. Supported Systems Reports & Data Sponsored Programs Annual Reports, the Research Reporting System (RRS), and the PI Portal IBIS Research IBISResearch is the University of Miami's Grants and Agreements management system. Employee Compensation Compliance (ECC) The ECC system (formerly ECRT) is designed to help comply with the provisions of the University of Miami's Effort Reporting policy, federal policy and other relevant agency policies that govern charging an individual's effort to sponsored projects. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices