Skip to main content Skip to main navigation University Libraries Menu University Libraries About Contact Us Employment, Fellowships, and Internships Affordable Course Materials Summer Fellows Active Learning Lab Fellowship Baylor Libraries Summer Internship Programs Fundamentals of Data Research Fellowships Learning Design Fellowship Special Collections Teaching Fellowships Library Publications and Media Basic Information Inspiring Insight Baylor ITS and Libraries Magazine Our Libraries, Institutes, and Centers Media Inquiries Marketing & Communications Meet the Dean Mission & Vision Moody Starbucks People Find Your Librarian Organizational Charts Policies Publication & Digital Reproduction Policy & Procedures Spaces Study Zones in Moody-Jones Moody Pods Specialists Directory Archivists Arts and Special Collections Research Center Course Reserves Classroom Technology Data and Digital Scholarship Digital Humanities Digitization Exhibits Fundraising and Development Grants and Grantwriting HelpDesk+ (Technology Support) Information (Library Public Services) Library Instruction Instructional Design Makerspace Marketing and Communications Media Lab Metaliteracies OsoFast Campus Delivery OsoFast Interlibrary Loan Research Librarians Special Collections Visitor Information Map & Parking Research A-Z Databases Baylor Archival Repositories Database BEARdocs Borrow, Request, Renew Copyright Guidance Data & Digital Scholarship About Data & Digital Scholarship Data Research Fellows Data Scholar Workshops Data Visualization of the Week Projects and Tools Digital Collections High Performance and Research Computing Services HPRCS Services HPRCS Systems HPRCS Support HPRCS Staff Interlibrary Loan/OsoFast Distance Education & Faculty Abroad Library Services OsoFast Delivery Library Guides Managing Citations Off-campus Access OneSearch Research Support Data and Digital Scholarship Government Documents Library Literacies Liaison Program Public Services Discover Black Gospel Archive Black Gospel Music Preservation Project Black Gospel Music Royce-Darden Digital Collection Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center Black Gospel Preachers Project Distinctive Collections Baylor Athletics Archive Book Arts Collection The Browning Letters Texas Maps Collection Women's Collections Graduate Research Center GRC Map Makerspace Media Lab Moody and Jones Libraries New Student Resources Moody & Jones Virtual Tour 2022 Research Libraries, Institutes, and Centers Armstrong Browning Library and Museum Arts and Special Collections Research Center Institute for Oral History Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society W. R. Poage Legislative Library The Texas Collection and University Archives University Writing Center Learn Course Reserves Course Reading List Reserve Requests Form Events Voices & Vinyl 7 Past Events Exhibits Art in the Carrels: BU Student Artists A Stitched-Up Life: Presenting the Work of Dr. Mary Ruth Smith Creations 2022 Crosshatch Galleries National Pan-Hellenic 10th Anniversary Exhibit W. R. Poage Legislative Library Permanent Exhibit Past Exhibits History Fair Learning Together Library Literacies Workshops, Learning Opportunities & Training Visit Armstrong Browning Library and Museum About Collections Give to ABL Research & Instruction Visit Arts & Special Collections Research Center About Explore Special Collections Visit The Baylor Legal Research and Technology Center The Institute for Oral History About Give to the IOH Grants Research Resources Search Our Collection Social Media Student Resources Workshops The Keston Center for Religion, Politics & Society About Keston Collection Exhibits Give to the Keston Center Lectures and Symposia Research Visit Library and Academic Technology Services Experiential Learning Commons Learning Design Learning Spaces Learning Systems Contact LATS Moody and Jones Libraries Arts & Special Collections Research Center Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center HelpDesk+ and Experiential Learning Commons Hours Map and Location Guide Spaces University Writing Center The School of Education Learning Resource Center The Louise Herrington School of Nursing Learning Resource Center The Texas Collection and University Archives About The Texas Collection Collection Highlights Connect With Us On Social Media Research At The Texas Collection Texas Collection Visitor Information W. R. Poage Legislative Library About Collections Connect Give to the Poage Library Research Give Dean of Libraries Priorities Baylor Book Society & Library Endowed Book Fund Books for Bears and Bear Cubs Lanella Spinks Gray Baylor at Independence Fund Sue Margaret Hughes Library Internship Fund Graduate Research Center 2.0 Distinctive Collections Innovative Programming and Spaces Makerspace Upgrades Funding Opportunity Philanthropy's Impact on the Libraries Research Libraries, Institutes and Centers 2021 Development Highlights OsoFast Hours Baylor>University Libraries>About>Policies Policies The Baylor Libraries have instituted a number of policies that govern its spaces and operations. We ask that Baylor students, faculty, staff, and visitors observe these policies while inhabiting library spaces and using materials and resources. 1. Circulation Questions and Answers about our circulation policies are available on our "Ask Us" platform. 2. Copyright For information about copyright, visit our extensive Research Guide on copyright. 3. Digital Collections Rights and Usage The Baylor University Libraries have a wide variety of rare, special, and unique materials, many of which are now in digital collections or may be in the future. Those libraries include the: Armstrong Browning Library Arts & Special Collections Research Center Baylor Collections of Political Materials Baylor University Archives Keston Archive and Library The Texas Collection Uses of the digital materials from these collections adhere to the following: Baylor University provides access to these materials for educational and research/scholarly purposes. Baylor University may or may not own the rights for materials found in our digital collections. For those materials for which Baylor University does not own the rights, we cannot grant or deny permission to distribute that material. These materials may only be used with permission from the copyright owner, or within the limits of fair use and other statutory exceptions. It is the user's obligation to determine and satisfy copyright or other use restrictions when publishing or otherwise distributing materials to which Baylor University does not own the rights. If you wish to publish or reproduce materials from these collections, please see: Baylor University Libraries' Publication and Digital Reproduction Policy and Procedures. If you claim copyright ownership of any of the materials in these digital collections and believe that your materials are inappropriately accessible online, please contact: Jon Allen Associate Vice President, CIO & CISO Email: DMCA@baylor.edu Phone: (254) 710-4793 Fax: (254) 710-2716 PO Box 97268 Waco TX, 76798 Reproductions For information about digital reproduction for publication, please see the Baylor University Libraries' Publication and Digital Reproduction Policy and Procedures. 4. Expectations for University Libraries Conduct All users have a right to use the services and facilities of the University Libraries without undue distraction or disturbance. No person shall act in a manner which is inconsistent with the general norms of research libraries. Furniture and equipment are provided for those who are here to use it now. Hoarding of resources (e.g. tables, chairs, white boards) is not permitted. Do not leave personal items unsupervised. Unattended items may be removed by Library staff. Personal items will be turned in to Library Lost and Found. The Libraries accept no responsibility for personal belongings. The Libraries provide research and study space. While clients may nod off from time to time, sleepers are a distraction and take space that might be used by others who are actively studying. People sleeping in the library will be asked to resume studying or to leave. No form of tobacco use is permitted in the Libraries, its gardens, or near entrances. Food may be consumed only in those areas designated as 24-hour study space. Beverages may be consumed in most other areas of Moody and Jones Libraries, but must be in containers with lids (secure, sealable lids are preferred). Trash and recycling receptacles are provided throughout the Libraries. Users are expected to dispose of their own trash and leave spaces at least as neat as they found them. Users shall not deface or damage Library furniture, equipment, or building surfaces. Animals, with the exception of registered service dogs, are not permitted within the Libraries. The Libraries reserve the right to inspect any bag, folder or other receptacle capable of containing library materials, particularly when a security alarm at one of the exits is activated. According to the University's definition of Student Misconduct, students are expected to cooperate and comply with any Baylor administrator, faculty member, or staff person, and to provide identification to these representatives of the University on request. These expectations apply to all persons in the Libraries. 5. HelpDesk+ Equipment Loan Policies governing loaned equipment from HelpDesk+ can be found on the HelpDesk+ site. 6. Lost and Found Are you searching for something that was potentially left in the Baylor Libraries? All lost & found items are gathered at the Information Desk on the first floor of Moody Memorial Library. If you have misplaced something, please inquire by phone to (254) 710-6702 or in person at the Information Desk. You can also complete an online form and we will notify you if the description you submit matches items collected. NOTE: Please include a detailed description of the lost item in the More Detail/Explanation area of the online form If there is information on a lost item that identifies the owner, the Baylor Libraries will try to contact the owner. Unclaimed items are periodically discarded or donated to charity. Please note that Baylor University is not responsible for any stolen items and/or additional charges to any of your personal accounts as a result. If you believe your missing item may have been stolen, contact Baylor Police at (254) 710-2222. 7. MakerSpace: Maker Policy Our MakerSpace policy is found in this research guide 8. MediaSpace Terms of Service Welcome to the Baylor Mediaspace homepage site ("Baylor Mediaspace"), a service provided by Baylor University's Electronic Library for Baylor employees and for Baylor students. By using the Baylor Mediaspace, you are bound by the following terms and conditions. We may change these terms at any time but will notify all users in advance of any material changes. Your continued use of the Baylor Mediaspace means that you accept any new or modified terms and conditions. Conduct: Baylor Mediaspace service seeks to provide useful resource to University students and employees wishing to create, manage, publish, and share media online. The same University policies and procedures that apply to your conduct on campus apply to your conduct on Baylor Mediaspace. You agree to use Baylor Mediaspace for lawful purposes only. You may not use or allow others to use Baylor Mediaspace to: - Post or transmit any content that is abusive, vulgar, obscene, hateful, fraudulent, threatening, harassing, defamatory, or which discloses private or personal matters concerning any person. - Post or transmit personal correspondence or email communications without the author's permission. - Post or transmit any material that you don't have the right to transmit under law. - Post, transmit, or link to sexually explicit material. - Impersonate any person, or falsely state or otherwise misrepresent your affiliation with a person or entity, including Baylor University. - Post or transmit any advertising, promotional materials, or other forms of solicitation including chain letters and pyramid schemes. - Intentionally violate any other applicable law or regulation while accessing and using our site. - Post or transmit any file that contains viruses, corrupted files, "Trojan Horses," or any other contaminating or destructive features that may damage someone else's computer. - Post or transmit any material that in any way violates the Baylor University policies or procedures. Baylor University may at any time, without prior notice and at its sole discretion, remove any post or terminate your ability to access the Baylor Mediaspace site for violating the above provisions. Copyright: The content on this site is protected by U.S. and international copyright laws and is the property of Baylor University and/or the providers of the content under license. By "content" we mean any information, mode of expression, or other materials and services found on the Baylor Mediaspace site. This includes the media, software, writings, graphics, and any and all other features found on the site. When you post content on Baylor Mediaspace, you might own the copyright in that content in accordance with the terms of Baylor's Intellectual Property Policy. If you own the copyright to the content posted, by participating in Baylor Mediaspace, you agree that Baylor University has an unlimited license to republish anything you post. For content in which Baylor owns the copyright, you may make one copy of such content that you find on this site for your personal, non-commercial use, provided that any material copied remains intact and includes the following notice: "Copyright _____ (insert year) Baylor University. All rights reserved." Any other copying, distribution, storing, or transmission of any kind, or any sort of commercial use of Baylor University Mediaspace content is prohibited without prior written permission from Baylor University. Nothing found on the Internet or from any third party should be posted or transmitted unless it is in the public domain, is determined to be a "Fair Use" (as defined by the Copyright Act), is properly licensed (including Creative Commons licenses), or is reproduced with permission. Baylor has an excellent Copyright Guidelines resource on its copyright website where more information is available. In addition to copyright compliance, the source for all third party content must be properly acknowledged or cited in order to prevent potential plagiarism issues. Merger, Choice of Law and Venue: If any provision in this Agreement is invalid, unenforceable, or nonsensical, the remaining provisions will continue in full force and effect. This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Texas (except with respect to choice of law). You agree that the proper forum for any claim arising under this Agreement will be the U.S. Court for the Western District of Texas or an appropriate Texas state court located in McLennan County Texas. 9. Responsible Use of Electronic Resources The Baylor University Libraries contracts with a variety of vendors and publishers to provide users with thousands of electronic resources (databases, abstracts, e-journals, full text, etc.) costing millions of dollars per year. In addition to paying for these resources, the Libraries typically negotiate license agreements that stipulate how and by whom these resources may be used. If license terms are violated by anyone, licensors usually have the right to temporarily suspend access for the entire University community! In some cases, licenses can be permanently revoked. You can help prevent problems with our electronic resource providers by adhering to good practices and avoiding improper use. Good Practices (or, things that are usually OK) Making limited print or electronic copies (e.g., single articles) Using these resources for personal, instructional or research needs Sharing materials with Baylor faculty, staff and students Posting links to specific content Improper Uses (or, things that are usually NOT OK) Systematic or substantial printing, copying or downloading (e.g., entire journal issues or books) Selling content, re-distributing content or providing content to an employer Sharing with people other than Baylor faculty, staff and students Posting actual content or articles to web sites, blogs or listservs Modifying, altering, or creating derivative works Always acknowledge your source on any published or unpublished document when you use data found on electronic resources. The Baylor University Libraries subscribes to RefWorks that provides invaluable assistance in the collection, management, and appropriate citation of references. Grey Areas Some resources allow inclusion for electronic reserves, course packs, and multiple copies for classroom use and interlibrary lending. Others explicitly forbid one or more of these activities. Sharing with non-Baylor users: This means peer-to-peer informal sharing for research, teaching and educational purposes. For example, if you are working with a colleague at another institution, and wish to make him/her aware of an article of mutual interest, you may send that article in print or electronically if this use is "allowed." Some publishers do not allow sharing with non-Baylor users, and only allow this activity with other authorized users within the Baylor University community. Course Reserves: Most electronic resources may be used for print or electronic reserves. If "Course Reserves Allowed" is indicated, then copyright clearance has already been granted. Reserves, both print and electronic, need to be secured and not made openly available. For more information, see Course Reserves Course Packs: Some electronic resources allow for limited portions, such as a single articles from a journal, to be reproduced and provided to students in a course pack. If "Course packs allowed" is indicated, then copyright clearance has already been granted for this use. In nearly all cases, course packs must be provided on a cost recovery basis only, and not sold for profit. If "Course packs not allowed" is indicated, then the material needs to have copyright cleared with the publisher before proceeding with inclusion in a course pack. Information on how to handle course packs at Baylor University can be found at the Baylor Copyright website. If you have questions about a particular resource, please send us an email For more information see Information Technology Services' Technology Usage Policy BU-PP 025. 10. Tobacco Use Policy Smoking and the use of all tobacco products including e-cigarettes or vaping devices are prohibited on all property that is owned, operated, leased, occupied or controlled by the University. No tobacco products of any type may be used in the University Libraries. This includes smokeless tobacco. Individuals found violating the tobacco policy will be asked to either dispose of their tobacco (including spit receptacles) or leave the library. They may also be asked to provide identification. Additional sanctions may be imposed on uncooperative or repeat offenders. About Contact Us Employment, Fellowships, and Internships Affordable Course Materials Summer Fellows Active Learning Lab Fellowship Baylor Libraries Summer Internship Programs Fundamentals of Data Research Fellowships Learning Design Fellowship Special Collections Teaching Fellowships Library Publications and Media Basic Information Inspiring Insight Baylor ITS and Libraries Magazine Our Libraries, Institutes, and Centers Media Inquiries Marketing & Communications Guidelines & Policies Scheduling Libraries on YouTube Libraries on YouTube Meet the Dean Mission & Vision Moody Starbucks People Find Your Librarian Organizational Charts Policies Publication & Digital Reproduction Policy & Procedures Spaces Study Zones in Moody-Jones Moody Pods Specialists Directory Archivists Arts and Special Collections Research Center Course Reserves Classroom Technology Data and Digital Scholarship Digital Humanities Digitization Exhibits Fundraising and Development Grants and Grantwriting HelpDesk+ (Technology Support) Information (Library Public Services) Library Instruction Instructional Design Makerspace Marketing and Communications Media Lab Metaliteracies OsoFast Campus Delivery OsoFast Interlibrary Loan Research Librarians Special Collections Visitor Information Map & Parking University Libraries One Bear Place #97148 Waco, TX 76798-7148 (254) 710-6702 Ask a Question libraryquestions@baylor.edu HoursHelp Desk+OneSearchMake a GiftSecurity Concerns? Call 254.710.2211Lost & Found General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Us Employment, Fellowships, and Internships Affordable Course Materials Summer Fellows Active Learning Lab Fellowship Baylor Libraries Summer Internship Programs Fundamentals of Data Research Fellowships Learning Design Fellowship Special Collections Teaching Fellowships Library Publications and Media Basic Information Inspiring Insight Baylor ITS and Libraries Magazine Our Libraries, Institutes, and Centers Media Inquiries Marketing & Communications Meet the Dean Mission & Vision Moody Starbucks People Find Your Librarian Organizational Charts Policies Publication & Digital Reproduction Policy & Procedures Spaces Study Zones in Moody-Jones Moody Pods Specialists Directory Archivists Arts and Special Collections Research Center Course Reserves Classroom Technology Data and Digital Scholarship Digital Humanities Digitization Exhibits Fundraising and Development Grants and Grantwriting HelpDesk+ (Technology Support) Information (Library Public Services) Library Instruction Instructional Design Makerspace Marketing and Communications Media Lab Metaliteracies OsoFast Campus Delivery OsoFast Interlibrary Loan Research Librarians Special Collections Visitor Information Map & Parking Research A-Z Databases Baylor Archival Repositories Database BEARdocs Borrow, Request, Renew Copyright Guidance Data & Digital Scholarship About Data & Digital Scholarship Data Research Fellows Data Scholar Workshops Data Visualization of the Week Projects and Tools Digital Collections High Performance and Research Computing Services HPRCS Services HPRCS Systems HPRCS Support HPRCS Staff Interlibrary Loan/OsoFast Distance Education & Faculty Abroad Library Services OsoFast Delivery Library Guides Managing Citations Off-campus Access OneSearch Research Support Data and Digital Scholarship Government Documents Library Literacies Liaison Program Public Services Discover Black Gospel Archive Black Gospel Music Preservation Project Black Gospel Music Royce-Darden Digital Collection Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center Black Gospel Preachers Project Distinctive Collections Baylor Athletics Archive Book Arts Collection The Browning Letters Texas Maps Collection Women's Collections Graduate Research Center GRC Map Makerspace Media Lab Moody and Jones Libraries New Student Resources Moody & Jones Virtual Tour 2022 Research Libraries, Institutes, and Centers Armstrong Browning Library and Museum Arts and Special Collections Research Center Institute for Oral History Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society W. R. Poage Legislative Library The Texas Collection and University Archives University Writing Center Learn Course Reserves Course Reading List Reserve Requests Form Events Voices & Vinyl 7 Past Events Exhibits Art in the Carrels: BU Student Artists A Stitched-Up Life: Presenting the Work of Dr. Mary Ruth Smith Creations 2022 Crosshatch Galleries National Pan-Hellenic 10th Anniversary Exhibit W. R. Poage Legislative Library Permanent Exhibit Past Exhibits History Fair Learning Together Library Literacies Workshops, Learning Opportunities & Training Visit Armstrong Browning Library and Museum About Collections Give to ABL Research & Instruction Visit Arts & Special Collections Research Center About Explore Special Collections Visit The Baylor Legal Research and Technology Center The Institute for Oral History About Give to the IOH Grants Research Resources Search Our Collection Social Media Student Resources Workshops The Keston Center for Religion, Politics & Society About Keston Collection Exhibits Give to the Keston Center Lectures and Symposia Research Visit Library and Academic Technology Services Experiential Learning Commons Learning Design Learning Spaces Learning Systems Contact LATS Moody and Jones Libraries Arts & Special Collections Research Center Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center HelpDesk+ and Experiential Learning Commons Hours Map and Location Guide Spaces University Writing Center The School of Education Learning Resource Center The Louise Herrington School of Nursing Learning Resource Center The Texas Collection and University Archives About The Texas Collection Collection Highlights Connect With Us On Social Media Research At The Texas Collection Texas Collection Visitor Information W. R. Poage Legislative Library About Collections Connect Give to the Poage Library Research Give Dean of Libraries Priorities Baylor Book Society & Library Endowed Book Fund Books for Bears and Bear Cubs Lanella Spinks Gray Baylor at Independence Fund Sue Margaret Hughes Library Internship Fund Graduate Research Center 2.0 Distinctive Collections Innovative Programming and Spaces Makerspace Upgrades Funding Opportunity Philanthropy's Impact on the Libraries Research Libraries, Institutes and Centers 2021 Development Highlights OsoFast Hours