Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Student Services Columbia University Medical School Fair Columbia University Medical School Fair Related Information Register for the Columbia University 2022 Medical School Fair Postbac Premed Student Council (PPSC) Columbia University Postbaccalaureate Premedical Program Applying to Medical School Postbac Premed Announcements Postbac Students Reimagine Medical School Fair in the Midst of a Pandemic Please join the Postbac Premed Student Council (PPSC) and the Postbaccalaureate Premedical Program at the Columbia University Medical School Fair where more than 20 medical schools and healthcare programs are expected to gather virtually to speak with prospective students from Columbia University, Barnard College, and other schools from around the New York Metro area. To learn more about the event, including attendees, breakout session topics, and more, read our recap article of the 2021 Medical School Fair. Register for the Columbia University 2022 Medical School Fair Expand all Collapse all Schedule of Events Saturday, February 5 - Saturday, April 2 Saturday, February 5 11 a.m. - 1 p.m. ET Kickoff & School Fit Panel Discussion During this first event of the 2022 Medical School Fair, the PPSC will welcome a combined panel of both premedical and medical program Deans. The conversation will prepare students for the following fair events by exploring how students should think about finding a medical school that will be right for them. Students will walk away with an understanding of how to assess their own needs, how to effectively learn about schools, and how to narrow down the list of programs they apply to. Register Attendees Dean Mike Allen: Senior Assistant Dean of Students - Columbia University, School of General Studies Post-baccalaureate Premedical Studies Dean Niki Cunningham: Senior Advising Dean - Columbia University, Columbia College Dean Noreen Kerrigan: Associate Dean of Admissions - Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Rafael Rivera: Associate Dean for Admissions and Financial Aid - NYU Grossman School of Medicine Dr. Rona Woldenberg: Associate Dean for Admissions - Donald and Barbara Zucker School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell Saturday, February 12 11 a.m. - 1 p.m. ET School Info Day #1 Students will enter breakout rooms to hear from schools one by one after a brief panel discussion introducing all five schools and their representatives. Schools will cover admissions, curriculum, student life and more. Register Attendees Rutgers New Jersey Medical School Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania Mount Sinai School of Medicine (Icahn) University of Virginia School of Medicine University of Rochester School of Medicine Saturday, February 19 11 a.m. - 1 p.m. ET DO School Panel Discussion This session will host four top-tier osteopathic medical schools: New York Institute of Technology College of Osteopathic Medicine (NYIT), Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine (PCOM), Rowan University School of Osteopathic Medicine, and Touro College of Osteopathic Medicine. The schools will not only discuss the details and advantages of a Doctorate of Osteopathic Medicine (DO degree), but will share information on their own individual schools and the merits of their own programs. Register Attendees New York Institute of Technology College of Osteopathic Medicine (NYIT) Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine (PCOM) Rowan University School of Osteopathic Medicine Touro College of Osteopathic Medicine Saturday, February 26 11 a.m. - 1 p.m. ET School Info Day #2 The second of four school information weekends; Columbia will host five distinguished medical schools. Students will enter breakout rooms to hear from schools one by one after a brief panel discussion introducing all five schools and their representatives. Schools will cover admissions, curriculum, student life and more. Register Attendees SUNY Downstate Health Sciences University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons (VP&S) University of Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine University of Miami Miller School of Medicine Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences Saturday, March 5 11 a.m. - 1 p.m. ET School Info Day #3 The third of four school information weekends; Columbia will host five distinguished medical schools. Students will enter breakout rooms to hear from schools one by one after a brief panel discussion introducing all five schools and their representatives. Schools will cover admissions, curriculum, student life and more. Register Attendees University of Michigan Medical School Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis Kaiser Permanente Bernard J. Tyson School of Medicine Sidney Kimmel Medical College - Thomas Jefferson University Saturday, March 26 11 a.m. - 1 p.m. ET School Info Day #4 The last of four school information weekends; Columbia will host five distinguished medical schools. Students will enter breakout rooms to hear from schools one by one after a brief panel discussion introducing all five schools and their representatives. Schools will cover admissions, curriculum, student life and more. Register Attendees University of Miami Miller School of Medicine Zucker School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell Dartmouth's Geisel School of Medicine Vanderbilt University School of Medicine The George Washington University School of Medicine & Health Sciences New York Medical College Saturday, April 2 11 a.m. - 1 p.m. ET DEI Panel Discussion & Close As a final event, Columbia is very excited to host a panel discussion from leaders in the field of diversity, equity and inclusion in medical education and care. Their discussion will cover DEI in admissions, curriculum, student affairs, healthcare systems and more across medicine in the United States. This session will be the conclusion to the 2022 Medical School Fair. Register Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close