Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Parent and Family Relations Menu Search TTU Parent and Family Relations Parent and Family Webinar Series Connect with Texas Tech staff members who can help your student succeed by participating in our Parent and Family Webinar Series! Register for the webinars by clicking the links below. If you are unable to attend the webinars, you may access recordings that will be posted on this page to view later. Webinar Series Schedule (All times are central time zone): Family Members and Guests: What to Expect at Red Raider Orientation - May 31, 2022, 3:30 p.m. - registration link Hear from staff from Parent & Family Relations and Red Raider Orientation about what to expect when you attend RRO with your new Texas Tech student. We will share schedule highlights, what to bring, and more! Preparing Financially for College - June 1, 2022, Noon - registration link Hear from representatives from Student Business Services and Student Financial Aid as they share information on how they can help your students and what you should know about financial support resources and how to pay the bill. Preparing for Health and Wellness at Texas Tech - June 22, 2022, Noon - registration coming soon Preparing Your Student for On-Campus Living - July 20th, 2022, Noon - registration coming soon (watch for the link in July) Staring the Fall Semester with Parent & Family Relations - August 17th, 2022, Noon - registration coming soon (watch for the link in August) Previous Webinar Recordings 2022 Webinars Finals Support Resources for Your Red Raiders - April 13, 2022 - view the recording Join us for a webinar discussion on the resources available to help your student thrive during final exams! Hear from The Learning Center and the TTU Library on ways your student can prepare for finals and have a successful end of the semester. Everyone Plays - Why Your Student Should be Participating with UREC - March 2, 2022 - view the recording Discover the countless opportunities to get involved with University Recreation. From group fitness classes to intramurals and even outdoor trips, hear from the UREC team about how your student can participate in these activities and more! Hot or Cold: Figuring Out Involvement For Your Student. - February 9, 2022 - view the recording Please join us for a webinar discussion how your student can participate in meaningful involvement opportunities on campus as well as how you can encourage them to get involved! 2021 Webinars University Career Services - Career Discussions to Have with your Student - December 1, 2021 - view the recording This conversation will highlight six strategies that parents and families can use to support their students' future careers and create meaningful experiences for personal and professional development over the holiday break. Brittainy Klemme and Ashley Penner with the University Career Center (UCC) will be available to talk through these strategies and ask any questions you have regarding UCC services. We hope to see you there! Top Five Financial Topics to Discuss with your Student - November 17, 2021 - view the recording Please join us on November 17th at 12 PM for a virtual webinar discussing The Top Five Financial Topics to Discuss with Your Student. Topics will range from financial aid to starting a first job after college and how Red to Black can help during all stages of your student's financial life! Families and Study Abroad - October 6, 2021 - view the recording Families are an important part of the study abroad decision making-process and as such, we are offering a webinar just for you! Tune in to learn more about program options, funding such as scholarships and financial aid, health, safety and more. Parent and Family Relations Like Parent and Family Relations on FacebookLike Parent and Family Relations on Facebook Follow Parent and Family Relations on twitterFollow Parent and Family Relations on twitter Subscribe to Parent and Family Relations on YouTubeSubscribe to Parent and Family Relations on YouTube Follow Parent and Family Relations on InstagramFollow Parent and Family Relations on Instagram Address 201Q Student Union Building, Box 42024, Lubbock, Texas 79409-2024 Phone 806.742.3630 Email parent@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 25, 2022 3:18 PM Parent and Family Relations Meet Our Staff/Contact Us Programs & Events Parent and Family Relations Programs & Events Back Family Weekend/Family Days Sibling Saturday Webinar Series Holiday Bus Trips Red Raider Orientation Parent & Family Relations Think Tank Resources for Parents and Families Parent and Family Relations Resources for Parents and Families Back Resources for Parents and Families Student Safety and Wellness Parents and Family Member of High School Students eNewletters & Publications How to Get Involved! Texas Tech Parents Association Información en español Parent and Family Relations Información en español Back ¡BIENVENIDOS, PADRES Y FAMILIAS! Ver esta pagina en español La guía del padres y la familia Lubbock, TX Parent and Family Relations Lubbock, TX Back City of Lubbock Hotel Accommodations Weather Visit Lubbock Map of Lubbock Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index