Skip to main content UCF Online Menu Online Programs Online BachelorsOnline Graduate DegreesOnline MastersOnline Graduate CertificatesOnline DoctoratesOnline Minors Areas of Interest Criminal JusticeEducationEngineeringHealthcareHospitalityLeadership and ManagementNursingPublic Service and Community Support Admissions Transfer AdmissionsGraduate AdmissionsInternational AdmissionsMilitary Admissions Tuition Tuition and CostsFinancial AidScholarshipsFee Waiver Student Support Online Student ResourcesTuition Support ScholarshipsUCF Online Connect CenterLearning OnlineDownloads Leadership and Management Sections Leadership Degrees Leadership Faculty Leadership News Training Tomorrow’s Leaders, Today Fill out the form below and we'll email you more information about UCF's online Leadership and Management programs. Name* First Last Phone* Email* Degree* Career and Technical Education, BSCareer and Workforce Education, MACollege Teaching and LeadershipCorrections LeadershipDestination Marketing and ManagementEducational Leadership, MAEmergency and Crisis Management, MECMEngineering Management, MSEvent ManagementHealth Informatics and Information Management, BSHealth Services Administration, BSHospitality Management, BSIndustrial Engineering, MSIELocal Director of Career & Technical EducationLodging and Restaurant Management, BSMaster of Public Administration, MPANonprofit ManagementNonprofit Management, MNMPolice LeadershipProject EngineeringPublic AdministrationSenior Living Management, BS Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Request Info Privacy Notice Search for a Degree POPULAR ONLINE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS Hospitality Management, BS Engineering Management, MS Executive Master of Health Administration, EMHA Online Leadership and Management Degrees and Certificates Now, more than ever, there is a growing need for exceptional leaders who can enact positive change, empower others, and contribute to a stronger, more unified world. UCF Online is proud to train the next generation of leadership and management — from nonprofit managers to educational leaders to health administrators — equipping them with the tools they need to transform lives and livelihoods. Students with diverse personal and professional experiences will find a home at UCF Online, where they are challenged to find innovative solutions to current problems facing public administration, healthcare, education, and more. Our accredited online leadership and management degree programs prepare students to develop unique solutions, guide teams to collaborate and problem-solve, and create a positive, lasting impact on our world. WHY SHOULD I GET A LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT DEGREE? Across the nation, management occupations account for more than 8 million jobs with a median wage of just over $50 per hour. The field is expected to continue adding positions, with a projected growth of 6.9% through 2028. And while a number of fields seek experienced workers for their leadership and management positions, industries seeing the greatest demand include retail, finance and insurance, and manufacturing. With UCF’s leadership and management online degree program, students have the flexibility to balance work and school concurrently. Coursework covers well-rounded skills needed to move up the ladder — from budgeting and operations management to problem solving and communication. Whether students are just starting out in the industry or taking the next step in their career, this program prepares them for a lifetime of success. 8 Million Management Jobs in 2019 6,847,452 Job Postings Between Jan 2019 and May 2020 6.9% Job Growth between 2018 and 2028 $ 77,423 Median Salary for Management Positions Nationwide According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics Explore UCF Online Leadership and Management Degrees Online Bachelor’s Degrees Health Informatics and Information Management, BS Online Bachelor’s from the College of Community Innovation and Education Health Services Administration, BS Online Bachelor’s from the College of Community Innovation and Education Hospitality Management, BS Online Bachelor’s from the Rosen College of Hospitality Management Restaurant & Foodservice Management, BS Online Bachelor’s from the Rosen College of Hospitality Management Senior Living Management, BS Online Bachelor’s from the Rosen College of Hospitality Management Technical Education and Industry Training, BS Online Bachelor’s from the College of Community Innovation and Education Online Master’s Degrees Applied Learning and Instruction, MA Online Master’s from the College of Community Innovation and Education Career and Technical Education, MA Online Master’s from the College of Community Innovation and Education Educational Leadership, MA Online Master’s from the College of Community Innovation and Education Emergency and Crisis Management, MECM Online Master’s from the College of Community Innovation and Education Engineering Management, MS Online Master’s from the College of Engineering and Computer Science Executive Master of Health Administration, EMHA Online Master’s from the College of Community Innovation and Education Hospitality and Tourism Management, MS Online Master’s from the Rosen College of Hospitality Management Industrial Engineering, MSIE Online Master’s from the College of Engineering and Computer Science Master of Public Administration, MPA Online Master’s from the College of Community Innovation and Education Nonprofit Management, MNM Online Master’s from the College of Community Innovation and Education Research Administration, MRA Online Master’s from the College of Community Innovation and Education Online Graduate Certificates College Teaching and Leadership Online Certificate from the College of Community Innovation and Education Corrections Leadership Online Certificate from the College of Community Innovation and Education Destination Marketing and Management Online Certificate from the Rosen College of Hospitality Management Fundraising Online Certificate from the College of Community Innovation and Education Juvenile Justice Leadership Online Certificate from the College of Community Innovation and Education Local Director of Career & Technical Education Online Certificate from the College of Community Innovation and Education Nonprofit Management Online Certificate from the College of Community Innovation and Education Police Leadership Online Certificates from the College of Community Innovation and Education Public Administration Online Certificate from the College of Community Innovation and Education Research Administration Certificate Online Certificate from the College of Community Innovation and Education Online education is the best way for working professionals to obtain a degree that works with their schedule while opening doors to better opportunities.” Dr. Lisa MartinoLecturer, Student Advisor, and CTE Academic Programs Coordinator Leadership and Management Education through UCF Online Our online leadership and management degree programs follow rigorous standards and are taught by the same award-winning faculty as our on-campus programs. With high-calibur curricula across a range of industries, students graduate from UCF Online prepared to make an immediate impact in their chosen fields. In fact U.S. News & World Report ranks UCF as one of the best graduate education programs for public leadership in the nation including public affairs, nonprofit management, and homeland security. Our flexible, online format and focus on innovation and excellence set UCF Online apart, allowing students to pursue certificate, undergraduate, and graduate programs in a format that fits their busy lives. Download Brochure Leadership and Management Faculty Thomas B. Cavanagh, PhD Vice Provost for Digital Learning Claire Connolly Knox, PhD Associate Professor Naim Kapucu, PhD Pegasus Professor and Director School of Public Administration Staci M. Zavattaro PhD Associate Professor Sergio Alvarez, PhD Assistant Professor Latest Leadership and Management News How can applied learning make your life better? Senior Living Management: The Rewards of Being a Leader in Senior Care 5 Tips for Managing Remote Teams Sustainability in Hospitality: Why It Is Important and How Industry Leaders Can Help How to Be a Leader at Work: 5 Essentials for Making a Difference Business Continuity vs. Disaster Recovery: 5 Key Differences 6 Leadership Styles in Business for the Modern Manager The Disaster Management Cycle: 5 Key Stages & How Leaders Can Help Prepare Sustainable Event Management: Definition, Examples and Resources Connect with a Coach × Fill out the form below and one of our success coaches will contact you about the online Leadership and Management programs. Name* First Last Phone* Email* Degree* Career and Technical Education, BSCareer and Workforce Education, MACollege Teaching and LeadershipCorrections LeadershipDestination Marketing and ManagementEducational Leadership, MAEmergency and Crisis Management, MECMEngineering Management, MSEvent ManagementHealth Informatics and Information Management, BSHealth Services Administration, BSHospitality Management, BSIndustrial Engineering, MSIELocal Director of Career & Technical EducationLodging and Restaurant Management, BSMaster of Public Administration, MPANonprofit ManagementNonprofit Management, MNMPolice LeadershipProject EngineeringPublic AdministrationSenior Living Management, BS Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Request Info Privacy Notice Get Connected. Contact the UCF Online Connect Center to learn more about the available online programs or for help finding an online degree that works for you. Hours of Operation: Mon – Fri: 8 a.m. – 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Call Now Why earn a degree from UCF Online? Access. Innovation. Impact. UCF Online is a community of thinkers, helpers and makers who use bold ideas to challenge the ordinary and devise solutions to solve the world’s most pressing problems. A great university can unleash the potential to change the world. Listed as one of the most innovative universities in the nation by the U.S. News & World Report’s Best Colleges 2021 Guide, UCF specializes in providing high-quality online degree programs for those talented students and working professionals who are unable to physically attend our Orlando main campus or one of our 14 Central Florida locations. Online Degree Programs Online Bachelor’s Online Master’s Online Graduate Certificates Online Doctorates Online Minors Top Online Healthcare Programs Top Online Engineering Programs Top Online Hospitality Programs Top Online Public Service Degrees Top Online Leadership & Management Degrees Top Online Education Degrees Admissions Info Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Military Admissions Tuition Tuition and Costs Financial Aid Fee Waiver Student Support Online Student Resources UCF Online Connect Center All Student Resources Learning Online Downloads Complaint Submission About UCF Videos Accreditation About UCF News Top Online Degree Rankings Privacy Notice Contact Us Faculty Support 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 Call today • 855-903-8576 Hours of Operation: Mon - Fri: 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube State Restrictions Complaint Resolution © 2022 University of Central Florida