Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Educational Leadership (MA) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Ed Ldrshp & Higher Education In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The online Master of Arts in Educational Leadership program is not a state-approved program for certification in Florida. The program is designed to prepare students for administrative and leadership positions in school settings and other education-related fields that specifically do NOT require Florida certification. Some examples include administrative positions outside of Florida, around the nation and world, a private school headmaster, charter school administrator, community college or university staff administrator, or museum administrator. The Educational Leadership MA also offers two tracks focused on higher education: Higher Education/Student Personnel and College Teaching and Leadership, both of which have different admission, enrollment, and graduation requirements. The Higher Education/College Teaching and Leadership track is designed for individuals whose goal is to teach at the community college level. The Higher Education/Student Personnel track is designed to prepare students for leadership positions in a variety of student personnel/affairs departments on college and university campuses and education-related fields. Note, these programs have different admission, enrollment, and graduation requirements. The Educational Leadership MA program requires a minimum of 30 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree, including 9 credit hours of research and measurement courses and 21 credit hours of administration courses. The courses may be taken in any order the student wishes but the culminating Research Report (EDA 6909) must be taken last. For student convenience and planning, at least two administration courses are projected to be offered each semester and the EDF courses offered each semester. Students enrolled in the Florida state-approved MEd, EdS, or Modified Core programs in educational leadership may not take these online courses for credit unless approved by their educational leadership faculty adviser. The MA program does not fulfill Florida certification requirements. Total Credit Hours Required: 30 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Please note: Educational Leadership, MA may be completed fully online, although not all associated tracks, elective options, or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at 407-823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Request Information View Full Description Program Tracks/Options Higher Education/College Teaching and Leadership Higher Education/Student Personnel Application Deadlines Domestic International Spring December 1 Summer April 1 Fall July 1 Spring July 1 Summer November 1 Fall January 15 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. College Provost Dean Of Students District Administrator Human Resources Administrator Instructional Coordinator Headmaster Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Masters Educational Leadership (MA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Educational Leadership (MA) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The online Master of Arts in Educational Leadership program is not a state-approved program for certification in Florida. The program is designed to prepare students for administrative and leadership positions in school settings and other education-related fields that specifically do NOT require Florida certification. Some examples include administrative positions outside of Florida, around the nation and world, a private school headmaster, charter school administrator, community college or university staff administrator, or museum administrator. The Educational Leadership MA also offers two tracks focused on higher education: Higher Education/Student Personnel and College Teaching and Leadership, both of which have different admission, enrollment, and graduation requirements. The Higher Education/College Teaching and Leadership track is designed for individuals whose goal is to teach at the community college level. The Higher Education/Student Personnel track is designed to prepare students for leadership positions in a variety of student personnel/affairs departments on college and university campuses and education-related fields. Note, these programs have different admission, enrollment, and graduation requirements. The Educational Leadership MA program requires a minimum of 30 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree, including 9 credit hours of research and measurement courses and 21 credit hours of administration courses. The courses may be taken in any order the student wishes but the culminating Research Report (EDA 6909) must be taken last. For student convenience and planning, at least two administration courses are projected to be offered each semester and the EDF courses offered each semester. Students enrolled in the Florida state-approved MEd, EdS, or Modified Core programs in educational leadership may not take these online courses for credit unless approved by their educational leadership faculty adviser. The MA program does not fulfill Florida certification requirements. Total Credit Hours Required: 30 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Please note: Educational Leadership, MA may be completed fully online, although not all associated tracks, elective options, or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at 407-823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Degree Requirements Research and Measurement 9 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: EDF6481 - Fundamentals of Graduate Research in Education (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: EDF6401 - Statistics for Educational Data (3) EDF6432 - Measurement and Evaluation in Education (3) Earn at least 3 credits from the following: EDA6909 - Research Report (1 - 99) Administration 21 Total Credits Complete the following: EDA6062 - Leadership in Educational Organizations (3) EDA6228 - Human Resource Processes in Education (3) EDA6234 - Personnel and Education Related Law (3) EDA6246 - Basic Education Funding and Management (3) EDA6275 - Digital Leadership and Systems Management (3) EDA6303 - Organizations and the Community (3) EDA6932 - Issues in Education (3) Grand Total Credits: 30 Application Requirements Applicants may apply to the online MA in Educational Leadership or one of the two tracks offered within the MA in Higher Education. The higher education track programs are not online programs and may have different requirements. For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Resume/CV 1 Letter of Recommnedation Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Application Deadlines Educational Leadership MA *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 Apr 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 Nov 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida