Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home News 2022 Grad Profile: Darin Sawan Profile 2022 Grad Profile: Darin Sawan April 27, 2022 Darin Sawan Undergraduate Where are you from? Cairo, Egypt and Queens, NYC Major: Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African studies; and sustainable development Tell us about your path to GS! I never thought I would be here today, graduating from Columbia University! I took several gap years after high school and worked with nonprofit organizations bringing in refugees from countries such as Egypt after the 2011 uprising. I went on to work with embassies and dignitaries in New York, where I assisted individuals coming for humanitarian assistance. I felt that I accomplished a lot even without a college degree, but I wanted to elevate myself and my understanding of politics. I was initially afraid to even attempt to apply to Columbia. As an Egyptian first-generation college student, I didn’t think I had a chance or that my voice mattered. But what’s important is just taking the first step. I always think of the proverb “The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. The second best time is now.” I had to stop thinking of when would be the "perfect time" to go back to school and just do it! Attending Columbia and majoring in Middle Eastern studies and sustainable development has challenged me, but as a result I’ve achieved things I never thought I was capable of. What has been your proudest Columbia moment? Working on an honors thesis in Middle Eastern studies and being asked to speak to new students at orientation have been some of my favorite highlights at Columbia. Who are some people who have contributed the most to your Columbia experience? I would not be in this position of graduating today if it wasn't for my financial aid advisor Christopher Connelly and my academic advisor Dean Kristy Barbacane. I never imagined I could afford a Columbia education, but the financial aid office has helped me every step of the way, making it possible for me to graduate in three years. What advice would you give to a Columbia student starting their GS journey? You are admitted to Columbia, and you belong here! Don’t let imposter syndrome consume you and utilize all the programs and resources the University has to offer. Most importantly, don’t be afraid to reach out for help from your academic or financial aid advisor. Tags Student Profile Undergraduate News May 27, 2022 Join Us: Columbia Reunion Weekend in New York City May 26, 2022 Lewisohn Hall Summer Closure | Summer 2022 Temporary Relocation to Uris Hall May 26, 2022 Postbac Premed Program Institutional Scholarship Application May 24, 2022 GS Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Ceremony May 24, 2022 Academic Resource Center Summer Offerings Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close