Chancellor Offices Directory Contact Us About Us Leadership Our Universities Giving Reports Policies Home / Offices TTU System Administration Organizational Chart From here, the offices at the Texas Tech University System provide central management and coordination of multiple services to assist our component institutions in meeting the global challenges of today and the future. Whether it is managing certain funds and endowments; carrying out the Board of Regents’ rules and policies; constructing and renovating buildings; or implementing strategic plans, the TTU System offers key insight and value to further higher education in the state. The Offices that Make it Possible Audit Services Works with the TTU System in identifying, avoiding, and mitigating risks, as well as preventing fraud, waste or abuse. Board of Regents A governing committee composed of individuals who seek to further higher education, health care, research and outreach for the betterment of the TTU System. Office of the Chancellor Headquarters for the chief executive officer, and his staff, for all component institutions and academic sites for the TTU System. Office of the Chief Financial Officer Serves as a financial liaison to the board, foundation, donors, state agencies, management and the TTU System’s universities. Through a multitude of services, the office serves as a resource for all areas of the TTU System Administration. Employment & Personnel Employment opportunities and human resources responsibilities are managed by Texas Tech University. Equal Opportunity Monitors compliance with equal employment opportunity laws and ensures employees and applicants of the TTU System are treated fairly, equally and respectfully. Facilities Planning & Construction Provides support for campus master planning, campus art, project updates and vendor information for all component institutions. General Counsel Provides legal services, advice and representation for the TTU System Administration and each of its component institutions. Governmental Relations Responsible for managing federal and state governmental relations for the TTU System and its component universities. Information Technology Provides information systems solutions, technology operation and systems management, and communication services for the TTU System and its component universities. Institutional Advancement Serves as the fundraising office for the TTU System by encouraging contributions and raising money for student scholarships, faculty support and cutting-edge research. Leader & Culture Development Supports the values-based culture and leadership development initiatives for the TTU System and its component universities. Office of Investments Manages all areas of investment for the TTU System and its component institutions. The department strives to obtain the highest possible returns on the funds of the TTU System’s endowment, in accordance with oversight established by the Board of Regents. Risk Management Works with the component institutions of the TTU System on duties such as workers' compensation, automobile claims, third party claims, contractual review, insurance acquisition, public access defibrillation, drug screening, driver approval, loss prevention, consultative services and emergency management. System Relations Serves as a centralized resource that fosters coordination and relationships between multiple stakeholders of the TTU System, its offices and with component institutions through events and community engagement. Office of Treasury Responsible for managing the TTU System's operating cash, debt issuance, investor relations and tax-exempt post-issuance compliance. Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | Careers | Site Map | Webmaster Texas Tech University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Angelo State University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso Midwestern State University State of Texas Statewide Search Online Institutional Resumes Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal SAO Fraud Reporting Energy Management TTU System Regulations General Policy Information Title IX Open Records Requests ©2013 Texas Tech University System 1508 Knoxville Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409 806.742.2011 ©