Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date April 28, 2022 2022-04-28 Media Contact Jill Kimball [email protected] 401-863-5450 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Photos: Drumming, dancing and revelry at the 19th annual Spring Thaw Powwow The student-organized event celebrated the arrival of a new season with music, dancing, food, Native American art and workmanship, games and more. 1 of 7 The annual Spring Thaw Powwow, held at Pizzitola Sports Center, provided an opportunity for Native and Indigenous communities at Brown and across Southern New England to gather for a day of dancing, music, food, games and more. All photos: Nick Dentamaro/Brown University. 2 of 7 The event featured drumming by several members of local Native and Indigenous communities. 3 of 7 Junior Ashlyn Lovato, left, coordinated the event with fellow student Raelee Fourkiller, a senior. First-year student Nkéke Harris, right, was one of the event's performers and is a member of the Narragansett Indian Tribe. 4 of 7 University President Christina H. Paxson, right, stopped by the event to connect with students, staff and community members, including Lovato. 5 of 7 Senior Sherenté Harris, center, performed at the event. Harris, a member of the Narragansett Indian Tribe, is passionate about Fancy Shawl dancing, a physically demanding Native American activity. 6 of 7 The annual powwow takes months to organize in collaboration with community partners and campus leaders — including Donna Rae Gould, right, executive director of Brown's Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative. 7 of 7 The family-friendly affair featured craft projects and treat handouts for children. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Indigenous traditions from across the globe took center stage at the 19th annual Spring Thaw Powwow at Brown in late April. The event — organized each year by the Brown Center for Students of Color's Native American Heritage Series, with support from the student organization Natives at Brown and several University departments and centers — celebrates the arrival of a new season with dancing, food, Native American art and workmanship, games and more. The first in-person gathering since 2019 drew hundreds from the Brown and local communities, both Native and Indigenous and otherwise; attendees spanned several home states and generations. This year’s student organizers were senior Raelee Fourkiller, who identifies as Cherokee, and junior Ashlyn Lovato, a member of Santa Clara Pueblo. In an email to the Brown Daily Herald, Fourkiller said the powwow presented an opportunity not only for Native and Indigenous groups to bond over shared experiences but also for non-Indigenous Brown students to gather new insights into Indigenous life. “Native students on campus are always in this delicate and precisely configured situation,” Fourkiller wrote. “We’re hyper-invisible — meaning, people know we’re here, but what do we actually do and how do we feel?” The family-friendly affair featured coloring and treat handouts for children, drumming and dancing, food from a variety of Indigenous traditions, and the chance to browse handmade clothing, jewelry and art. As is tradition, the Spring Thaw Powwow coincided with A Day on College Hill, when recently admitted students have a chance to visit Brown and experience a taste of campus life. The last of three ADOCH events took place one day before — giving some admitted Indigenous students the opportunity to attend the powwow the next day and connect with members of Brown’s Indigenous community. Tags Campus Life Clubs and Organizations Related news: News and Events $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission June 1, 2022 The largest gift for international financial aid in University history, from alumni Aysha and Omar Shoman, will expand Brown’s ability to educate the most exceptional international students from all socioeconomic groups. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Photos: Drumming, dancing and revelry at the 19th annual Spring Thaw Powwow Open details for Photos: Drumming, dancing and revelry at the 19th annual Spring Thaw Powwow Bookmark this Page