Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Population Health Menu Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Home Population Health Latest news and updates May 26, 2022 Initiative announces summer 2022 cohort of Applied Research Fellows The Population Health Initiative announced the selection of four graduate students and one undergraduate student as the 2022 cohort of the Applied Research Fellowship program. Launched in 2019, the Applied Research Fellowship was created – and continues to be run – in partnership with the University of Washington’s Center for Studies in Demography & Ecology…. Read more May 24, 2022 Pilot project seeks to revamp methods of counting homeless populations in King County The current method of counting individuals experiencing homelessness centers on national “point in time” census-like counts conducted once a year, which are proven to miss many hidden individuals while being highly inefficient. Dr. Amy Hagopian, professor in the University of Washington School of Public Health, is leading an interdisciplinary team awarded a Tier 2 Population… Read more May 19, 2022 Increased economic support positively impacts maternal health A team of University of Washington researchers conducted a study determining the impact of Earned Income Tax Credits (EITC) on alcohol misuse and symptoms of depression among women who had recently given birth. They found an inverse correlation between more generous EITC payments and the risks in question, highlighting the benefits of anti-poverty policies on… Read more May 17, 2022 WATRIBAL supports food equity and access for tribal communities during COVID-19 The Population Health Initiative hosted students and faculty on May 3, 2022 for a presentation of, “WATRIBAL Project: Assessing food security and traditional foods access in WA State tribal communities during the COVID-19 pandemic,” by Dr. Victoria Warren Mears, Northwest Tribal Epidemiology Center Director, and Dr. Jennifer J. Otten, Associate Professor for the UW Dept…. Read more May 16, 2022 Initiative announces awardees of spring quarter 2022 Tier 1 pilot research grants The Population Health Initiative has announced the award of 11 Tier 1 pilot grants to teams representing researchers from seven different University of Washington schools and colleges, plus UW Tacoma and multiple community-based partners. The total value of these 11 awards is $358,706, which included $266,843 from the initiative plus additional school, college and departmental… Read more May 11, 2022 Honorees announced for 2022 undergraduate research recognition awards The Population Health Initiative has awarded Population Health Recognitions to 20 students – representing 16 different projects – participating in the Undergraduate Research Symposium for their innovative and well-presented research work. In partnership with the Undergraduate Research Program, this award was created as an opportunity for students across all three campuses presenting at the annual… Read more May 9, 2022 Initiative releases 2020-22 Report to the Community The Population Health Initiative was launched six years ago by the University of Washington with the goal of bringing our university together with our partners in a more interdisciplinary and collaborative way to help create a world where all people can live healthier and more fulfilling lives. While the initiative was not launched with a… Read more May 5, 2022 Initiative announces selection of summer 2022 Social Entrepreneurship Fellows The Population Health Initiative announced the selection of four graduate fellows for the summer 2022 cohort of the Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Program, which runs in partnership with the Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship, CoMotion and the Evans School of Public Policy & Governance. The fellows will spend 10 weeks over the summer producing innovative solutions and… Read more May 3, 2022 Spotlight: Holly Schindler strives to support equity in early childhood policies and practices Dr. Holly Schindler strives for equitable programs and systems of education for children and families in all areas of her career. Her passion for early childhood emerged early on and led to her sustained focus on early childhood policies and practices through community-based research. Schindler is both the chair and an associate professor of learning… Read more April 28, 2022 New research finds crowdfunding for medical bills is inequitable, not much of a safety net A recent study conducted by Nora Kenwothy, an associate professor of nursing and health studies at University of Washington Bothell, and a team of UW researchers determined that despite popular belief, people in states with higher medical debt and lower insurance coverage rates are less likely to be successful through methods of medical crowdfunding. The… Read more Next page What is population health? Population health is a broad concept encompassing not only the elimination of diseases and injuries, but also the intersecting and overlapping factors that influence health. Learn more Population Health Twitter Tweets by UW_PHI Please enable JavaScript to view this widget. Events calendar University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA