COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News April 09, 2020pandemicInnovation CampuscommunityInnovationPPE Ad Astra Coalition created to help in the fight against COVID-19 By WSU Strategic Communications A coalition of businesses and government partners, the Ad Astra Coalition has joined together to answer some of the challenges being created in Wichita and Kansas by the COVID-19 pandemic. The coalition is co-led by Airbus Americas Engineering, Spirit AeroSystems, Textron Aviation, Wichita State University and WSU Tech. The coalition is using a two-phased approach: For phase one, the coalition will focus on creating and distributing critical personal protective equipment (PPE) for the medical community and first responders. It is hoped the PPE will help address the shortages being experienced throughout the state of Kansas, including Sedgwick County. Examples of PPE currently being considered include temporary face shields and disposable stethoscopes. The coalition is also exploring the possibility of providing disposable barrier gowns and intubation boxes. The second phase will focus on the recovery efforts after the pandemic subsides. Once social distancing efforts are no longer required, everyone will experience a transition period to return to a sense of normalcy. The coalition will seek to aid the people of Sedgwick County and south-central Kansas as these communities resume their daily activities. While it is not yet known the exact types of resources that will be needed, the members of the Ad Astra Coalition will seek to provide assistance through outreach efforts and other programs. The COVID-19 pandemic is a complex, challenging and fluid situation that continues to evolve rapidly. The coalition will do its best efforts to quickly respond to emerging needs of our community and region. To help support the initiatives of the coalition, the WSU Foundation has created the COVID-19 Innovation Forward Fund. Learn more about donating to the cause at https://foundation.wichita.edu/innovationforward. “It is so inspiring to see the community rally together to use innovation to protect those who protect us,” says Wichita State President Jay Golden. COVID-19 Innovation Forward Fund The Innovation Forward Fund supports the initiatives of the Ad Astra Coalition. Learn more about donating to the fund Read more stories like this Related Stories computer science Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters computer science Student-created parking app concept wins 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge WSU Foundation Wichita State entrepreneurs win Women for Women award Talent Pipeline Home for digital transformation rising on Innovation Campus 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©