Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Research Menu About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact Data Sciences Research Baylor>Research>Highlights>Data Sciences Data Sciences Research Data Sciences is a rapidly advancing, interdisciplinary field that relies on techniques and theories drawn from machine learning, data mining, digital communication and more. From biomedical informatics, cybersecurity and business analytics to advances that build understanding in environmental science, family health and clean water, learn more about Baylor data sciences research. Apr. 6, 2022 The Meaning of R1 Baylor's R1 status is far more than an elite club or glossy résumé item. It positions Baylor to have a significant impact around the world. Baylor faculty explain what that means to them in Baylor Magazine. Read More Feb. 17, 2022 WATCH: Baylor's Journey to R1 Baylor's pursuit of R1 recognition became official in 2019, but the roots of the the University's elite R1 attainment date back more than 20 years. See how visionary moves and a purposeful path guided Baylor to preeminence as a Christian research university. Read More Jan. 31, 2022 University-Wide Alignment Key in Baylor’s R1 Recognition Vice Provost for Research Kevin Chambliss explains how alignment from Baylor administration, faculty and staff advanced Baylor's R1 aspirations and rapid attainment. Read More Jan. 14, 2022 From Vision to Reality: Baylor Achieves R1 Recognition From the moment Baylor officially announced its pursuit of R1 recognition in 2019, the University has been on a purposeful path that reached an elite benchmark faster than anyone anticipated. Read More Dec. 19, 2021 Baylor Among Elite Group of Private R1 Institutions Baylor's ascension to R1 research recognition places the University among an elite group of just 37 private institutions recognized for "very high research activity" Read More Dec. 16, 2021 Baylor University Earns Prestigious Research 1 Status Baylor University has been named a Research 1 university by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, joining the nation’s top-tier research institutions as a doctoral university with very high research activity and elevating Baylor as a preeminent Christian research university. Read More Nov. 5, 2021 100 New Faculty Hires to Advance Next Five-Year Framework for Illuminate During its regular fall meeting, the Baylor University Board of Regents affirmed the framework for the next five years of Illuminate, the University’s strategic plan, including hiring 100 new faculty to accelerate the University toward Research 1 status as the preeminent Christian research university. Read More Oct. 29, 2021 Baylor and Harvard Researchers Partner in Long-Term, Global Study of Human Flourishing Researchers at Harvard University and Baylor University launch the largest initiative of its kind to investigate the determinants of human flourishing in a $43.4 million, five-year longitudinal study of 240,000 individuals in 22 countries. Read More Data Sciences Research News Archive Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact