COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Music Education - Keyboard, Major MajorMusic Education - Keyboard All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Music Wichita State's Bachelor of Music Education (BME)—keyboard—combines professional training with experienced music educators, real-world teaching experience in local schools, and virtually countless opportunities to perform, in venues big and small, on campus and throughout Kansas' center of arts and culture. Learn how music education - keyboard is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Fine Arts, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. Once you're admitted to WSU, you'll need to schedule an audition through the School of Music. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Piano major finds early success as a freshman Fine arts students have the opportunity to pursue their passions and expand their experiences. Piano major Patrick Orr's interest in the piano began after he watched “Titanic” as a kid and decided to learn how to play the hymn “Nearer My God to Thee.” As just a freshman, Orr won the grand prize in the Kansas City Symphony Young Artist Competition. As the winner of the competition, Orr received the honor of accompanying the Kansas City Symphony in two performances. Curriculum The curriculum is divided into general education, music performance, music theory and history, and music education—including applied learning in K-12 classrooms—equipping you with the knowledge, skills and confidence needed to start your successful teaching career. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Music Composition Music Performance - Keyboard Special Music Education Music 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©