Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Getting Here Where in the World Is Rutgers? New Brunswick Newark Camden On This page Planes, Trains, and Automobiles … Getting to Rutgers Planes, Trains, and Automobiles … Getting to Rutgers Rutgers' three main geographic locations in New Brunswick, Newark, and Camden, New Jersey, are conveniently located near and easily accessed from New Jersey’s major highways and train stations. Whether you’re visiting, attending classes, or working here, you’re always close to the vibrant hubs found in New Jersey, New York, and Philadelphia. That means you are never far from internships and jobs, culture, and entertainment. New Jersey’s convenient location and Rutgers’ presence throughout the state are a winning combination On This page Getting to New Brunswick Distance to East Coast Cities Distance to Area Airports Public Transportation and Highways Parking and On-Campus Transit Getting to New Brunswick Centrally located, getting to Rutgers’ locations in New Brunswick is easy. Part of Rutgers–New Brunswick is also located in nearby Piscataway, New Jersey. Directions to Rutgers–New Brunswick New Brunswick campus map Looking for Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences locations? The schools and research centers and institutes that comprise Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) are located in New Brunswick, Piscataway, Newark, and other areas throughout the state such as Blackwood, Scotch Plains, Somerset, and Stratford. The information here is for RBHS locations in or near New Brunswick. Distance to East Coast Cities Trenton - 25 miles Newark - 27 miles New York - 36 miles Philadelphia - 65 miles Camden - 67 miles Baltimore - 158 miles Washington D.C. - 197 miles Boston - 249 miles Distance to Area Airports Newark Liberty International - 24 miles Trenton Mercer - 28 miles Teterboro - 39 miles John F. Kennedy (JFK) International - 48 miles LaGuardia - 54 miles Philadelphia International - 73 miles Atlantic City International - 105 miles Public Transportation and Highways New Jersey Transit Train New Jersey Transit Bus Suburban Transit Bus Major Highways New Jersey Turnpike (U.S. Interstate 95) Garden State Parkway U.S. Interstate 287 U.S. Highway 1 Parking and On-Campus Transit Visitor Parking Information Student Parking Information Faculty/Staff Parking Information Campus Bus/Shuttle Bike Rental On This page Getting to Newark Distance to East Coast Cities Distance to Area Airports Public Transportation and Highways Parking and On-Campus Transit Getting to Newark All roads (and rail lines) lead to Newark, New Jersey’s largest city. Home to Rutgers University–Newark and the Health Sciences Campus, Newark is centrally located and easily accessible. Directions to Rutgers–Newark Campus map for Rutgers–Newark and RBHS–Newark Looking for Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences locations? The schools and research centers and institutes that comprise Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) are located in New Brunswick, Piscataway, Newark, and other areas throughout the state such as Blackwood, Scotch Plains, Somerset, and Stratford. Distance to East Coast Cities New York - 11 miles New Brunswick - 27 miles Trenton - 58 miles Philadelphia - 86 miles Camden - 88 miles Baltimore - 179 miles Washington D.C. - 218 miles Boston - 224 miles Distance to Area Airports Newark Liberty International - 4 miles Teterboro - 13 miles LaGuardia - 29 miles John F. Kennedy (JFK) International - 38 miles Trenton Mercer - 63 miles Philadelphia International - 93 miles Atlantic City International - 116 miles Public Transportation and Highways New Jersey Transit Train New Jersey Transit Bus PATH Train New Jersey Transit Light Rail Amtrak Train Major Highways New Jersey Turnpike (U.S. Interstate 95) Garden State Parkway U.S. Interstate 280 U.S. Route 9 Parking and On-Campus Transit Visitor Parking Information Student Parking Information Faculty/Staff Parking Information Campus Bus/Shuttle On This page Getting to Camden Distance to East Coast Cities Distance to Area Airports Public Transportation and Highways Parking and On-Campus Transit Getting to Camden Nestled along the Delaware River and across from Philadelphia, Camden, New Jersey, is easily accessible from points north and south. Get directions to Rutgers–Camden Rutgers–Camden map Distance to East Coast Cities Philadelphia - 4 miles Trenton - 43 miles New Brunswick - 62 miles Newark - 83 miles New York - 91 miles Baltimore - 103 miles Washington D.C. - 142 miles Boston - 304 miles Distance to Area Airports Philadelphia International - 13 miles Trenton Mercer - 35 miles Atlantic City International - 50 miles Newark Liberty International - 79 miles Teterboro - 95 miles John F. Kennedy (JFK) International - 104 miles LaGuardia - 109 miles Public Transportation and Highways New Jersey Transit Train New Jersey Transit Bus Port Authority Transit Corporation (PATCO) Train Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA) Train RiverLink Ferry Major Highways New Jersey Turnpike (U.S. Interstate 95) Atlantic City Expressway U.S. Interstate 295 Parking and On-Campus Transit Visitor Parking Information Student Parking Information Faculty/Staff Parking Information Campus Shuttle Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster