Skip to main content Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Map Directory bConnected News Toggle navigation Map Directory bConnected News About From a group of academic pioneers in 1868 to the Free Speech Movement in 1964, Berkeley is a place where the brightest minds from across the globe come together to explore, ask questions and improve the world. Overview By the numbers History & discoveries Traditions Experience Berkeley Visit Leadership Admissions Want to change the world? At Berkeley we’re doing just that. When you join the Golden Bear community, you’re part of an institution that shifts the global conversation every single day. Overview Undergraduate Graduate Financial aid Tuition UC Berkeley Extension Summer sessions Study abroad Academics Berkeley is home to some of the world's greatest minds leading more than 130 academic departments and 80 interdisciplinary research units and addressing the world’s most pertinent challenges. Overview Schools & colleges Departments & programs Class schedule & courses Advising & tutoring Faculty profiles Academic calendar Research From expeditions to Egypt in the late 1800s to stem cell research and artificial intelligence today, Berkeley has been at the forefront of research throughout its history. Here students can work side-by-side with Nobel Laureates, Fields medal winners, Fulbright Scholars and MacArthur fellows. Overview Research programs Libraries Publications Museums & collections Undergraduate research Campus Life Life at Berkeley blends research and reflection, the scientific with the artistic, and the scholarly with the athletic. Our students come from different places and backgrounds, but together they create a diverse and kinetic community that seeks to create a better world. Overview Events & attractions Recreational Sports Cal Athletics Housing & dining Student organizations Health & safety Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Reporting(HEERF) The Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) is administered by the U.S. Department of Education and provides funding to address higher education challenges created by the COVID‐19 pandemic. As of summer 2021, there have been three rounds of this funding and UC Berkeley has been granted funding in each round. The well-being and health of our students, staff, and faculty are our top priority. To comply with reporting requirements and to offer transparency to our community, we are providing details about our use of these funds. HEERF I - CARES Act HEERF II - CRRSAA HEERF III - ARP Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) I - Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act or CARES Act The Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) I, part of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act or CARES Act, was passed by Congress on March 27, 2020. UC Berkeley received the first round of funding in 2020 and of that funding, $15,220,314 was distributed to fund emergency financial aid grants to eligible undergraduate and graduate students. Of the $30,440,627 allocated to UC Berkeley as part of the CARES Act, $15,220,313 was awarded to the institution and this portion was used primarily to support the housing refunds to students who had to vacate their housing under COVID-19 restrictions. Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) II - Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act HEERF II was authorized by the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2021or CRRSAA and was signed into law on December 27, 2020. UC Berkeley received $45,429,825 from HEERF II, of which $15,220,314 will directly support students. The institutional portion will help mitigate financial impacts directly related to the impact of COVID-19. Eligibility requirements are being clarified by the Department of Education. Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) III - American Rescue Plan HEERF III will be allocated under the $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan or ARP and was signed into law on March 11, 2021. UC Berkeley will receive $79,204,086 from HEERF III, with approximately half of the funding planned to support students. Student portion To support our students’ financial well-being during the COVID-19 pandemic, the University of California Berkeley provided emergency financial aid grants to eligible undergraduate and graduate students from the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund. On April 10, 2020, the University of California Berkeley signed and returned to the Department of Education the Certification and Agreement for Higher Education Emergency Relief Funding and intends to use no less than 50 percent of the funds received under § 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act to provide Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students. The following is documented on the the Financial Aid and Scholarships’ COVID-19 Emergency Financial Aid Grants page: total amount of Emergency Financial Aid Grants distributed to students under § 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act, §314(a)(1) of the CRRSAA and § 2003(a)(1) of the ARP; the total number of students who have received an Emergency Financial Aid Grant to Students under § 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act,§314(a)(1) of the CRRSAA and § 2003(a)(1) of the ARP; and the estimated total number of students eligible to receive Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students under § 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act, §314(a)(1) of the CRRSAA and § 2003(a)(1) of the ARP. The Financial Aid and Scholarships Office team collaborated with campus partners, including the Division of Equity and Inclusion, the Graduate Division, student government leaders, and the Student Advocate’s Office, to award and distribute these funds. Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students funded by HEERF I were distributed to students starting in Spring 2020 and through Spring 2021. Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students funded by HEERF II were distributed to students in Spring 2021. The IRS website FAQs provide guidance related to exclusion of these payments as gross income for tax reporting purposes, as they are considered qualified disaster relief payments under section 139 of the Internal Revenue Code. Likewise, expenses paid with this funding cannot be claimed as deductions. More information is available on the Financial Aid and Scholarship Office website. For information on the methods used to determine which students received Emergency Financial Aid Grants and how much they would receive, please reference COVID-19 Service and Support Updates. Institutional portion Review the quarterly reporting forms for more information on the institutional portion of the HEERF funding distribution. UC Berkeley Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Quarterly Reporting - April 10, 2022. This report covers the reporting period ending March 31, 2022. UC Berkeley Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Quarterly Reporting - December 31, 2021. This report covers the reporting period ending December 31, 2021. UC Berkeley Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Quarterly Reporting - October 7, 2021. This report covers the reporting period ending September 30, 2021. UC Berkeley Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Quarterly Reporting - July 10, 2021 and September 2, 2021 (revised). This report covers the reporting period ending June 30, 2021. UC Berkeley Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Quarterly Reporting - July 10, 2021. This report covers the reporting period ending March 31, 2021. UC Berkeley Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Quarterly Reporting - January 8, 2021 and July 10, 2021 (revised). This report covers the reporting period ending December 31, 2020. This is the final quarterly report for this funding. UC Berkeley Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Quarterly Reporting - October 28, 2020. This report covers the reporting period ending September 30, 2020. Resources Financial Aid and Scholarships Office COVID-19 Service and Support Updates UC Berkeley COVID-19 Information and Updates VCF disaster recovery updates Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Medium Visit Jobs News Blog Events Libraries Cal Athletics Equity, Inclusion & Diversity Accreditation Light the Way HEERF Report Nondiscrimination Websites A-Z Directory Map Contact us Privacy Accessibility Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved