Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Listening to Your Anxiety Events Past Event Listening to Your Anxiety Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo March 8, 2022 3:30 PM - 5:00 PM America/New_York International Affairs Building, 420 W. 118 St., New York, NY 10027 1501 Show Map Many of us experience anxiety and don’t know what to do with it. In these dynamic times, given all the changes we’re experiencing, our anxiety may be especially present. What if we saw our anxiety as a teacher, rather than an obstacle? As we experience changes, how can we identify and harness all of our feelings–including anxiety and stress–to stay focused on the big picture, and better connect to what matters most to us? In her keynote talk, “Listening to Your Anxiety," Dr. Anne Marie Albano, Professor of Medical Psychology (in Psychiatry) at Columbia, will focus on helping you build your resiliency, and leave you with actionable tools to transform your anxiety into guidance and meaning. This event is in partnership with The School of International and Public Affairs. Anne Marie Albano is a Professor of Medical Psychology (in Psychiatry) at Columbia University and founder of the Columbia University Clinic for Anxiety and Related Disorders (CUCARD). RSVP is required, please bring your CUID and show your green pass. Free swag will be given on a first-come, first-served basis. If you have questions you can submit them in advance at registration. For a full list of all University Life events, visit universitylife.columbia.edu/events. University Life reserves the right to capture and use images (including video, photo, audio) of student participants at this event in its current or future marketing materials. These materials include but are not limited to: social media, digital and/or print posters, email and web-based materials. By attending and participating in this event, you are consenting to having your image captured for these purposes. If you have concerns about your likeness being used, please reach out to [email protected] and we will accommodate your request. Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event at Columbia University, please contact Disability Services ([email protected] or 212-854-2388) at least 10 days in advance of the event. Requests for CART (Communication Access Realtime Translation) or sign language interpretation require two weeks' notice. Contact Information University Life [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close