Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Career Services Employment Statistics Employment Statistics SMU Dedman School of Law graduates build careers in every sector of the legal profession—private practice, business, the judiciary, government, public service and academia—as well as in non-legal professions where a law degree is substantially valued. The Office of Career Services strives to collect, analyze and report complete and accurate employment and salary information of our graduates. We are proud to present the following employment information for the Classes of 2019, 2018 and 2017 as a testament to our steadfast commitment to not only produce talented young attorneys but also successfully place that talent within the market. The Office of Career Services provides students and recent graduates with one-on-one guidance from counselors and law school staff, whose professional experience ranges from working with prominent international and regional law firms to serving a corporation as general counsel. These dedicated counselors bring numerous law firm, corporate, government and public interest employers to recruit our law students throughout the year, and they facilitate employment in even the most challenging economic times by operating innovative programs such as Test Drive, an incentive hiring program for third-year students and recent graduates. Employment statistics are collected and reported to the American Bar Association following the Employment Protocols issued by the ABA Section of Legal Education and Admission to the Bar. These statistics are based upon Employment Surveys completed by the graduates and verified by Career Services staff. Employment reports for a graduating class are filed with the ABA and NALP each April reflecting employment as of March 15, ten months from graduation. Note that the ABA and NALP use different definitions for various categories, which may account for differences in the reports. Become educated and fully informed about your employment prospects. Please view the more detailed employment statistics: American Bar Association (ABA) ABA Employment Summary for the Class of 2021 (PDF) ABA Employment Summary for the Class of 2020 (PDF)* ABA Employment Summary for the Class of 2019 (PDF) ABA Employment Summary for the Class of 2018 (PDF) ABA Employment Status of Definitions * Information on employment outcomes for the Class of 2020 may not reflect a particular law school's typical results in the area. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, bar admission exams were canceled or delayed in many jurisdictions, thus making it more challenging for graduates to secure employment by the annual Graduate Employment Status Date of March 15. Please reference the 3 years of employment outcome data posted on the ABA Required Disclosures webpage of each ABA-Approved Law School or at www.abarequireddisclosures.org. National Association for Law Placement (NALP) NALP Employment Report and Salary Survey, Class of 2020 NALP Employment Report and Salary Survey, Class of 2019 NALP Employment Report and Salary Survey, Class of 2018 NALP Employment Report and Salary Survey, Class of 2017 A Note about Salary Information Salaries of full-time, long-term positions are reported. The salary information contained in the NALP reports provides the average and median salaries overall, as well as a statistical range. Salaries are further reported by employer sector. While most graduates do report salary information, some graduates choose not to report their salary and some salary information is not independently verifiable. The percentage of graduates who do report salary information varies from year to year. Prospective students, law students and recent graduates, in evaluating salary information, should consider the high and low ranges of reported salaries for each category of employment, in addition to the average and mean reported salaries. Additional, independent research about legal Salaries and Compensation also may be obtained from the NALP website, https://www.nalp.org. – Research & Statistics. SMU Dedman School of Law makes every effort to report accurate and complete employment statistics and salary information. If you have any questions about these reports, please contact the Office of Career Services. Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Hire SMU Law! Post a Job Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram