Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager S4 Michael J. White Director of S4 Robert E. Turner Distinguished Professor of Population Studies Professor of Sociology Michael White is the Robert E. Turner Distinguished Professor of Population Studies at Brown University, where he is also Professor of Sociology and Director (as of 1 July 2016) of the initiative in Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences. Previously at Brown, he served as Chair of the Sociology Department and as director of the Population Studies and Training Center. White is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and Honorary Research Professor in the Faculty of Health Sciences at the University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa. He currently serves on the advisory board of the Asian Demographic Research Institute (Shanghai), and he is an associate editor of Demography. Prior to arriving at Brown in 1989, White taught at Princeton University’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs and was a Senior Research Associate at the Urban Institute in Washington DC. White’s research covers a wide array of topics within the broad area of migration and population distribution: from urban residential segregation, to rural-urban migration in developing societies, to contemporary international migration and immigrant assimilation. White’s publications reflect his combination of sociology, demography, and public policy interests. He is editor of the International Handbook of Population Distribution and Migration (Springer, 2016), a 26 chapter compendium of knowledge on the subject with contributions from leading scholars around the world. Other recent books include Achieving Anew: How New Immigrants Do in American Schools, Jobs, and Neighborhoods (with J Glick; Russell Sage, 2009; Otis Dudley Duncan Prize) and The Dynamics of Migration, Health and Livelihoods (co-edited with M Collinson, K Adazu, and S Findley; Ashgate, 2009). Brown Researcher Page [email protected] Expertise: Residential Segregation, Internal Migration and Immigration, Urbanization and Development Projects South Africa Migration Project South Africa Segregation All Projects Also in S4 Home About People Projects Training Events Resources COVID-19 Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Brown University Box 1836 3rd floor of Maxcy Hall 108 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1064 Fax: 401-863-7497 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat