Maintenance Request and FIXIT - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Housing - SHRL Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Student Housing and Residential Life Home About Meet Our Staff Housing COVID-19 Updates Frequently Asked Questions Assessment & Strategic Planning SHRL Employment Student Employment Staff Employment Recognition SHRLies The SHRL Leadership Recognition Wall Marketing Faculty In Residence Dr. Jerrod Henderson Dr. Kavita Singh Dr. Lyle McKinney Dr. Todd Romero Dr. Melody Li Dr. Scott Gilbertson Housing Alumni and Friends SHRL Alumni and Friends Newsletter Quad Alumni Reunion and Tailgate Current and Returning Residents Cougar Move In Get Involved Residence Halls Association (RHA) The National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH) Greek Life Housing Resource Guide Communications Living Learning Communities Living Learning Communities (LLCs) Theme Communities Maintenance Request and FIXIT Future Residents Residential Community Qualifications Apply for Housing Housing Rate Sheet Get Involved Residence Halls Association (RHA) The National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH) Greek Life Living Learning Communities Living Learning Communities (LLCs) Theme Communities Calendar Conference Housing Services and Amenities Camp Programs for Minors Contact Us Price Guide Directions to Campus Give to SHRL UH Home Housing - SHRL Current and Returning Residents Maintenance Request and FIXIT Maintenance Request and FIXIT All residents play a vital role in maintaining the facilities within Student Housing and Residential Life. Residents can submit online requests 24/7 to get assistance with information technology for residents (computer, wireless, software, email, Philo), residential facility or room support as well as laundry room issues. Note that submission of a work order implies permission for service personnel to enter private spaces. In order for service personnel to resolve a request accurately, it is important to include all five components - name, contact information, building/location room/area, and clear description. Once submitted, a staff member will visit the location. In most cases, requests are addressed and resolved within 2 business days. To ensure that those requests are resolved in this time frame, maintenance staff have permission to enter your space between the hours of 9am-9pm each day. Please note that emergency access is expected 24 hours per day if an issue of life safety or further structural damage may occur. Student Housing and Residential Life requires that all service personnel must adhere to the following customer service standards: wear a university-issued uniform including a UH ID card, knock loudly at least three times, announce their presence before keying-in/entering any private spaces and be able to verify their presence if asked to do so. Once work is completed, service personnel are expected to leave the area clean and place a written leave behind notice in plain sight if the original requestor is not present. In the event that a resident has any concerns with the work that was performed she/he should reach out to their Residence Life Coordinator for assistance. How to request a "Fix It" Work Order Technology Support and Request Help Laundry Support Request University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies