Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Education Academics Forward Arrow Academics Undergraduate Forward Arrow Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Back Arrow Back Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs Forward Arrow Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Back Arrow Back Doctoral Programs Forward Arrow Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Back Arrow Back Programs Forward Arrow Programs Educational Programs Forward Arrow Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Back Arrow Back Labs Forward Arrow Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Back Arrow Back Centers and Institutes Forward Arrow Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Advising Forward Arrow Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Back Arrow Back Field Experience Forward Arrow Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Back Arrow Back Student Opportunities Forward Arrow Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Back Arrow Back Student Resources Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About From the Dean Administration Departments Forward Arrow Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Directory Forward Arrow Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Alumni and Friends Forward Arrow Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Back Arrow Back Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting Forward Arrow Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Back Arrow Back Employee Services Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Education Academics show submenu for Academics Undergraduate show submenu for Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs show submenu for Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Doctoral Programs show submenu for Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Research show submenu for Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Programs show submenu for Programs Educational Programs show submenu for Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Labs show submenu for Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Centers and Institutes show submenu for Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Students show submenu for Students Student Advising show submenu for Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Field Experience show submenu for Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Student Opportunities show submenu for Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Student Resources About show submenu for About From the Dean show submenu for From the Dean Dean's Leadership Institute Administration Departments show submenu for Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Directory show submenu for Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Alumni and Friends show submenu for Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting show submenu for Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Employee Services Clemson Home College of Education Programs Educational Programs Current: Call Me MISTER® Call Me MISTER® The mission of the Call Me MISTER® (acronym for Mentors Instructing Students Toward Effective Role Models) Initiative is to increase the pool of available teachers from a broader more diverse background particularly among the State's lowest performing elementary schools. Student participants are largely selected from among underserved, socio-economically disadvantaged and educationally at-risk communities. The Call Me MISTER® program is contributing to the talent pool of excellent teachers by identifying and supporting students like Mr. Mark Joseph who are literally "touching the future" by teaching children. Mark's teaching degree was made possible through the Call Me MISTER® program. The project provides: Tuition assistance through Loan Forgiveness programs for admitted students pursuing approved programs of study in teacher education at participating colleges. An academic support system to help assure their success. A cohort system for social and cultural support. Assistance with job placement. Call Me MISTER® was developed by some of our State’s visionary educational leaders who sincerely believe we can build a better tomorrow by getting you involved today. Become A MISTER Procedures for admission to the Call Me MISTER® program must be completed in the following order: Apply for and be accepted into one of the participating colleges or universities from which the degree and teaching certificate will be earned. Complete the Call Me MISTER® online referral application. Submit the following items: High School diploma and final transcript or General Education Development (GED) certificate. Two letters of recommendation: One (1) from a teacher, guidance counselor, or principal at the high school form which the diploma is earned. One (1) from a person of the student's choice who can express the student's involvement in the community and/or potential for entering the teaching profession. An essay entitled, "Why I Want to Teach," which will address the student's motivation for entering the teaching profession and the contributions he hopes to make to the profession and to the community as a teacher. An essay entitled "How do you believe the Call Me MISTER® program will benefit you as a student?" A signed statement certifying that student is from an underserved, underprivileged or economically disadvantaged background or area. Following the submission of the items above, an interview will be scheduled with the prospective program participants to ascertain their potential for teaching and their motivations for participation in the program, as well as to provide an opportunity for clarification of any information submitted through the application process. Apply Now Research and Evaluation The Call Me MISTER® program collaborates with the Clemson University Office of Inclusion and Equity's Charles H. Houston Center to pursue its research and evaluation goals. In this regard, the Charles H. Houston Center is responsible for designing and implementing the research and evaluation plan for the Call Me MISTER® program. The purpose of the research and evaluation program is to assess the development and impact of preservice and inservice Call Me MISTER® teachers, as well as study the development and effectiveness of preservice and inservice underrepresented male teachers. Research and Evaluation Objectives Describe the mission, history, learning objectives, and goals of the Call Me MISTER®program Examine the impact of the Call Me MISTER® program on students’ educational outcomes, preservice teacher development, and leadership development in college Investigate teachers’ beliefs, effectiveness, and teaching practices Explore the influences of pre-college characteristics and college experiences on the development and effectiveness of preservice and inservice underrepresented male teachers Call Me MISTER® Resources Staff Dr. Roy Jones is a professor and the executive director for the College of Education's Call Me MISTER® Program at Clemson University. The mission of the Call Me MISTER® (acronym for Mentors Instructing Students Toward Effective Role-models) Initiative is to increase the pool of available teachers from a broader more diverse background particularly among the lowest performing elementary schools. Call Me MISTER® has received accolades from a broad spectrum of national media and high profile celebrities to include, USA Today, Boston Globe, Washington Post, Atlanta Journal, ABC World News, National Public Radio (NPR), Associated Press, Diverse Issues in Education, Blackamerica Web, Oprah Winfrey, and education journals such as Education Week and Instructor magazine. Dr. Jones was named the 2009 recipient of the American Association of Blacks in Higher Education’s Pacesetter Award. Previously, Dr. Jones was associate professor in the Division of Education at Claflin University in Orangeburg, S.C. Dr. Jones served as chair of the Division of Education during the period Claflin received the distinction of becoming the first historically black private institution in the State to receive the National Council for the Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE) accreditation. From 1990 to 1998, Dr. Jones served as Director of Employment for the Charleston County School District and was responsible for the district's teacher and classified recruitment programs. He has successfully implemented and directed numerous programs in higher education throughout his career. He has presented countless workshops, seminars, forums, and panel discussions surrounding racial and cultural issues in education. Dr. Jones received his doctorate from the University of Georgia, master's from Atlanta University and bachelor's from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Student Vision Statement "I am a dedicated Servant Leader who is perpetuating a sorely needed concept - Servant-Leaders as role models in elementary schools. I am devoted to planting seeds of dignity and respect in children and inspiring them to cultivate those seeds producing a crop of unprecedented success. I will teach reading, writing and arithmetic and progress to self-esteem, imagination and determination. Because of my immeasurable promise, not only have I earned your respect, I demand it! A title is only important if ones' character and integrity dictate its use. When you address me, please verbalize my destiny... please do not call me by my first name... call me in reference to my great vision... call me MISTER!" Policies It is the policy of Clemson University that no person shall be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or in any way be subjected to, discrimination in any program or activity of the University. Participation in the Call Me MISTER® Program is open to anybody, regardless of race, ethnicity, or gender, if they are capable of facilitating the achievement of its objectives. Discrimination based on age, color, disability, gender, national origin, race, religion, sexual orientation or veterans status is prohibited. Any person having a question regarding laws and regulations, or who feels discriminated against, is encouraged to contact the Office of Access and Equity, 110 Holtzendorff Hall, Clemson University, phone numbers 864-656-3181 (voice) or 864-656-0899 (TDD). Participating Colleges The Call Me MISTER® program combines the special strengths and resources of Clemson University with the individualized instructional programs offered by several colleges and universities in South Carolina. To provide even greater opportunity and access, students have the option of first attending one of our two-year partner colleges before transferring to one of the four-year institutions to complete their baccalaureate degree. In addition, the project has limited enrollment in the middle school Master of Art in Teaching program. Please click on the participating schools on the menu to learn more about these schools' programs. Participating Colleges Include: Two Year Colleges: Aiken Technical College Greenville Technical College Horry Georgetown Technical College Midlands Technical College Piedmont Technical College Spartanburg Community College Tri-County Technical College Trident Technical College Four Year Colleges and Universities: Anderson University Charleston Southern University Claflin University Clemson University Coastal Carolina University College of Charleston Columbia College Lander University Limestone University Morris College Newberry College South Carolina State University Southern Wesleyan University University of South Carolina Aiken University of South Carolina Beaufort University of South Carolina Upstate Winthrop University National Partner Schools FLORIDA University of South Florida GEORGIA Georgia College & State University Kennesaw State University ILLINOIS Chicago State University The University of Illinois at Chicago KANSAS Kansas State University KENTUCKY Eastern Kentucky University LOUISIANA Grambling State University Northwestern State University NORTH CAROLINA Western Carolina University TENNESSEE University of Tennessee Martin TEXAS University of Houston Downtown University of North Texas-Dallas VIRGINIA Longwood University Corporate Partners 7153 Llc Allstate Foundation Allstate Insurance Agency Inc. Allstate Insurance Company BMW Manufacturing Company, LLC Boeing Company Brown Packing Company, Inc. Cafe Enterprises Inc Carlo White Agency Celanese Acetate Central Carolina Bank & Trust Charles Stewart Mott Foundation Community Foundation of Greater Greenville Credit Adjustment Bureau Inc. DBA Allstate Insurance Agency Duke Energy Foundation E I Dupont De Nemours Gannett Foundation GE Gas Turbines General Electric Company Gerod Allison Agency Inc. Gold Kist Inc. Howle & Howle Foundation, Inc. King Associates Lumina Foundation Ness Motley Loadholt Richards North Enoree Association Brotherhood Oprah's Angel Network Partners a For Healthy Community South Carolina Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators, Association of Students Southtrust Bank Springs Industries Inc. The Self Family Foundation The Sunshine Lady Foundation United Ins. Co. of America We Stand For Kids Wells Fargo Winky Foundation Contact Call Me MISTER® E-mail: MISTER@clemson.edu Phone: Toll-free: 1-800-640-2657 Mail: Call Me MISTER® 202 Holtzendorff Clemson University Clemson, SC 29634 College of Education "Best In Class" Copyright © Clemson University College of Education "Best In Class" | 101 Gantt Circle 864-656-7656 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson