Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Recreational Therapy MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Recreational Therapy MS Apply Request More Info Recreational Therapy MS Accreditation Admissions Clinical Education Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Recreational Therapy The online Master of Science in Recreational Therapy at Temple’s College of Public Health is designed for individuals who want to practice evidence-based recreational therapy within healthcare and human services. The Master of Science in Recreational Therapy will prepare you as a recreational therapist with expertise in assessment of participants’ needs; development, planning and implementation of evidence-based interventions; documentation of participants’ progress; and evaluation of evidence-based treatment outcomes. Students in the Recreational Therapy MS will have the opportunity to determine and develop an area of specialization (including physical rehabilitation, behavioral/mental health, pediatrics, geriatrics and at-risk youth) with guidance from a faculty member. Graduates of the program will also acquire the administrative and managerial skills necessary for career advancement. Recreational therapy is a profession within the field of healthcare that utilizes structured, evidence-based recreation and leisure activities to improve the lives of people with disabilities or health-related limitations. Students who do not have an academic background in recreational therapy may use the program to meet eligibility requirements for the national credentialing examination for recreational therapists. Learn more about the profession of recreational therapy. Graduates find practice-based clinical or management roles as professional recreational therapists in a wide range of settings, including rehabilitation facilities, hospitals, community settings providing specialized services to individuals with disabilities, nursing homes, and assisted living facilities. What sets apart our MS in Recreational Therapy? A renowned program available nationally and internationally: Our recreational therapy program has a top-tier reputation and is one of the oldest in the country. We welcome students from different countries, as well as from across the United States. A dynamic online environment: The program welcomes students from across the country as well as internationally. Students capitalize on the program’s cutting-edge online learning technologies to hone the skills they need for today’s healthcare and human services settings. A diverse student body: Recreational Therapy students come from a wide range of academic and employment backgrounds, including communications, psychology, nursing and special education. This enriches the quality of classroom discussions as well as the hands-on, practice-oriented portions of the curriculum. Online Program Format This 36-credit program is offered entirely online with a combination of synchronous components (web conference-based, live class discussions; chat rooms and video meetings) and asynchronous components (discussion boards and other assignments that students complete on their own time). It can be completed full time in two years (including summers) or part time. While this master’s program does not require prerequisite courses to qualify for admission, students may be required to take additional courses necessary for national certification. These courses are listed in the coursework section as leveling courses. See a full list of program courses. As an exit requirement, all Recreational Therapy MS students must successfully complete an evidence-based recreation therapy project. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. Master’s students can seek program support from the program coordinator. Gena Vargas Graduate Program Coordinator Email: gena.vargas@temple.edu Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this online Master of Science program offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Online tuition: $1,000 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-RLTH-MS Additional Program Information Available online. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Recreational Therapy MS Accreditation Admissions Clinical Education Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info