Skip to main content Faculty Directory Giving Industry Partners Programs & Departments About Us Home Admissions▼ Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Spotlights Students▼ Undergraduate Students Graduate Students M.Eng. Students Research & Faculty▼ Faculty Centers and Facilities Strategic Areas of Research Undergraduate Research Diversity▼ DPE Programs & Events Current Students Prospective Students & Outreach Career Development Partnerships About DPE Alumni▼ Alumni Spotlights Bill Nye Solar Noon Clock Alumni Events Contact AAD Cornell Engineering Store Distinguished Alumni Award Enterprise Engineering Colloquium Students Support Volunteer Open the search panel Menu Search Close Admissions Why Cornell Engineering? "Scientists study the world as it is; engineers create the world that never has been."—Theodore von Karman Cornell engineers challenge the status quo and do great things. Steeped in an environment of questioning, and with a focus on innovation, Cornell Engineering pursues excellence in all areas. Its faculty, students, and alumni design, build, and test products, improve the world of medicine, inform and shape our laws, create and drive businesses, become research luminaries, and overcome real and perceived barriers to achieve scientific breakthroughs that advance the quality of life on our planet. We invite you to learn more about Cornell Engineering and its programs. What type of applicant are you? Undergraduate Admissions Our undergraduate program will challenge you to transcend traditional boundaries between disciplines while giving you a world-class education in a collaborative, rigorously academic environment. Explore Subtopics Admitted Students Waitlisted Applicants Who We Are: The Importance of Diversity Considering Cornell Engineering Student Experience First-Year Applicants International Applicants Transfer Applicants Financial Aid First-Generation College Students American Indian and Indigenous at Cornell Engineering Cornell Lingo 101 Contact Engineering Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Cornell Engineering's unique graduate field system ensures a collaborative, interdisciplinary approach to your master of engineering degree, master of science degree, or doctorate. Explore Subtopics Admissions for M.S. Students Admissions for Ph.D. Students Admissions for M.Eng. Students Contact Engineering Graduate Admissions Project Teams Explore Subtopics Active Project Teams Join a Project Team Form a Project Team Project Team Videos Project Team Facilities Project Team Guidelines Project Teams Staff Entrepreneurial Options for Undergrad Students Explore Subtopics Cornell Center for Technology Licensing Entrepreneurship Courses Entrepreneurship Faculty Entrepreneurship Minor Innovation Competition eHub Information eLab Information Kessler Fellows Program Programs & Departments Explore Subtopics Applied and Engineering Physics Biological and Environmental Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Computer Science Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering Management Information Science Material Science and Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Meinig School of Biomedical Engineering Operations Research and Information Engineering Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Smith School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Systems Engineering Engineering Entrepreneurs-in-Residence About the Career Center Explore Subtopics Meet Our Career Peer Advisors Meet Our Staff Engineering Leadership Programs Explore Subtopics WE LEAD Coaching for Engineering Students Engineering Leadership Certificate Program Engineering Leadership Classes Leadership Fundamentals Badge Tech+Teams Contact Engineering Leadership Programs Alumni Spotlight Meet Our Team Did you know? The first implantable cardiac pacemaker was developed in 1960 by Wilson Greatbatch, (Electrical Engineering, B.S., 1950). This invention was named by the National Society of Professional Engineers as one of the 10 greatest engineering contributions to society. The FP-54 Pliotron electrometer was created by Lloyd P. Smith during his doctorate studies at Cornell in the late 1920s. This device was capable of amplifying direct currents as small as 10(-17) amps. Smith would later become the first director of Cornell’s Department of Engineering Physics. CDMA (Code Division and Multiple Access) technology for cell phones was developed in 1989 by alum Irwin Jacobs , co-founder and former chairman of Qualcomm. This innovation greatly increased the number of calls cell phone towers could handle simultaneously and became the world’s fastest-growing and most advanced voice and data wireless communications technology. Charles Frederick Hartt, Cornell’s first professor of geology, in the 1870s led two geological surveys of Brazil with Cornell geology students and faculty. He brought back geological and paleontological samples for the University’s burgeoning collections and botanical specimens for Wiegand Herbarium. 1972 – Jack Muckstadt (still active as a Cornell faculty member) develops the mathematical basis for determining the number and allocation of spare parts needed to repair aircraft having multiple indentured level subsystems (e.g., engines and avionics systems). This multi-echelon mathematical approach is used by all military services in the US and by militaries in many other countries. It has been used to manage and procure well over $100B of parts in the US since 1973. Contact Us About Us News Events Spotlights Staff Directory Intranet Reserve Duffield Hall Main Address: Carpenter Hall 313 Campus Rd. Ithaca, New York 14853 Web Accessibility Assistance Connect with us Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved.