Visit - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Visit Visit VISIT IN-PERSON We are excited to welcome you to the University of Houston—in person—to see for yourself what life is like on campus! Select these sessions to receive admissions information and explore UH in person, whether you’re a prospective freshman or prospective transfer student. All sessions include a 90-minute walking tour showcasing campus hotspots and the academic colleges specific to your interest. For In-person Tours after May 6, 2022: Register here > On-campus Masks encouraged Limited capacity Group In-Person Tours Our UH Student Ambassadors are eager to welcome you to the University of Houston—in person—to see for yourself what life is like on campus! Our in-person group tours are approximately 90-minutes. To register, use the button below to select the date and time that works best with your group's schedule. At this time, we are only able to provide group tours to groups of students 9th - 12th grade and prospective transfer students. We are able to provide in-person tours to groups of up to 60 people, including chaperones. If your group does not meet these criteria, we recommend registering for a virtual group visit below! For Group In-person Tours after May 6, 2022: Register here > Virtual Tours & Information Sessions The easiest way to envision yourself on campus is to join us for a live virtual session! Join us for a virtual tour or information session to get insider information about what it’s actually like to be a student at UH – all from the convenience of your phone, tablet, or computer! Options for virtual sessions include: Campus Tours Residence Hall Tours Prospective Freshman Information Sessions Prospective Transfer Information Sessions For Virtual Tours after May 6, 2022: Register here > Group Virtual Tours Group virtual visits are just as interactive as on campus visit experiences and can be customized to your group! Typically, group virtual visits last one hour and include the following activities led by UH Student Ambassadors: 20-minute admissions presentation that includes a brief overview of the university, academic opportunities, campus life, and the admissions process 20-minute virtual guided student life tour covering campus hot spots, including a sneak peek into Cougar Village II, our most popular freshman residence hall 10-minute question and answer session For Group Virtual Tours after May 6, 2022: Register here > Self-Guided Campus Tours Explore all the hot spots across 600 acres of the University of Houston’s campus though our self-paced, virtual visits. Want to explore campus on your own? Check out our self-guided tour map! See all self-guided tour options On The Day of Your Tour Check out these directions to campus, or type "University of Houston Welcome Center" (4400 University Dr, Houston, TX 77204) into your preferred navigation app. You are required to park in the Welcome Center garage on the third or fourth level. Please note: hourly parking rates apply. On the day of your scheduled campus tour, please check in at the front desk of the Welcome Center no more than 10 minutes prior to your visit time. You will receive a text message 10 minutes before your tour with a check-in code. Be prepared for the weather: Bring plenty of water and comfortable clothes for an outdoor tour. We'll also continue our tours rain or shine, so if it's raining, bring an umbrella! Have a question? Reach out to vco@central.uh.edu for assistance. ACCESSIBILITY FOR VIRTUAL VISITS AND SELF-GUIDED TOURS The University of Houston is committed to providing an accessible and inclusive environment – including online. Our virtual visits and self-guided tours are designed to enable students with disabilities to participate. To request special accommodations, please include specific needs in the comment section when filling out your registration form, e-mail us at vc@uh.edu. Students with limited access to technology or the internet can request a personal phone call from a student ambassador to get more insight into the UH experience. Meet the Staff Twitter Instagram Spotify Our Ambassadors are ready to tell you how the University of Houston changed their lives and how it can change yours, too! Get to know our UH ambassadors University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies