Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Menu Toggle Search Cyclones Forever Cyclone Support Sexual Assault Contact Us Main navigation Home About Mission & Priorities Meet the VP Senior Leaders Organization Chart Reporting Units Campus Life Central Office Dean of Students Office Student Health and Wellness Directory Impact Assessment By The Numbers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Outside the Classroom Reports Students Career Competencies Co-Curricular Learning Domains Scholarships Student Organization Funding Staff Resources Assessment Awards CARE Recognition Committees Communications Events Calendar Division Meetings Policies Professional Development Community Resources Group Counseling /Workshops Group counseling is a free and confidential service open to all students enrolled at ISU. Group is a therapy format that approaches issues of personal growth through the use of interpersonal interaction. Group interactions provide an opportunity to build relationships and receive interpersonal feedback about how we experience one another. Learn More Thielen Student Health Center Full service health clinic available to students. Thielen offers a variety of services, including preventative services like annual physical exams, vaccinations, and more. Learn More Personal Safety At Iowa State University, we strive to create a place where all community members feel safe. While we cannot eliminate all safety concerns on campus, taking responsibility for your personal safety is a good first step. Learn More Office of Equal Opportunity Provides resources for individuals who have experienced discrimination or harassment based on identity and protected class, and for those who have experienced power-based interpersonal violence. The Office provides individuals a safe environment for consultation and advice prior to choosing any particular next steps in their situation. Interactions with The Office of Equal Opportunity are low-risk and private. Learn More The Center for LGBTQIA+ Student Success The Center for LGBTQIA+ Student Success develops academic and personal success, community, and leadership for lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, queer, intersex, asexual, and allied students. Learn More Sloss Center for Women and Gender Equity The Sloss Center is committed to promoting gender equity and social justice. Staff advocate for individuals and groups; provides support and referrals; and offers programs and resources to advance for gender equity. Learn More Multicultural Student Affairs Supports and empowers Iowa State University's students who self-identify as African American, Asian American, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, Latinx, Native American/Alaskan Native and/or Multiracial, and advocates for their holistic development across the University. Learn More Veterans Center Committed to helping Veteran and military-affiliated students succeed academically, while also providing opportunities for students to engage with our community in meaningful ways Learn More International Students and Scholars Office Provides immigration services, personal support, and cross cultural experience to international students and scholars. Learn More Food Pantry/Hunger Resources Access to free food and other support for students experiencing hunger Learn More Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Office of the Senior Vice President and Provost Division of Operations and Finance Office of the President Contact 515 Morrill Road 2350 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011 Monday- Friday, 8 a.m.- 5 p.m. studentaffairs@iastate.edu 515-294-4420 phone Give Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...