Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Academic Advising Academic Advising Home Change of Major Transfer Students Study Abroad FAQ Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Academic Advising Academic Advising Home Change of Major Transfer Students Study Abroad FAQ Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Students Academic Advising Current: Transfer Students Transfer Students Communication To apply to the Communication program, students will use the general application for transfer admission through the Office of Admissions website. Students can apply in both the fall and spring semesters. Admission into the Communication program is competitive in both semesters, with a maximum of 10 being accepted in the fall and 5 in the spring. Applicants are encouraged to have a GPA of 3.0 or higher when they apply. Students should also be working on their general education requirements and any other coursework mapped out in the curriculum found in the Undergraduate Catalog. These are general guidelines and are not a guarantee of acceptance to Communication due to the competitiveness of the program. Note that meeting with an academic advisor or touring the Department of Communication in no way influences the admission decision. Transfer credits will be evaluated through the transfer admission process; however, you can utilize Clemson’s Transfer Credit Equivalency Lookup for courses that have been pre-approved. COMM 2010 (Introduction to Communication Studies) is not a course that is accepted as transfer credit from another institution. If a course or institution you are looking for does not appear on the list, it means that no one has transferred that course or from that institution before. In this case, the course will be evaluated by Transfer Admissions upon the student’s acceptance to Clemson. Academic advisors are not able to evaluate transfer credits. For all questions regarding the application process and admissions, please speak directly to Transfer Admissions at 864-656-2287. Admission to the program does not guarantee graduation in four semesters; however, summer courses are available both online and in person to help speed up the graduation process. Nursing To apply to the School of Nursing, use the application for transfer admission through Clemson University. We do not have a separate application process for admission to the clinical semester. Students can transfer into the School of Nursing fall semesters only. Students seeking transfer admission to the School of Nursing must apply by December 1 for the following fall admission. Although applications for transfer are accepted beyond this date, the School of Nursing is a competitive and limited admission program with only 10 students. Transfer students who apply after December 1 are not given full consideration for admission. Priority for admission is given to students with a 3.0 GPA or better, the majority of the first two years of the nursing curriculum completed elsewhere by the time of enrollment at Clemson, and A and B grades in the math and science courses in the first two years. While these are general guidelines, admission is often more competitive due to the small number of students admitted. Note that touring the School of Nursing in no way influences the admission decision. Transfer credits will be formally evaluated through the transfer admissions application process. You can reference pre-approved transfer credits through Clemson’s Transfer Credit Equivalency Lookup. If you cannot find your institution or a specific course on the site, it simply means that no one has tried to transfer that specific course or from that institution before. Any courses not on the list will be evaluated by Transfer Admissions, not by an academic advisor. Once a student is accepted (typically mid-spring semester), a formal evaluation of coursework and standing in the nursing curriculum will be generated by a School of Nursing advisor and shared with the accepted student. For all questions regarding the application process and admissions, please speak directly to Transfer Admissions at 864-656-2287. Our nursing programs are very rigorous and transfer students will spend an extra semester finishing the degree due to the clinical space limitations and entry. There is no way to “speed up” and graduate on time. For all nursing programs, the last four semesters must be taken as listed in the major curriculum plan. Many general education courses are very specific, and course substitutions often are allowed due to the specific educational needs of students in the clinical semesters. In addition, the School of Nursing offers very limited summer course options, which can make it difficult to shorten your plan. In addition, you can find the current degree requirements in the Undergraduate Catalog. You can also access the curriculum worksheet for transfers, curriculum guide and information regarding a prospective student tour. For questions related to curriculum plans and academic requirements, please contact a School of Nursing advisor. Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management A degree in Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management offers the following concentration areas: Community Recreation, Sport and Camp Management Park and Conservation Management Professional Golf Management Recreational Therapy Travel and Tourism To apply, use the application for transfer admission through Clemson University. We do not have a separate application process. Transfer credits will be formally evaluated through the transfer admissions application process. You can reference pre-approved transfer credits through Clemson’s Transfer Credit Equivalency Lookup. If you cannot find your institution or a specific course on the site, it simply means that no one has tried to transfer that specific course or from that institution before. Any courses not on the list will be evaluated by Transfer Admissions, not by an academic advisor. For all questions regarding the application process and admissions, please speak directly to Transfer Admissions at 864-656-2287. In addition, you can find the current degree requirements in the Undergraduate Catalog. For questions related to curriculum plans and academic requirements, please contact the Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management advisor. Political Science Transferring into Political Science is non-competitive. The Department of Political Science offers a multitude of courses in American politics, comparative politics, international relations, political theory, public administration and public policy. Students are provided the options of earning either a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) or a Bachelor in Science (B.S.) degree, with both requiring a modern language. The B.S. requires students to choose a concentration area from one of the following areas below: American Politics Global Politics Political Economy Public Administration Public Policy To apply, use the application for transfer admissions through Clemson University. Transfer credits are formally evaluated through the transfer admissions application process. Pre-approved transfer credits are located at the Clemson’s Transfer Credit Equivalency Lookup. If your institution or course is not listed, it means there has not been a formal evaluation of the institution or course. Once admitted, you will be able to formally request a credit evaluation through your academic advisor. For all questions regarding the application process and admissions, please speak directly to Transfer Admissions at 864-656-2287. In addition, you can find the current degree requirements in the Undergraduate Catalog. For questions related to curriculum plan and academic requirements, please contact the advisor listed here. Psychology Click here for information. Public Health Sciences Transfer admission into the Department of Public Health Sciences at Clemson is competitive. Students are encouraged to apply early to the Office of Admissions. The application to Clemson University is also the application for a space in the health science program. There is not a separate application to gain admission to health science. Applicants should list health science (with concentration area) as their first choice major on the application. Applicants are encouraged to have a 3.0 GPA or higher to be considered. Additionally, completing general education courses such as English, science and math is encouraged. Meeting the minimum GPA requirements does not guarantee admission. Admission is very competitive and health science accepts up to 10 transfer students each year. Additionally, applicants can only apply to start in the fall semester. Academic credits will be formally evaluated through the transfer admission application process. Potential applicants should reference the Transfer Credit Equivalency List (TCEL) to see how credit may transfer in and then cross reference that to the health science curriculum which can be found online at clemson.edu/degrees/health-science. For all questions regarding the application process, admissions and specific requirements for admission to this program, please speak directly to Transfer Admissions at 864-656-2287. Sociology, Anthropology and Criminal Justice To apply, use the application for transfer admission through Clemson University. We do not have a separate application process. Transfer credits will be formally evaluated through the transfer admissions application process. You can reference pre-approved transfer credits through Clemson’s Transfer Credit Equivalency Lookup. If you cannot find your institution or a specific course on the site, it simply means that no one has tried to transfer that specific course or from that institution before. Any courses not on the list will be evaluated by Transfer Admissions, not by an academic advisor. For all questions regarding the application process and admissions, please speak directly to Transfer Admissions at 864-656-2287. In addition, you can find the current degree requirements in the Undergraduate Catalog. For questions related to curriculum plans and academic requirements, please contact the Sociology, Anthropology and Crimninal Justice advisor. College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Copyright © Clemson University College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences | 116 Edwards Hall 864-656-7640 | Email Us | Academic Questions intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson