Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Curricular Resource Center Departmental Undergraduate Groups (DUGs) Curricular Resource Center Departmental Undergraduate Groups (DUGs) Thank you for your interest in the DUGs Program! What is a DUG? A Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) is a group of concentrators that plans events and activities intended to build a sense of community within the concentration. A DUG needs at least one student leader working with a faculty member (DUG sponsor) and the academic department's manager/coordinator. DUGs help students make and strengthen connections with other concentrators, professors, and concentrator alumni, provide a means for first-year and sophomore students to explore the concentration, and enable concentrators to explore potential co-curricular and career-related opportunities related to their field of study. DUGs help students make and strengthen connections with other concentrators, professors, and concentrator alums; provide a means for first- and second-year students to explore the concentrations; and enable concentrators to explore high-impact learning opportunities as juniors/seniors, and career pathways related to their field(s) of study. Visit the DUG FAQ for answers common questions. Here is the DUG Leader Asynchronous Training for 2021-22. To update the DUG leaders listed on the CRC site and in Focal Point, please fill out this form. DUG Leaders, Concentation advisors & Directors of Undergraduate Studies: We encourage you to join the DUG Google Classroom for a comprehensive look at the DUG program! What do DUGS do? DUGs organize events ranging from study breaks for concentrators, meals or teas with faculty members, field trips to relevant sites (such as museums or documentary screenings), panels with guest speakers, workshops with alumni, capstone/thesis celebrations, movie nights, and more! Some ideas for in-person or virtual events or community-building activities include: meet-and-greets with faculty; guided tours of department-affliated spaces (e.g., libraries or museums) or research labs; career event with alums; an event for pre-concentrators; raffle prizes such as journals or books by faculty in the concentration. For help with event planning, visit the SAO Event Planning Guide, the Virtual Events Planning Guide from University Events and Conference Services, or email the DUG Co-Coordinators at [email protected] Additionally, most concentrations expect that a member of the DUG will be at their table for the Concentration Fair for sophomores. How do I get involved with a DUG? Please contact the DUG leaders of the group you are interested in. If your concentration does not have a DUG and you are interested in starting one, please contact your Director of Undergraduate Studies and [email protected] DUG Program Overall Learning Goals: Facilitate building relationships among prospective concentrators, current concentrators, and faculty within a concentration. Provide meaningful academic and personal experiences through diverse and innovative student-centered programming. Home Independent Concentrations Independent Studies Leavetaking Departmental Undergraduate Groups (DUGs) DUG Leaders Funding Concentration Declaration Day Matched Advising Program for Sophomores (MAPS) Fellowship, Internship, and Research Experiences (FIRe) Theories in Action Symposium (TiA) Contact Print this Page Share this Page Curricular Resource Center Brown University Box 1825 167 Angell Street Ground Level Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3013 Fax n/a [email protected] There are no events available. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory