Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Expresso Yourself: Navigating Intimate Relationships During a Pandemic Events Past Event Expresso Yourself: Navigating Intimate Relationships During a Pandemic Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 16, 2020 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM America/New_York Online Event Join SVR and Being Barnard on Thursday, April 16th, from 3-4:30 pm (ET) for Expresso Yourself: Navigating Intimacy and Relationships During a Pandemic. Participate in an exploratory conversation with sex educators, Bianca Laureano and Francisco Ramirez around navigating intimacy and relationships of all kinds under the current climate. Here we will also consider the opportunity and possibilities to re-imagine how the nature of intimacy and relationships could shift when a new life resumes for us all. Topics include: 1) What does it mean to build “healthy” relationships with self and others under the current circumstances? 2) Is this an opportunity for increased connectivity and the cultivation of interdependent systems? 3) How do we talk about boundaries considering the climate and what could this mean when it comes to physical expressions of affection and comfort or pleasure? Register at: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_C0GK1LS6SC2B3SZgwhxdLw Speakers: Francisco Ramirez, MPH (@FranciscoNYC) talks about sex, all the time. He is an award-winning sexuality educator, tech founder, and college speaker. He holds a Master of Public Health and has worked at the UN since 2005, talking about sex everywhere from Afghanistan to Uganda. Ramirez is a host on MTV and NPR, and recently released OkaySo, a smartphone app connecting young people to sexperts. Most recently, he co-starred in “Sex Probz” on The Cut, and served as Vice President at Planned Parenthood. For the past 10 years, he has put out two chairs and a sign that reads “Free Sex Advice” in New York City parks and subways. Bianca Laureano, MA, CSE, CSES is an award-winning educator, curriculum writer, and sexologist. She is a founding member of the Women of Color Sexual Health Network (WOCSHN) and her most recent project is ANTE UP! a virtual freedom school offering professional development and certification. She has written several curricula focusing on communities of color and wrote the sexual and reproductive justice discussion guide for the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene published in 2018. She is an AASECT certified sexuality educator and supervisor. Please follow SVR on Facebook and feel free to share widely within the Columbia community. Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend and event at Columbia University, please contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 Register at: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_C0GK1LS6SC2B3SZgwhxdLw Contact Information Columbia Health Sexual Violence Response 212-854-HELP (4357) [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close