Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Computer Engineering (BSCpE) – Comprehensive Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Electrical & Computer Engr In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHS 1440 or CHM 2045C. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements Students in the Computer Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Computer Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Computer Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Computer Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Aeronautical Engineering Professor Ceramic Engineering Professor Chemical Engineering Professor Civil Engineering Professor Computer Hardware Designer Computer Hardware Developer Computer Hardware Engineer Electrical Engineering Director Electrical Engineering Professor Electronics Engineering Professor Engineering Design Manager Engineering Manager Global Engineering Manager Industrial Engineering Professor Manufacturing Engineering Professor Marine Engineering Professor Mechanical Engineering Director Mechanical Engineering Professor Petroleum Engineering Professor Process Engineering Manager Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Bachelors Computer Engineering (BSCpE) - Comprehensive Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHS 1440 or CHM 2045C. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements Students in the Computer Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Computer Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Computer Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Computer Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 2 Total Credits Complete all of the following Departments Programs Policies Academic Resources Administrative Officers and Staff University Faculty and Administration Emeriti Honorary Degrees Awarded Academic Calendar Building Abbreviations Glossary Addenda Print this page Back College of Engineering and Computer Science Programs>Computer Engineering, Comprehensive Track (B.S.Cp.E.) Computer Engineering, Comprehensive Track (B.S.Cp.E.) College College of Engineering and Computer Science Department Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Program Type Major Program Description College of Engineering & Computer Science Electrical & Computer Engineering Department Harris Corporation Engineering Center (HEC), 346 407-823-3327 [email protected] Undergraduate Program Coordinator of EE and CpE: Dr. Reza Abdolvand [email protected] Academic Advisor: Charlese Hilton-Brown [email protected] Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHS 1440 or CHM 2045C. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements Students in the Computer Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Computer Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Computer Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Computer Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. Program Details General Education Program (GEP) (38 Credit Hours) The UCF General Education Program (GEP) is described in this catalog. Engineering students should closely study the requirements of the UCF GEP and the allowable substitutions detailed in paragraphs A through E below to minimize excess hours. Students transferring to UCF from within the Florida College System or State University System should complete the GEP and the Common Program Prerequisites before transferring. Communication Foundations (9 Credit Hours) ENC 1101 - Composition I Credit Hours: 3 (Required) ENC 1102 - Composition II Credit Hours: 3 (Required) Select One: (3 Credit Hours) SPC 1603C - Fundamentals of Technical Presentations Credit Hours: 3 (Suggested) SPC 1608 - Fundamentals of Oral Communication Credit Hours: 3 (Suggested) Cultural and Historical Foundations (9 Credit Hours) Select two courses from Historical Foundations Credit Hours: 6 Select one class from Cultural Foundations Credit Hours: 3 Mathematical Foundations (7 Credit Hours) MAC 2311C - Calculus with Analytic Geometry I Credit Hours: 4 (Required) STA 3032 - Probability and Statistics for Engineers Credit Hours: 3 (Required) Social Foundations (6 Credit Hours) Select One: (3 Credit Hours) ECO 2013 - Principles of Macroeconomics Credit Hours: 3 (Preferred) ECO 2023 - Principles of Microeconomics Credit Hours: 3 (Preferred) Select one class from Social Foundations Credit Hours: 3 Science Foundations (7 Credit Hours) PHY 2048C - General Physics Using Calculus I Credit Hours: 4 (Required) Select one course from Science Foundations Credit Hours: 3 Common Program Prerequisites (CPP) (19 Credit Hours) These courses are specifically required for all engineering students of the Florida State University System. CPP courses are also available at other Florida post-secondary schools and may be transferred directly to UCF programs. To enroll in CpE major courses, a 2.0 (C or better) in each course is required. See “Common Prerequisites” in the Transfer and Transitions Services section for more information. MAC 2311C - Calculus with Analytic Geometry I Credit Hours: 4 (GEP) MAC 2312 - Calculus with Analytic Geometry II Credit Hours: 4 MAC 2313 - Calculus with Analytic Geometry III Credit Hours: 4 MAP 2302 - Ordinary Differential Equations I Credit Hours: 3 PHY 2048C - General Physics Using Calculus I Credit Hours: 4 (GEP) PHY 2049C - General Physics Using Calculus II Credit Hours: 4 Select One: (4 Credit Hours) 1 Preferred CHS 1440 - Principles of Chemistry Credit Hours: 4 1 CHM 2045C - Chemistry Fundamentals I Credit Hours: 4 Core Requirements: Basic Level (2 Credit Hours) The College of Engineering & Computer Science requires all engineering students to achieve a minimum 2.25 GPA in completing these courses, together with the courses required for the major in section 4 below, technical elective courses listed in section 5 below and with the senior design courses listed in section 6 below. Independent study courses generally do not satisfy major requirements. Complete the following: EGS1006C - Introduction to the Engineering Profession (1) EGN1007C - Engineering Concepts and Methods (1) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 48 Total Credits No Rules Engineering Core 0 Total Credits STA 3032 - Probability and Statistics for Engineers Credit Hours: 3 (GEP) Courses Required for the Major 48 Total Credits Complete the following: EGN3420 - Engineering Analysis (3) COT3100C - Introduction to Discrete Structures (3) COP3502C - Computer Science I (3) COP3503C - Computer Science II (3) COP3330 - Object Oriented Programming (3) COP4331C - Processes for Object-Oriented Software Development (3) EEL3926L - Junior Design (1) EEL3004C - Linear Circuits I (3) EEL3123C - Linear Circuits II (3) EEE3307C - Electronics I (4) EEE3342C - Digital Systems (3) EEL3801C - Computer Organization (4) EEL4742C - Embedded Systems (3) EEL4768 - Computer Architecture (3) EEL4781 - Computer Communication Networks (3) COP4600 - Operating Systems (3) Restricted Electives 15 Total Credits Technical electives are available in the BSCpE program to address specific student interests in a variety of technical areas such as Software Engineering. Students should consult with their academic advisor for the identification of courses that are approved technical electives and the terms when specific courses of this type are to be offered. Technical Electives 15 Total Credits Earn at least 15 credits from the following types of courses: Technical elective courses are to be selected by the student from department approved courses. Capstone Requirements 6 Total Credits Complete the following: EEL4914 - Senior Design I (3) EEL4915L - Senior Design II (3) Grand Total Credits: 71 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida