COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert COVID-19 Testing and Vaccinations Current WSU students, faculty and staff can now walk in for a free COVID-19 test at Student Health Services. For registration and eligibility for testing visit our COVID-19 Testing page. For registration, eligibility and locations for vaccines visit our COVID-19 Vaccinations page. Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Section Menu Student Health Services Home After Hour Care / Medical Emergencies About Us COVID-19 Testing COVID-19 Vaccinations Events Forms Health Insurance Medications Meningitis Office Hours Policies Services Travel and Health Advisories Tuberculosis Uploading Health Documents Vaccination Information Vaccination Videos Wellness Resources Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Wichita State University administration and Student Health Services continue to closely monitor the evolving COVID-19 (also known as coronavirus disease 2019) outbreak. The health and safety of our students, faculty and staff is our highest priority. Student Health Services (SHS) is in regular communication with the Sedgwick County Health Department (SCHD) and the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE). Per the CDC, this is an emerging, evolving situation. Please check links provided to receive updated information as it becomes available. What are the symptoms and complications that COVID-19 can cause? Fever or chills Cough Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing Fatigue Muscle or body aches Headache New loss of taste or smell Sore throat Congestion or runny nose Nausea or vomiting Diarrhea CDC Symptom Self Checker What to do If you have concerns about potential exposure and feel you are experiencing symptoms: Call ahead before seeking medical care. For WSU students, Student Health Services; (316) 978-4792; is open 8-5 Monday through Friday. Please call for an appointment. For Staff, Faculty and Community members please contact your local medical provider. To report a positive COVID-19 test result, required quarantine/isolation, or to express general COVID-19 concerns or ask questions, go to https://www.wichita.edu/reportit How can I help protect myself? Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands. Avoid close contact with people who are sick and put distance between yourself and others. Stay home when you are sick. Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash. Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces. Follow CDC’s recommendations for using a facemask. What if I recently traveled internationally or in the US? View the KDHE travel list What if I recently traveled to an area experiencing a COVID-19 outbreak and feel sick? If you recently traveled to an area experiencing a COVID-19 outbreak and feel sick with fever, cough, or difficulty breathing, within 14 days after you left the area, you should: Seek medical care right away. Call ahead before you go to Student Health Services (316-978-4792), doctor’s office or emergency rooms, and tell them about your recent travel and your symptoms. Avoid contact with others. Not travel while sick. Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing. Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds to avoid spreading the virus to others. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available. SHS has COVID-19 testing available. What is the source of COVID-19? A novel coronavirus is a new coronavirus that has not been previously identified. The virus causing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), is not the same as the coronaviruses that commonly circulate among humans and cause mild illness, like the common cold. How does the virus spread? The new coronavirus seems to be spreading from person-to-person. Between people who are in close contact with one another (within about 6 feet). Through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes. These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs. Where can I find information on how I can protect myself? The Kansas Department of Health and Environment has mask guidance. Can coronavirus affect my pet? For any information regarding pets and COVID-19, please read the CDC's FAQ about animals. For a more extensive list of FAQs, visit the CDC's FAQ website. Information on our Pandemic Influenza Plan. Vaccination Links WSU Vaccinations Update Vaccinefinder.com WSU COVID-19 Resources COVID-19 WSU News Human Resources COVID Training Videos COVID-19 Voluntary Testing Program COVID-19 Resources Off campus COVID testing sites Local list of COVID testing sites. Quarantine/Isolation Guidance Documents detailing how to quarantine/isolate appropriately Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) The best source for up-to-date information about COVID-19. CDC COVID-19 Website CDC Vaccines and Immunizations Glossary How to Protect Yourself and Others International Travel Health Notices What to do if you are sick Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) COVID-19 Website gogettested.com Sedgwick County Health Department (SCHD) SCHD COVID-19 Website SCHD COVID-19 call center 316-660-1022 Questions and After Hour Care student.health@wichita.edu SCHD COVID call center 316-660-1022 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©