Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Affordable For All Overview Undergraduate Applicants Current Undergraduates Funding & Support for Graduate Students Overview We are committed to making a Princeton education affordable to all. Our financial aid program for undergraduates is recognized as one of the most generous in the country. We provide financial aid in the form of grants that do not need to be repaid. This means undergraduates can graduate from Princeton debt free. Graduate students also benefit from generous support while studying at Princeton. Princeton guarantees funding for its regularly enrolled, degree-seeking Ph.D. candidates for all years of regular program enrollment, contingent upon satisfactory academic performance. Undergraduate Applicants Our financial aid program is designed to encourage all qualified students — regardless of financial circumstances — to consider applying for admission to Princeton. Our generous financial aid has ensured the continued and growing enrollment of a diverse group of undergraduates from low and middle-income backgrounds. Grants, Not Loans Financial aid covered 100 percent of tuition, room and board for students in the most recent freshman class whose families earned up to $65,000. This aid was provided in the form of grants, which do not have to be repaid. Princeton was the first university in the country to eliminate loans from its financial aid package. Zero Debt Our generous aid program enabled 82 percent of recent seniors to graduate debt free. For comparison, about 70 percent of college seniors in the United States graduated with debt in 2014. Meeting Your Needs Financial aid is awarded solely based on a student's need. Each student's aid award is determined individually based on family resources. For the most recent freshman class, 100 percent of families with incomes up to $180,000 qualified for financial aid. Aid for Domestic and International Students Princeton is one of only a handful of schools in the country that do not limit financial aid available for international students. The full need of all admitted international students is met the same as it is for students from the United States. Learn More About Financial Aid Fees and Payment Options Princeton Financial Aid Estimator Apply for Financial Aid Current Undergraduates Current undergraduates must apply for financial aid each year. It is our policy to meet students' full demonstrated need based on student's circumstances each year. Award amounts may vary from year to year, based on changes in a family's financial circumstances and Princeton's cost of attendance. You can learn more about applying for aid through the Undergraduate Financial Aid website. How to Apply for Aid Log In to Princeton Financial Aid Application FAFSA on the Web Financial Aid Forms Funding & Support for Graduate Students Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy We recognize that the decision to pursue graduate study requires a significant commitment of time, energy and resources. Princeton guarantees funding for its regularly enrolled, degree-seeking Ph.D. candidates for all years of regular program enrollment, contingent upon satisfactory academic performance. Support for Ph.D. students to pursue scholarship and research may come in the form of fellowships, assistantships, external funding, travel grants, loans and assistance, and Federal Work Study. The funding for master's candidates varies by department. Master's students also are eligible for assistantships in research and instruction. Learn More about Graduate School Costs and Funding Graduate School Tuition and Costs Funding Sources Stipend Rates Admission & Aid Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice