Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Calendars and Course Catalogs Academic Calendars Academic Year 2022-2023 Academic Year 2022-2023 Revised 4/21/2022 This calendar includes an addendum listing religious holidays for use in requesting excused absences according to University Policy, Excused Absences for University Extracurricular Activities and Religious Holidays. For religious holidays not listed, contact the Office of the Chaplain. Graduate programs in the Cox School of Business, Perkins School of Theology, Dedman School of Law, and Research and Graduate Studies have different calendars. A comprehensive schedule of holiday dates that the offices of the University will be closed will be announced at a later date. Fall Term 2022 August 22 – December 17, 2022 April 4-August 26, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for fall 2022 continuing students for all undergraduates and for graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. May - August: Virtual Orientation experiences for new first-year and transfer undergraduate students. More information about Virtual Orientation is available from the Office of the Student Experience, Student Affairs, 214-768-4560, https://www.smu.edu/studentaffairs/newstudent. TBD: NEW students schedule a move in time in the SMU Housing Portal. TBD: RETURNING students schedule a move in time in the SMU Housing Portal. TBA: Residence halls officially open. August 21, Sunday: Opening Convocation, McFarlin Auditorium. August 22, Monday: First day of classes. August 26, Friday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without tuition billing while remaining enrolled for the term. Last day to file for graduation in December. September 2, Friday: Last day to drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). Last day to withdraw from the university without academic record (withdrawal refund schedule applies). See Bursar’s website for more information. September 5, Monday: Labor Day. University offices closed. September 7, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. September 23-24, Friday-Saturday: Family Weekend. September 27, Tuesday: Early intervention grades due for designated undergraduate students. September 28, Wednesday: Last day for continuing undergraduate students to change their majors before November enrollment. October 10-11, Monday-Tuesday: Fall Break October 21-22, Friday-Saturday: Homecoming Weekend. October 23, Sunday: Midterm grades due for undergraduate students. October 31, Monday: 60 percent point of the term that federal financial aid has been earned if a student officially withdraws from SMU; prior to this date a partial calculated return to federal programs will be required. October 31-November 18, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for spring 2023 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. November 4, Friday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). (This date does not apply to courses in which the last class meeting and final exam have occurred.) November 10, Thursday: Last day for December graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. November 14, Monday: Students should file for May graduation. The last day to file is January 23, 2023. November 22, Tuesday: Last day to withdraw from the University. (This date does not apply to courses in which the last class meeting and final exam have occurred.) November 23, Wednesday: No classes. November 24-25, Thursday–Friday: Thanksgiving holiday. University offices closed. November 30-December 5, Wednesday-Monday: No final examinations or unscheduled tests and papers. December 1, Thursday: Last day for oral/written examinations for December graduate degree candidates. December 5, Monday: Last day of classes. December 6-7, Tuesday-Wednesday: Reading days. December 8-14, Thursday–Wednesday: Examinations. (No examinations scheduled for Sunday). December 15, Thursday: Residence halls close at 10:00 a.m. for winter break. (December graduates should contact the Department of Residence Life and Student Housing). December 16, Friday: December Rotunda Recessional. December 17, Saturday: December Commencement. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. December 23–January 2, Friday-Monday: University closed. December 25, Sunday: Christmas Day. January Term 2023 December 15, 2022 – January 13, 2023 The January Term consists of two primary sessions: Dallas January Session and SMU-in-Taos January Session. Each primary session has different deadline dates. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the January Term, December 15 – January 13, with unique start, end, deadline dates, and class meeting times to accommodate the particular needs of the course. January 1, Sunday: New Year’s Day. January 2, Monday: New Year’s Day observed. University offices closed. Dallas January Session 2023 Note: Classes meet six hours per day, Monday through Friday. See Intersessions website for specific class information. January 3, Tuesday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record. Last day to file for graduation in January Term. January 3, Tuesday: First day of classes. January 4, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. January 6, Friday: Last day for January Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. January 12, Thursday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). January 13, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of the term and conferral of degrees. SMU-in-Taos January Session 2023 Note: Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. December 30, Friday: Travel day and arrival of students 2-6 p.m. (Wellness class students) January 2, Monday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. (Non-Wellness class students) January 2, Monday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record. Last day to file for graduation in January Term. January 3, Tuesday: First day of classes. January 4, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. January 6, Friday: Last day for January Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. January 12, Thursday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). January 13, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of the term and conferral of degrees. January 14, Saturday: Travel day. Spring Term 2023 January 17 – May 13, 2023 October 31–January 23, Monday–Monday: Enrollment for spring 2023 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. January: Virtual Orientation experiences for new first-year and transfer undergraduate students. More information about Virtual Orientation is available from the Office of the Student Experience, Student Affairs, 214-768-4560, https://www.smu.edu/studentaffairs/newstudent. January 1, Sunday: New Year’s Day. January 2, Monday: New Year’s Day observed. University offices closed. TBA: Residential Communities open for Spring term for continuing and new residents. TBA: Spring Rotunda Passage. January 16, Monday: Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. University offices closed. January 17, Tuesday: First day of classes. January 23, Monday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without tuition billing while remaining enrolled for the term. Last day to file for graduation in May. January 30, Monday: Last day to drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). Last day to withdraw from the university without academic record (withdrawal refund schedule applies). See Bursar’s website for more information. February 1, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Also, last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. February 17, Friday: Last day for continuing undergraduate students to change their majors before April enrollment. February 21, Tuesday: Early intervention grades due for designated undergraduate students. March 13-19, Monday-Sunday: Spring break March 22, Wednesday: Midterm grades due for undergraduate students. March 30, Thursday: 60 percent point of the term that federal financial aid has been earned if a student officially withdraws from SMU; prior to this date a partial calculated return to federal programs will be required. April 3-21, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for summer 2023 and fall 2023 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. April 3, Monday: Honors Convocation. April 5, Wednesday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). (This date does not apply to courses in which the last class meeting and final exam have occurred.) April 7, Friday: Good Friday. University offices closed. April 9, Sunday: Easter Sunday. April 13, Thursday: Last Day for May graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. April 20, Thursday: Students should file for August or December graduation. Last day to file for August graduation is June 2. Last day to file for December graduation is the last day to enroll for fall 2023. April 24, Monday: Last day to withdraw from the University. (This date does not apply to courses in which the last class meeting and final exam have occurred.) April 27-May 2, Thursday–Tuesday: No final examinations or unscheduled tests and papers. April 28, Friday: Last day for oral/written examinations for graduate students who are May degree candidates. May 2, Tuesday: Last day of classes. (Follows a Friday schedule.) May 3, Wednesday: Reading Day. May 4-10, Thursday-Wednesday: Examinations (No examinations scheduled for Sunday). May 11, Thursday: Residence halls officially close for non-graduating students. May 12, Friday: Baccalaureate. May 13, Saturday: May Commencement. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. May 14, Sunday: Residence halls officially close for graduating seniors. May Term 2023 May 11 – 27, 2023 The May Term consists of two primary sessions: Dallas May Session and SMU-in-Taos May Session. Each primary session has different deadline dates. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the May Term, May 11-27, with unique start, end, deadline dates, and class meeting times to accommodate the particular needs of the course. Dallas May Session 2023 Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. May 11, Thursday: First day of classes. May 11, Thursday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. May 12, Friday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to file for graduation in May Term. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. May 22, Monday: Last day for May Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. May 22, Monday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). May 25, Thursday: Last day of classes, including examinations. May 27, Saturday: Official close of term and conferral of degrees. SMU-in-Taos May Session 2023 Note: Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. May 11, Thursday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. May 12, Friday: First day of classes. May 12, Friday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. May 15, Monday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to file for graduation in May Term. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. May 22, Monday: Last day for May Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. May 24, Wednesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). May 27, Saturday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. May 28, Sunday: Travel Day. Summer Term 2023 May 30 – July 31, 2023 The summer term consists of four primary sessions: Dallas Full Session, Dallas First Session (June), SMU-in-Taos First Session, and Dallas Second Session (July). Each primary session has different deadline dates. There are also four shorter sessions within the first and second sessions. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the Summer Term, May 30 – July 31, with unique start, end, deadline dates, and class meeting times to accommodate the particular needs of the course. Dallas Full Session Note: Classes meet 2 hours, 15 minutes twice a week or 1 hour, 30 minutes three times a week. May 29, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. May 30, Tuesday: First day of classes. June 2, Friday: Last day to enroll, add courses, or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. Last day to file for August graduation. June 8, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. July 4, Tuesday: Independence Day. University offices closed. July 12, Wednesday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. July 19, Wednesday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). July 25, Tuesday: Last day to withdraw from the University. July 31, Monday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. Dallas First Session (June) Note: Classes meet 2 hours a day, Monday–Friday. May 29, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. May 30, Tuesday: First day of classes. May 31, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 2, Friday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. Last day to file for August graduation. June 14, Wednesday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. June 21, Wednesday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). June 22, Thursday: Last day to withdraw from the University. June 28, Wednesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. July 31, Monday: Official close of term and conferral of degrees. June A (11-day June Session) Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. May 30, Tuesday: First day of classes. May 30, Tuesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. May 31, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. June 8, Thursday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 13, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. June B (11-day June Session) Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. June 14, Wednesday: First day of classes. June 14, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 15, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. June 23, Friday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 28, Wednesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. SMU-in-Taos First Session Note: Permissions of SMU-in-Taos is required for all enrollments. (Regular Session) June 1, Thursday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. June 2, Friday: First day of classes. June 2, Friday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 2, Friday: Last day to file for August graduation. June 5, Monday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. June 8, Thursday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. June 15, Thursday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 19, Monday: Last day of classes, including examinations. June 20, Tuesday: Departure of students. July 31, Monday: Official close of term and conferral of degrees. (Field Session) June 1, Thursday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. June 2, Friday: First day of classes. June 2, Friday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 2, Friday: Last day to file for August graduation. June 5, Monday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. June 8, Thursday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. June 22, Thursday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 27, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. June 28, Wednesday: Departure of students. July 31, Monday: Official close of term and conferral of degrees. Dallas Second Session (July) Note: Classes meet 2 hours a day, Monday–Friday. June 2, Friday: Last day to file for August graduation. June 29, Thursday: First day of classes. June 30, Friday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. July 4, Tuesday: Independence Day. University offices closed. July 5, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. July 10, Monday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. July 21, Friday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). July 25, Tuesday: Last day to withdraw from the University. July 31, Monday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. July A (11-day July Session) Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. June 29, Thursday: First day of classes. June 29, Thursday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 30, Friday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. July 4, Tuesday: Independence Day. University offices closed. July 11, Tuesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). July 14, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. July B (11-day July Session) Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. July 17, Monday: First day of classes. July 17, Monday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. July 18, Tuesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. July 26, Wednesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). July 31, Monday: Last day of classes, including examinations. August Term 2023 August 2 – 17, 2023 The August Term consists of one primary session: SMU-in-Taos August Session. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the August Term, August 2 – 17, with unique start, end, and deadline dates to accommodate the particular needs of the course. SMU-in-Taos August Session Note: Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. August 1, Tuesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. August 2, Wednesday: First day of classes. August 2, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. August 3, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to file for graduation in August Term. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. August 10, Thursday: Last day for August Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. August 16, Wednesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). August 17, Thursday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. August 18, Friday: Travel Day. Major Religious Holidays (August 2022 – August 2023) Listing of religious holidays for use in requesting excused absences according to University Policy, Excused Absences for University Extracurricular Activities and Religious Holidays. For religious holidays not listed, the instructor or supervisor may contact the Office of the Chaplain. Christian Christmas: December 25, 2022 Good Friday: April 7, 2023 Easter Sunday: April 9, 2023 Easter Sunday (Orthodox): April 16, 2023 Hindu Janmashtami: August 19, 2022 Dussehra: October 5, 2022 Diwali: October 24, 2022 Jewish Rosh Hashanah: September 26-27, 2022 Yom Kippur: October 5, 2022 Sukkot/Simchat Torah: October 10-17/October 18, 2022 Hanukkah: December 19-26, 2022 Purim: March 7, 2023 Pesach (Passover): April 6-13, 2023 Shavuot: May 26-27, 2023 Muslim Eid al Adha: July 9, 2022 Islamic New Year: July 30, 2022 Ashura: August 8, 2022 Mawlid an Nabi: October 8, 2022 Ramadan: March 22-April 22, 2023 Eid al Fitr: April 22, 2023 * All holidays begin at sundown before the first day noted and conclude at sundown on the day(s) noted. Academic Calendars Academic Year 2022-2023 Academic Year 2021-2022 Academic Year 2020-2021 Academic Year 2019-2020 Academic Year 2018-2019 Academic Year 2017-2018 Academic Year 2016-2017 Academic Year 2015-2016 Academic Year 2014-2015 Student Quicklinks my.SMU Request Transcript Course Catalog Final Exam Schedule University Curriculum Student Records Forms Preferred Name Honor Roll Important Messages to Students Student Appeals and Petitions Student Rights and Responsibilities Syllabus Library Transfer Credit/Equivalency Webpay Master of Science in Data Science Program Faculty/Staff Quicklinks my.SMU Enrollment Reporting Final Exam Schedule Forms Library: SR Forms (Public) Forms Library: SR Forms (Restricted) Important Messages to Faculty Policies and Procedures [Login] SR Policies & Procedures View all DES P&P Procedures- New Course/Prog Room Scheduling Syllabus Library Enrollment and Scheduling - Advanced Users Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share