COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW News May 17, 2022 WSU Esports varsity team marks a milestone for the program By Jennifer Lane After winning the Eastern College Athletic Conference (ECAC) Championship, the Wichita State Varsity Esports Valorant team qualified for a direct bid to compete in the Collegiate Esports Commissioners Cup (CECC) at the Gateway Center Arena in Atlanta, Georgia, May 7–8. Winning the direct bid to compete allowed the team to bypass the normal qualifier system which includes live and online invitationals. Although the CECC hosts tournaments for multiple games, WSU Esports competed only in the Valorant tournament. WSU Esports placed ninth out of the 16 teams competing in the Valorant games. WSU upset University of Central Florida, lost to Texas A&M University, and won against Sam Houston State University Qualifying for the CECC marked a milestone in the advancement of the WSU Esports program. “CECC was a great overall experience, and one of the best collegiate esports events I’ve personally attended,” said Travis Yang, WSU Esports director. “Unfortunately, there was a three-way tie in our group, and we narrowly missed out on playoffs by a margin of five rounds.” The current Valorant team is composed of five students with a variety of backgrounds including transfer students, WSU Tech transfers, and former members of the varsity esports team from Wichita Southeast High School. The CECC was the first time the WSU Esports Valorant team has had the opportunity to travel. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic there have not been many opportunities for in-person collegiate e-sports events and the student-athletes were looking forward to joining their competitors offline and screen to screen. “An event of this scale provides many new opportunities to build connections with other individuals who share the same interest in esports competition,” said Truman Nguyen, health science major. “I think it was the best time to showcase our skillset as a team at an offline national collegiate event in comparison to online leagues.” In addition to the networking opportunities available to the student-athletes, traveling as a team helped them grow by strengthening their skills and relationships as they experienced the ups-and-downs of the tournament together. They also had the benefit of observing other teams play and will apply what they learned from watching the competition to how they play as a team. “The competition at the CECC Atlanta 2022 tournament was incredible as it consisted of the best teams nationally who qualified through their respective leagues,” said Nguyen. “Being able to compete at this scale of an event against the best teams in the nation was a great learning experience.” “Even though we did not win, we learned a lot about ourselves as a team,” said Vincent Huynh, computer science major. “We learned from other colleges to help our team play, which only motivated us to improve even more.” 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©