Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Educational Leadership and Policy MEd You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Educational Leadership and Policy MEd Educational Leadership and Policy MEd Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy Explore education in the broader community and the policies that impact schools and teaching in urban centers with the Master of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy in Temple’s College of Education and Human Development. This 30- to 36-credit master’s degree pgraom is designed so students can prepare to identify and apply effective practices for ethical and equitable leadership in schools, school districts and community systems. Students have the option to focus in either the Education Policy, School Leadership or Urban Education concentration. Through the program’s curriculum, students form advanced knowledge in the development and implementation of educational policies and reforms; historical, economic and sociocultural community contexts that shape and influence local education and schooling; influence of race, ethnicity and social class on education policy and opportunities for individuals; and landscape of contemporary education reform, and identify skills used by advocates seeking change. Core courses are designed to provide you with a deep understanding of schools, school leadership and the urban environment, as well as research practices and education policy. As an Educational Leadership and Policy master’s student, you’ll review, select, synthesize and apply research and practitioner literature to examine issues in education. You’ll be prepared to identify the complexity of the urban environment, and the unique challenges and opportunities inherent to urban communities. Program Format & Curriculum The Educational Leadership and Policy MEd with concentrations in either Urban Education or Education Policy is a 30-credit program. The Educational Leadership and Policy MEd with a School Leadership concentration may be taken as a 30- or 36-credit degree. Students may take up to five years to complete the program. All classes are offered in-person on Temple’s Main Campus. Core courses you will take as part of the Educational Leadership and Policy MEd include the following. Context for School Reform Critical Understanding of Social Science Research Leadership in Diverse Contexts Policy and Practice in Urban Education Reforming City Schools Research for Change Learn more about courses within the Educational Leadership and Policy MEd curriculum. Certification Students completing the School Leadership concentration have the option to complete a 36-credit curriculum that partially fulfills the state’s Principal Certification or Certification for Supervisor of Curriculum and Instruction. Students seeking state certification will need to complete two clinical experience classes in order to qualify. Find out more about the clinical experience courses. Pathway to Leadership Principal Preparation Program The Pathway to Leadership Principal Preparation Program combines traditional principal certification preparation classwork, coaching and mentorship, as well as tailored and specific training to prepare strong leaders within the School District of Philadelphia. Concentrations You can focus on Educational Leadership and Policy or you can take one of the following concentrations. Education Policy Learn to apply economics and statistics tools to better understand and evaluate education policy. Develop the necessary skills to define the interrelationship of educational policies at the federal, state and local levels. School Leadership Design and use multiple measures of student success to help assess a school’s performance and responsiveness to student needs. Develop effective leadership skills to foster professional growth and organizational change to promote standards-based reform in schools. Partially fulfill Pennsylvania requirements for state Principal Certification or Certification for Supervisor of Curriculum and Instruction. Urban Education Develop an understanding of the ways broad structural factors—such as globalization, poverty and race relations—influence the conditions of education in urban settings. Explore how community members, educators, families and students experience school policies and practices. Engage with community organizations, policy and research think tanks, and schools as essential partners in broadening and sustaining educational opportunities. Related Graduate Degrees Educational Leadership EdD Higher Education EdD Policy and Organizational Studies PhD School Psychology PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Individual faculty advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to ensure your smooth passage through the program. Program Contact For questions regarding the Educational Leadership and Policy MEd, contact the following staff member. Sarah Cordes is an assistant professor and the program contact for the Educational Leadership and Policy MEd. Email: sarah.cordes@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program. You’ll also find opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Graduate Student Organization of the College of Education runs community-based events like school supply drives as well as professional development workshops and activities. The organization upholds a strong commitment to social justice, regularly organizing political events and engaging in projects with community partners. Temple University Graduate Students Association is a student employee union that maintains positive working lives and conditions for graduate student assistants. Temple Student Pennsylvania State Education Association hosts events to share effective classroom techniques and other resources for developing teachers. Enrollment For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-EDLP-MED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Educational Leadership and Policy MEd Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.