Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Students Contact your Advisor Advising Resources and Tools Transfer Credit Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation College Credit Plus Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact 15 to Finish Students FAQ Resources For Advisors UC Advising Conference About Organization Advising Strategic Plan Assessment Contact your Advisor Advising Resources and Tools Math Placement Assessment Home Students Advising Resources and Tools Advising Resources and Tools The following tools and resources are offered and supported by the Office of Advising & Academic Services. Degree audit The degree audit is an online reporting tool used to track your progress toward degree completion. Your degree audit is available under the "My Academics" tab in Catalyst. Create My Schedule Create My Schedule is a class scheduling tool that allows you to generate possible schedules and visually compare course options to find your optimal class schedule. My Graduation Plan My Graduation Plan is a tool that lets you plan courses, compare majors, explore careers, and track degree progress. Appointment scheduling Most advising centers at UC use My Bearcat Network for appointment scheduling. My Bearcat Network is an online scheduling tool that allows you to conveniently make appointments with your advisors, instructors, and select campus services. Advising center directory The advising center directory provides an overview of all advising centers at UC and how to contact them. Advising Portal The Advising Portal is a one-stop-shop for everything advising-related. To make it easier for you to find what you are looking for, resources are grouped by subject area and by alphabet. Math Placement Assessment A math placement assessment is required to determine your math readiness and ensure you are enrolled in appropriate level math classes. Student handbooks A student handbook is a compilation of resources related to a college’s academic policies, program outlines, and student support services and initiatives. Most UC colleges utilize student handbooks, whether as an actual document or a web page. 15 to Finish Completing the right number of credits each semester is important to make sure you stay on track to graduation with as little student debt as possible. To this end, 15 to Finish was launched as a national initiative to inform students of their options and the importance of not taking fewer than 15 credits each semester, if possible. Other resources and tools Stay a Bearcat Select graduate programs offer a more direct path for current undergraduate students to continue their education at UC. These programs may have alternative entry requirements or offer qualifying students admission, based on certain criteria. Majors and programs Search among more than 300 undergrad majors and programs and learn more about admission requirements and courses. Office of Advising & Academic Services 2618 McMicken Circle University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221-0202 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.