Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University Libraries About Services Instruction Digital Commons Special Collections Government Publications Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Technology the sandbox. Check Out Tech Creatorspace & Studios Orientations & Workshops Lambuth Technology Take Action Ask-a-Librarian Interlibrary Loan Reserve Space My Library Account Follow The Libraries InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeBlogsVimeo Home Libraries Technology Microfilm Scanners Library Scanners There are several scanners available at all locations of the University Libraries. McWherter Library Six microfilm scanners - 2nd Floor One KIC scanner - 2nd Floor Lambuth Library 4 Epson ( 3- 9 x12 flatbed); (1- 9 x 12 – scanner is part of inkjet printer) 2 Brother ( 1 -8 ½ x 11 scanner); ( 1 - 9 x 12 – scanner is part of inkjet printer) One HP Printer Scanner Music Library 14" x 17" flatbed scanner and a microfilm/microfiche reader/scanner. Health Science Library One document scanner If in need of assistance, please ask a Research and Instructional Services Student Assistant at the reference desk or use the quick reference guide. Frequently Asked Questions Q: What size paper will my image print on? A: All images will print on an 8 x 11 size paper. Q: I saved my image to the desktop earlier, what happened to it? A: The system will automatically delete any images on the desktop, once you log off. Q: What format will my image scan be in? A: Your image scan will be in a PDF format (Portable Document Format). It is possible to save multiple pages to one document. Q: Can my document be emailed? A: Yes, use the browser to pull up your email account to attach the scanned document(s). Q: How much does it cost to use the microfilm scanners? A: The microfilm scanners are free to use. U of M faculty, staff and students can login with their UUID and password to use the scanners. Guests must obtain a Special Privileges card from the Circulation desk. After, obtaining a Special Privileges card from the Circulation desk, please see the RAD desk staff for a guest login. Guests are allowed one login per day for two hours and use of the scanner is free. Q: I am a guest, how do I print? A: Unfortunately, guests can not print. Guests should bring a USB drive or other storage device because nothing can be saved on the computers. Guests also, have the option of using their email account. Q: I added an OPAC/Microcard to the microfilm scanner, but I do not see my image. How can I see the OPAC/Microcard card? A: Select film type and the image should be visible. If image is not present, please see the RAD student on duty in room 216 or the RAD staff on the 1st floor. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/18/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.