Skip to main content For Alumni Contact Us GIVE NOW Where To Give Ways to Give Donors Resources Give Now Where To Give Ways to Give Donors Resources Contact Us For Alumni Clemson University Planned Giving You can make a powerful difference in our University's future by including Clemson in your estate plans. Clemson University Planned Giving You can make a powerful difference in our University's future by including Clemson in your estate plans. PLANNED GIVING HOME How To Give What To Give Learn About Wills Overview Bequest Language Wills Planner Free Estate Planning Guide Donor Stories Our Team Monthly eNewsletters Free Estate Planning Guide Learn about Wills and Bequests » A bequest is one of the easiest gifts to make. With the help of an advisor, you can include language in your will or trust specifying a gift be made to family, friends or Clemson University as part of your estate plan. IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution (QCD) » If you have an IRA and are 70½ or older, you can donate tax-free from your IRA to Clemson. This may also help you meet your Required Minimum Distribution (RMD), thus lowering your taxable income. Bequest Language » You may be looking for a way to make a significant gift to help further our university's mission. A bequest is a gift made through your will or trust. It is one of the most popular and flexible ways that you can support Clemson. Charitable Gift Annuity » A charitable gift annuity is a great way you can benefit by making a gift to Clemson. You transfer your cash or property to our organization and we promise to make fixed payments to you for life at a rate based on your age. Clemson Legacy Society » The Clemson Legacy Society is an honor society created especially to recognize individuals who have included Clemson University in their last will and testaments or as a beneficiary of a revocable trust, retirement account, brokerage account or life insurance policy. In the News » Thank you for your interest in Clemson University. Our hope is to serve you and your family with helpful information. Calculators » Please select a presentation that shows the income and tax benefits for you. Resources for Professional Advisors © Copyright 2022 Crescendo Interactive, Inc. All Rights Reserved. PRIVACY STATEMENT This site is informational and educational in nature. It is not offering professional tax, legal, or accounting advice. For specific advice about the effect of any planning concept on your tax or financial situation or with your estate, please consult a qualified professional advisor.