Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Apply Brown Undergraduate Students: Apply to Become a Writing Fellow The 2022-2023 Writing Fellow application cycle is now closed. The program will have its next hiring cycle in Spring 2023. Writing Fellows are trained peer tutors who partner with faculty and teaching assistants to provide one-on-one writing support in courses across the curriculum. Every year, Writing Fellows are chosen from applicants in the current first-year, sophomore, and junior cohorts. Writing Fellows typically work with 5-9 students per semester, responding to first drafts of papers and then meeting with writers in face-to-face conferences to discuss their plans for revision. During their first semester, all new Writing Fellows enroll in English 1190M: The Theory and Practice of Writing, where they learn inclusive, equitable, and anti-racist approaches to peer tutoring. Beginning in Fall 2022, both new and returning Fellows will receive a $1,200 stipend per semester for their work. Returning fellows are also eligible to apply for additional paid leadership opportunities within the program. A full list of Writing Fellows’ responsibilities can be found in the Writing Fellows Job Description. Why become a Writing Fellow? You love to write yourself and want to continue growing and developing as a writer. You enjoy reading others’ writing and you’re excited about the opportunity to talk about and work with other writers on their writing. You're committed to anti-racist practice. You’re interested in pursuing leadership roles within the program by becoming a Student Assistant Director or a Diversity and Inclusion Outreach Coordinator. You want to be a member of one of the oldest writing fellows programs in the country. You're invested in our community values. Community Values, Writing Fellows Living List A living list is a set of community guidelines, outlining our expectations for each other and putting into concrete words our collective values as peer mentors and guides. These are considerations we will hold ourselves accountable for in our interactions and communications. As it is living, this is an always in-process list. Listen to receive and do not respond. #Leanonme, we are resources for one another. Recognize forms of labor. Trust, ask. We all still have things to learn. Be generous (listeners, humans). Asking questions is important :). Throw sunshine, not shade. Hold people accountable respectfully. Be conscientious of communication. Respect & lean on writers' vulnerability. Questions? Email [email protected] Brown Faculty Members Why should I use Writing Fellows in my courses? The Writing Fellows Program was established in 1982 to help integrate the study of writing into courses throughout the university. This Program trains selected undergraduates as writing consultants and makes them available to work with students taking courses in a wide variety of disciplines. The Writing Fellows assigned to a given course comment on students' written work and hold individual conferences with students where they discuss these comments and revision strategies. By reinforcing writing skills across the curriculum, the Program helps students learn to adapt to different modes/genres, audiences, and rhetorical situations. Writing Fellows also play an important role in helping students satisfy the undergraduate writing requirement at Brown. Additionally, faculty who have worked with the Program in the past report that (1) it has allowed them to emphasize high-quality writing in their courses without increasing their workload and (2) that they receive more readable, organizationally sound, and stylistically sophisticated papers, allowing them to devote their energy to evaluating their students’ comprehension of the subject matter. How do I use Writing Fellows in my course this semester? Writing Fellows are embedded within courses that include at least two writing assignments. These assignments should be scaffolded in your syllabus so that writers in your course: submit their papers to Writing Fellows, receive feedback from Fellows, attend a face-to-face meeting with Fellows, and revise their drafts before submission. What are the selection criteria for assigning Writing Fellows to courses? Faculty requests for Writing Fellow support will be reviewed by a committee consisting of the Writing Center Assistant Directors and the Senior Associate Director of English Language Support. Selections will be made according to the following criteria: Completion of Faculty Writing Fellow request form; Robust descriptions of at least two (2) major writing assignments; A course schedule that allows time for students to revise and resubmit their assignments after receiving Writing Fellow feedback; Clear due dates for all major writing assignments; Expectations for the estimated number of hours that Fellows would need to support course assignments (Writing Fellows usually work 4 hours per week during a 15 week semester); Potential benefit for Writing Fellows (professional, academic, interpersonal, etc.) from working with you and your students; and A shared investment in the Writing Fellows Programs’ mission to promote equitable, inclusive, and anti-racist approaches to writing. Additionally, we strive to provide Writing Fellow assignments equally across disciplinary units (STEM, humanities, social sciences). What happens if I don’t get assigned Writing Fellows this semester? Are there any additional writing supports available for my course? The Writing Center will work with you to create a suite of embedded writing support options catered specifically for your course, which may include: Pre-scheduled Writing Center appointments: Students secure individual writing consultation appointments near the beginning of the semester, based on writing assignment due dates listed in your course syllabus; Facilitated Writing Peer Response Workshop: In-class workshops providing small group or individual peer-to-peer writing feedback; Specialized Writing Workshops: Up to three (3) writing workshops on writing processes, revision strategies, overcoming writer’s block, annotations, citations, and more; and Introduction to the Writing Center: In-class presentation and Q&A about writing support services at Brown. Please contact us at [email protected] to schedule an appointment to discuss writing support options for your courses this semester. An application for faculty members interested in working with a Writing Fellow in Fall 2022 will be available on this site in late Spring. For questions about the Writing Fellows Program, please email [email protected] or contact Dr. Jessica Tabak at [email protected]. Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top