Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Community Connection Magazine Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Menu Community Connection Magazine From the Dean Stories BSW MSW PhD Alumni Community Faculty Research C3I Class Notes Submit News Ideas Print Archives Field Awards Field Agency Awards 2022: Task Supervisor of the Year Field Agency Awards: 2022 Field Instructor of the Year School of Social Work Baylor>Community Connection Magazine >Stories>Meet Nataly Sanchez: 2021 BSW Intern of the Year Meet Nataly Sanchez: 2021 BSW Intern of the Year By Lucy Ruscitto June 23, 2021 “Nataly represents so much of what we are talking about nationally in terms of health care workers on the front lines during COVID-19. She is an academically excellent student. Nataly managed the many challenges of COVID-19 in her placement with dedication, perseverance and excellent client care this year,” said a colleague of the 2021 BSW Intern of the Year: Nataly Sanchez. Nataly said she chose social work because of her strong passion for community building as well as her goal to fighting human trafficking. “One of my previous professors was so passionate in her work to fight against human trafficking in Waco. After having her for two courses and seeing her love for it in each class, I spoke to her about this shared interest,” Nataly said. “She encouraged me to learn more about social work and what it could do to work with this population. I didn’t know much about social work initially, but after taking one of the social work courses, I decided to switch my major because I found that this is the type of advocacy work I would like to pursue.” This year, Nataly served as an intern at Baylor Scott & White - Hillcrest, and although it wasn’t necessarily easy, she said it was certainly rewarding. She said it taught her the importance of adaptability, being a professional, taking care of oneself and attention to details. After graduation, Nataly, who is from Eagle Pass, Texas, plans to get married in the month of June, and pursue her MSW at the Garland School of Social Work and further deepen her roots in the Waco community. “After this, I hope to stay in Waco and serve the Waco community through my work,” she said. Congratulations, Nataly! The Waco community will only benefit from your compassion and hard work. #sicem Explore More Featured Meet MSW Outstanding Student Trinity Martinez May 12, 2022 Pope Francis once said, “Go and show love to everyone, because your life is a precious mission: it is not a burden to be borne, but a gift to offer.” And when you meet our 2022 MSW Outstanding Student Trinity Martinez, you know no other mantra could better describe her. Trinity is an advanced standing student from San Antonio, Texas, but has lived all over the US and has traveled the world through mission work and study abroad programs, including countries such as Lithuania, Jamaica, Italy and Ireland. All of these experiences contributed to her ability to adapt well to change and exposed her to many cultures and diversity at a formative age. Today, she is a natural leader, committed to speaking up for others and standing up for what she believes. Featured Meet BSW Outstanding Student Micaela Jones May 9, 2022 From a family of educators arises Micaela Jones—emerging social worker. This graduating senior originally thought she would continue the “Jones legacy” as a teacher until she began student teaching and realized that many times, the “home prevented students from being able to thrive in the classroom.” Couple that with a heart for justice, and it became clear that social work was the correct path for Micaela to pursue so that she could impact change at a larger systemic level. It was this passion that earned Micaela the title of BSW Outstanding Student of the year! Research Healthy Bonds for Black Fathers-in-law, Sons-in-law Feb. 9, 2022 What does a healthy relationship look like for a Black son-in-law and his father-in-law? A study aims to answer that question and was published in “Psychology of Men & Masculinities” by University of Maryland School of Social Work’s (UMSSW) Assistant Professor Ericka M. Lewis, PhD, MSW, with Professor Michael E. Woolley, PhD, MSW, and Baylor University Assistant Professor Brianna P. Lemmons, PhD, MSW. Studies on in-laws are far and few between, less so for male in-law relationships, and even less so for Black male in-laws. Community The Enneagram and Baylor's Certification Program Oct. 19, 2021 The Enneagram, unlike many modern-day personality tools such as the Myers-Briggs or the Birkman, can trace its roots to ancient times. The word itself is derived from the Greek words ennea (nine) and grammos (drawn symbol). The Enneagram is represented by a circle with nine different starting points and nine equidistant lines drawn within the circle. It is meant to show nine different perspectives or “personalities” for how different people view and understand the world. The lines within the circle show how different personalities interact with each other in times of stress or growth. Numerous tests or checklists can be found online or in books to help someone identify which personality type resonates the most with themselves. However, as learned from Dr. Jon Singletary, Dean of the Garland School of Social Work, the Enneagram is so much more than just a test. Dr. Singletary describes the Enneagram as a resource that can be used to better help us understand ourselves. He adds that the Enneagram can reveal more about how God has created us, is calling us, and transforming us. Featured Crystal Brown Alumni Profile: Shining Her Light For Others Oct. 5, 2021 Military veteran and Baylor alumna Crystal Brown is shining her Baylor light via social work in a way she never expected—in the field of nephrology. Growing up, Brown recalls seeing her cousin dressed professionally each day as an attorney. She always knew as a kid that she too wanted to be a professional one day so she would be able to establish her own voice. Are you looking for more Stories? All StoriesArchives Stories BSW MSW PhD Alumni Community Faculty Research C3I Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 From the Dean Stories BSW MSW PhD Alumni Community Faculty Research C3I Class Notes Submit News Ideas Print Archives Field Awards Field Agency Awards 2022: Task Supervisor of the Year Field Agency Awards: 2022 Field Instructor of the Year School of Social Work