MINS Home History Who We Are - Staff - Director - Neuroscience Advisory Committee - Faculty (via NGG) What We Do - Research - Training - Outreach - MINS Calendar Rising Star Award - Rising Star Black Lives Matter - Positions - At Penn - Elsewhere Links Mahoney Institute for Neurosciences Welcome Founded as the Institute of Neurological Sciences in 1953 by the visionary professor of Anatomy, Dr. Louis Flexner, our Institute was renamed in 1985 to reflect the keen interest and support that corporate magnate David Mahoney brought to neuroscience. Throughout our history, we have emphasized and nurtured the idea that major advances in brain research would require the expertise, dedication, and cooperation of scientists from many fields of research. Once a novel approach, such cross-campus, cross-disciplinary research and training have become the template for neuroscience at academic institutions around the world. Today, our scientists study cellular and molecular aspects of the brain; development, regeneration, and plasticity; systems neuroscience; behavior and cognition; the pathology of brain disease; and computational neuroscience. Our ranks include over 150 faculty from 32 departments in six schools, including Arts and Sciences, Dental Medicine, Engineering and Applied Sciences, Medicine, Nursing, Veterinary Medicine, and The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. We continue to forge ahead with the spirit that has put the Institute at the forefront of neuroscience research and training since its founding. MINS founded and continues to provide substantial support for the Neuroscience Graduate Group (NGG), Penn's award-winning doctoral program in neuroscience. MINS also is closely affiliated with the Penn Medicine Neuroscience Center (PMNC), a more clinically oriented Center focused on understanding and treating diseases of the brain, spine, and peripheral nervous system. Events Neurosciences Calendar News Standing with the people of Ukraine CONGRATULATIONS John Dani, MERIT Award Winner Chair, Neuroscience Director, MINS MERIT Award from NIH NIDA for the research grant entitled, "Altered Midbrain GABAergic Circuitry Drives Greater Cocaine Self-administration" Michael Platt What a Video Game Can Reveal About Monkeys' Minds 'A message from J. Larry Jameson, MD, PhD & Kevin B. Mahoney' Support for Our Community Regarding Violence and Anti-Asian Hate Incidents 'A message to the Penn community regarding violence and Anti-Asian hate incidents' 'Behind the CV: a discussion with John Dani, Ph.D.' MindCORE spotlights the life of John Dani, PhD (Chair, Dept. of Neuroscience; David J. Mahoney Professor of Neurological Sciences; UPenn). 'Meet the Author Series' Penn Integrates Knowledge Professor Michael Platt, "The Leader's Brain: Enhance Your Leadership, Build Stronger Teams, Make Better Decisions, and Inspire Greater Innovation with Neuroscience." 'Preventing Relapse' Research by Heath Schmidt of the School of Nursing and the Perelman School of Medicine finds that activating endogenous anti-craving circuits in the brain was sufficient to reduce cravings for cocaine, one of the most commonly abused illicit drugs in the United States. 'Decision-Making' A modified game of 'chicken' reveals what happens in the brain during decision-making 'Wakefulness' Scientists identify brain cells that drive wakefulness and resist general anesthetics 'Tragic death of Walter Wallace, Jr.' '2020 Penn Medicine Awards of Excellence' "TEACHING" '2020 Penn Medicine Awards of Excellence' "RESEARCH" 'Biomedical Honor' "Hongjun Song is one of five Penn faculty elected to the National Academy of Medicine and he is among the 100 new members" 'Daniel Yoshor, MD' "Brain Implant Bypasses Eyes to Help Blind People See" 'Tau Buildup' "Researchers discover a rare genetic form of dementia" 'Alzheimers Advance' "Penn researchers uncover epigenetic drivers for Alzheimer's disease" 'David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA names 2020 Switzer Prize recipient' "Amita Sehgal won the award, which honors excellence in basic science research" 'Support for International Students' 'Launch of Action for Cultural Transformation (ACT) & Implicit Bias Training' 'Plans for Fall' In a message to the University community, President Amy Gutmann, Provost Wendell Pritchett, and EVP Craig Carnaroli announced a hybrid model for the fall semester that will allow many students to return in a limited, careful way, incorporating online and virtual learning with on-campus instruction where it can be provided safely and 's essential to academic needs. "With everyone on campus affirming their willingness and doing their part to help themselves and others stay safe, we can provide a robust and meaningful Penn education in a manner that is as safe as possible for all involved," they said. 'Lasting Trauma' Specialists from the Perelman School of Medicine, School of Arts & Sciences' Department of Psychology, Graduate School of Education, and Division of the Vice Provost for University Life discuss the mental health impacts of Black people being subjected to videos of African Americans being killed by police. 'Penn Medicine's Commitment to Taking Steps to a More Inclusive and Just Community' 'Academics for Black Survival and Wellness anti-Black racism training' 'Academics for Black Survival and Wellness' 'Rays of Hope' In a message to the University community, Provost Wendell Pritchett called on Penn people to set in motion projects that will address racial injustice on campus, in Philadelphia, and in their own communities. He praised the "rays of hope" represented by peaceful marches that "represent the broadest possible cross section of America." 'A Message From the Provost' 'NGG Responses to Racism' 'Student Resources and Benefits' 'Overcoming Justices' In a message to the Penn community, President Amy Gutmann wrote of the "grim manifestations of ongoing racism, repression, and inflammation of hatred in our society." She said that the work of the University "radiates out, in partnership with our beloved city, and further still, to help heal the wounds and overcome the injustices of our deeply polarized society and world." She also announced that 2020-21 will be a Year of Civic Engagement "to engage with the communities outside our campus, from our immediate West Philadelphia neighborhood, to our surrounding city as it recovers from the pandemic, to the wider circle of our nation and our world." 'Message to the Penn Community from President Amy Gutmann' 'Affirming Penn Medicine's Values Following This Week's Tragic Events' 'A Newly Discovered Gene' "A Study of Fruit Flies Finds a Direct Link Between Illness and the Need for More Sleep" View more MINS News here! Twitter Feed Tweets by @PennNGG The Penn Current article on MINS Copyright © 2013 The University of Pennsylvania Clinical Research Building, Philadelphia, PA 19104