Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Home Alumni Stories Class of 2022 Grad + Alumni Programs See More Stories Prev Overview Next Future Alumni Class of 2022 Grad + Alumni Programs You’re about to join the global community of UW alumni. Welcome! The UW Alumni Association is here with a slate of offerings to help you have a Grad Week to remember. We can’t wait to see you. Class of 2022 Husky Sunset Fri. May 13, 2–4 p.m. Calling all Class of 2022 graduate and professional students! Join us at Sylvan Grove for food, fun and a well-deserved toast to the future. Sponsored by the Graduate & Professional Student Senate and UWAA. Have you joined the UWAA pack? Be sure to stop by the UWAA table for a member gift! Learn More Red Square Pop Up Mon. May 16, 9 a.m.–12 p.m. Visit our table on Red Square and enjoy a donut and coffee on us! You can also grab a photo with our giant inflatable Husky (all dressed up for graduation), take a spin on our prize wheel and stop by the BECU table. Grads and GOLDs Night Out Wed. May 18, 6–8 p.m. Ballard’s alumni-owned Bale Breaker & Yonder Cider Taproom is your destination to meet up with fellow Huskies and score a sharp headshot for your online profiles. UWAA members enjoy a free pint glass and an exclusive express line for photos! Register Now Free Thank-You Cards Sign up by May 20 The perfect way to recognize those special professors, advisors, family members or friends who made your UW years unforgettable. We’ll deliver them to your doorstep — you just sign, stamp and send. Get Your Cards Class of 2022 Photo Opportunities UW Bothell Photos at the Big W Wed. May 25, 11 a.m.–2 p.m. Wear your cap and gown or your favorite Husky gear and stop by the big W on campus for a professional photo, courtesy of your friends at UWAA. Photos will be emailed after the event. Seattle Pop-Up Play: Pic Me! Thurs. June 2, 10 a.m.–2 p.m. With three photo stations around the HUB, here’s another opportunity for Seattle grads to score a souvenir photo with your favorite giant inflatable Husky. Grab your squad and make a memory! UW Tacoma Photos at the Big W Thurs. June 2, 11 a.m.–2 p.m. Wear your cap and gown or your favorite Husky gear and stop by the big W on campus for a professional photo. Photos will be emailed after the event. Did you buy a UWAA membership? Pick up your grad box and membership card when you get your picture taken! Class of 2022 UW Alumni Association Membership Keep your Husky connection strong with a free digital UWAA membership, or upgrade to a full membership to enjoy your official UW alumni license plate frame and special Class of 2022 perks! Join the Pack UWAA will be on-site at University Book Store May 31–June 10 for in-person membership sales and grad box pick-up. Enjoy a summer of fun with UWAA Keep an eye open for these UWAA events coming soon! May 25 UWAA Member Shopping Night at University Book Store — Enjoy exclusive after-hours access and extra savings on books, gifts, gear and swag, including the new Champion line. June 29 UW Night at the Seattle Storm — Cheer for the home team with your fellow Huskies as the Storm take on the Las Vegas Aces! July 13 UWAA Member Shopping Night at Brooks Running — Shop with the pack and save on this top local athletics brand. July 23 UW Night at the Sounders — The Sounders play the Colorado Rapids at Lumen Field. UWAA members enjoy a free UW rally scarf. July 30 Better Together Service Day — The UW and Washington State University team up with BECU to fight hunger. Aug. 5 UW Night at the Mariners — Join your fellow Huskies for a pregame party before the Mariners play the Los Angeles Angels. Thank you to our partner: See More Stories Prev Overview Next Share this page UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA