Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Student Life and Leadership Main Navigation About Resources Fraternity & Sorority Life Involvement Show Extended Clubs & Organizations Start an Organization Manage an Organization Join an Organization Sports Clubs Sports Clubs List Join a Sport Club Sports Club Inter-Club Council Coaches Forms & Resources FAQs Community Service Programs Project Directors Service Hours Volunteer Leadership Programs Special Events Giving Off Campus Guests TitanLink Be a Volunteer Project Directors Service Hours Community Service Programs Community Service & Leadership Programs (CSLP) enhances the Titan Experience by providing a variety of community service opportunities for students to engage with the local community through intentional, high impact services and programs. Please note due to the global pandemic all of our service opportunities will be done close to home for the Fall 2020 semester. Volunteers will not need to gather as a group to participate in our projects. Below are the community service volunteer opportunities: Future Titans Read Future Titans Read aims to provide children the opportunity to have a story read to them from the comfort of their own home. Early literacy is so important to kids, and not everyone has the time or resources to read to their children as much as the child may want. Especially in the times we are currently living in. Our YouTube storytelling project has videos of CSUF students reading their favorite children's books on many topics and in many languages. Be sure to complete the Volunteer Interest Form on the Community Service Programs TitanLink page, if you would like to volunteer. It's a fun and meaningful way to earn service hours from home! How to get involved: 1.Who Can Participate? All Titans (Students, Faculty and Staff) are welcome to participate in the project. Let's build something wonderful together! 2. See some examples of our story videos so you know what to create. Visit our YouTube page, CSUF Future Titans Read to see some examples. Feel free to subscribe and share with the kids in your life to help the channel grow. We'd like this project to continue this year and beyond so there will always be virtual service available to the Titan Community. 3. Read a Book After completing the Volunteer Interest Form, we will send you a book and instructions for how to complete your recording. 4. Record your story, edit your video, upload it to dropbox, and send the link to us. Before putting it in your dropbox, please be sure the video is the highest resolution possible. It helps to select best quality for the export as well. For instructions on how to complete your recording, please watch this tutorial to learn how to create your story video. Need more information? Feel free to reach out to csufprojectread20@gmail.com and we will happily help you! Happy Reading! Titans Forever Join us as we spend time with seniors at the Buena Vista Care Center. Once scheduled, you can RSVP to join us on on our TitanLink page. Titan Kids at Orangewood Titan Kids works with Orangewood Children’s Home (OCH). OCH provides a safe environment for children in Orange County who are in the foster system, through no fault of their own. Volunteers visit the Orangewood Children’s Home twice a month to interact with the children through a variety of activities such as storytelling, arts and crafts, and active games. These events take place in Orange. *This program is currently on hold for the children's protection. We will resume when it is safe to do so.* Tuffy's Friends at CSUF Tuffy's Friends is dedicated to fostering friendships between Cal State Fullerton students and individuals with varying disabilities in the surrounding community. Volunteers participate in a variety of group activities with special education students ages 18-22 from the Fullerton Joint Union High School District’s Adult Transition Program. Our events are fun and volunteers will get to make new friends to spend time with and enjoy. To sign up to volunteer please see the events on our TitanLink page . TBA We are working to set up a project focused on the environment. Stay tuned! This site is maintained by Student Life and Leadership. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact studentlife@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses AJAX data import which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.