Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information for: Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Diversity & Inclusion History & Mission Facts & Figures Events News & Announcements Contact Related Links Advising Maps & Directions FAQs Admission Overview How to Apply Why Choose Woods? Tuition & Aid Visit Alumni Tuition Discount Related Links Articulation Agreements Course Schedule & Registration Process Events Facts & Figures Undergraduate Overview Bachelor's Degree Applied Liberal Arts (ALA) Business Communication Corporate Systems Criminal and Social Justice Economics English Concentration (ALA) History Concentration (ALA) Information Systems Interdisciplinary Studies Concentration (ALA) Natural Sciences Philosophy Concentration (ALA) Political Science Concentration (ALA) Psychology Sociology Concentration (ALA) Sustainability Certificate Related Links Advising BC Summer Session Course Schedule & Registration Process Nondegree Students Visiting Students Resources for Current Students Woods Academic Calendar Graduate Overview Master's Programs M.S. in Applied Analytics M.S. in Applied Economics Articulation Agreements MSAE Advisory Board M.S. in Applied Economics & Cybersecurity Policy & Governance Master of Healthcare Administration M.S. in Leadership & Administration M.S. in Sports Administration Certificates Corporate Communications and Marketing Online Certificate in Data Analytics Executive Leadership and Organizational Development Human Resources Management Project Management Cybersecurity Graduate Certificates Cybersecurity Analytics Sports Analytics Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Related Links Academic Policies BC Summer Session Executive Education Nondegree Students Registration Process Student Life Woods Academic Calendar Community Overview Jesuit Values Advising Woods College Graduation Process Living in Boston BC Resources Related Links Campus Life Career Center Events Manresa Experience Veterans Experience Course Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Related Links Academic Calendar Woods Faculty Resources Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Woods College site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Psychology Home Undergraduate Bachelor's Degree Psychology B.A., Psychology Bachelor's of Arts Do you wonder why we do what we do and what makes us tick? Seek the answers through this flexible program, which covers aspects of many applied areas in psychology. Whether you enroll full- or part-time, you'll study with leading practitioners and industry experts as you learn to apply key theories from the field of psychology to solve real-world issues at work, in your community, and in society. Courses are offered weekends, nights, online, and in a hybrid format. This major is ideal for students who want to analyze human behavior through the lenses of developmental history, social sciences, cognitive psychology, and civil society. You’ll also learn the theory and practice of psychological counseling and apply foundational principles of developmental and cognitive psychology to case studies while considering the field’s ethical dimensions. Apply Inquire Explore B.A. Programs Core Curriculum A distinguishing characteristic of liberal arts education is a required core curriculum. The Bachelor of Arts programs require the following core courses: The Examined Life Woods College Formative Seminar 2 English courses: - College Writing - Literary Works or other core literature course 2 Philosophy courses (one of which should be an Ethics course) 2 Theology courses 2 Social Science courses 2 History courses (1 must be non-Western) 1 Quantitative Reasoning course 1 Natural Science course 1 Arts course 1 Cultural Diversity Course The Purposeful Life Major Requirements Requirements for Major (12 courses) Course Code Applied Statistics ADMT1805 Introduction to Psychology ADPS1100 Research Methods for the Social Sciences ADPS1153 Developmental Psychology ADPS1261 Cognitive Psychology ADPS2272 Psychology in Context ADPSxxxx 6 Psychology Electives Electives Students are required to complete six elective courses in psychology. To assist students in selecting the best electives for their academic goals, we have developed three areas that reflect possible career paths or areas of interest for which the particular course might be helpful. Some courses will fit into multiple areas. Students do not need to take all of their electives within a single area and the areas will not be reflected on the student’s transcript or diploma. These are simply to guide students in selecting electives and to provide a better understanding of how the B.A. in Psychology might be put to use. Community Psychology (CP) Health/Human Services Psychology (HP) Industrial-Organizational Psychology (IO) Courses within Community Psychology (CP) bring together many different lenses through which to understand the human being in context. Courses may explore concepts of social justice, social empowerment, and inequality, encouraging students to understand the roles of power and privilege and their impacts on various populations in an effort to conceptualize effective leadership and active citizenship. Students will apply theories of psychology to societal systems and institutions with an aim of developing effective approaches to fostering collaborative relationships and advocating for more just civil structures. Community Psychology is a broad field with many areas of application including education, public policy, community resources and organizations, and research. CP Career Paths Education Programming; Special Education Paraprofessional; Policy Planning, Creation, and Implementation; Community Resource Creation; Community Health Worker Coordinator; Conciliation Specialist; ABA Therapist; Health Data Specialist Courses within Health/Human Services (HP) explores areas of psychology related to physical and mental health. It seeks to give students a deeper understanding of how to apply psychological theories to meet the diverse needs of society and develop trusting relationships with individuals they aim to support. Many of the courses in this area equip students to pursue entry-level positions in the field of healthcare advising, community health promotion and outreach, as well as research and data collection. Health/Human Services is wide-reaching, including the fields of mental health treatment and advisement, data collection, research, and many areas within physical healthcare. HP Career Paths Research Assistant; Mental Health Associate; Mental Health Technician; Health Data Specialist; Health and Community Interventionist; Health Promotion Specialist; Health Educator; Outreach Worker; ACCS Outreach Worker Courses within Industrial and Organizational Psychology (IO) investigates the role of psychology in efficient, effective, and equitable systems and organizations. These courses explore a range of institutions, the psychological processes within each, as well as the individual’s place within these group/organizational dynamics. Students will also discuss the psychology behind individual differences and productive, enriching interpersonal relationships. Industrial and Organizational Psychology involves the application of psychological principles and themes to the field of business, consulting, and human resources. IO Career Paths Product Analyst; Employee Experience Specialist; Talent Management Consulting; Strategic/Brand Planner Learning Outcomes Students will be able to interpret and evaluate psychological phenomena by engaging in scientific reasoning and dynamic problem solving in broad, multi-disciplinary contexts Students will be able to identify and evaluate trustworthy scholarly resources; articulate ways in which context shapes research questions and findings; and interpret basic statistical analyses found within those resources. Students will be able to evaluate and apply the ethical standards of the psychology field in their professional and personal lives. Students will be able to propose solutions to civic, social, and global problems through the creative application of psychological theories and constructs while recognizing society’s inherent diversity and the ways in which that diversity impacts those psychological theories and constructs. Students will be able to create effective communication materials in written, oral, and digital formats, including the correct implementation of the APA style. apply Apply Print Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Deadlines Fall Enrollment August 1 Spring Enrollment December 1 Summer Enrollment April 15 Rolling Admission After deadlines, as space permits. Application Start Your Application If you are mailing hard copies of application materials, please send them to: Boston College Woods College of Advancing Studies Admissions Office St. Mary's Hall South 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 *Current Woods College Undergraduate degree students interested in adding a certificate to their plan of study should not use the online application. Declare your certificate here Academic transcripts Submit the following: Official high school transcript with degree conferral date or official GED Official college transcript(s) from all previously attended colleges or universities If you have been conferred your associate's degree, you may submit an Attestation Form in lieu of an official high school transcript. The completed form can be sent to wcasadm@bc.edu. Please mail transcripts to: Boston College Woods College of Advancing Studies Admissions Office St. Mary's Hall South 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 If your academic institution provides electronic transcripts please indicate wcasadm@bc.edu as the recipient. Applicants whose Native language is not English are required to demonstrate English language proficiency, for required scores, visit our International Student page. International Student page Essays To be uploaded to your online Application Form. Please submit two essays by responding to two of the topics listed below. The essays should be typewritten, double-spaced, and each essay should be limited to 500 – 750 words in length. The essays are important to the Admissions Committee as they allow the committee to assess your personal goals, your reasons for choosing the program to which you are applying, your commitment to your educational goals, and your writing ability. The essays must be uploaded as part of your on-line application. Discuss your reason(s) for applying to the BA program at the Woods College of Advancing Studies at this time. Support your reasons with specific examples. Discuss your academic goals and how they apply to your planned career and/or life goals. Describe a life changing experience that had a significant personal impact on you. Please include details about the situation (which could be positive or negative), and what were the lessons learned. Application Fee Application fee: $45 Paid through online application. Recommendations Two Letters of Recommendation Letters must be sent directly from recommender either through online application portal or directly to Woods College (wcasadm@bc.edu). We will not accept letters that are not in a sealed envelope mailed directly from recommender or emailed directly from recommender. Please note: Letters of recommendations should be provided by professional or academic recommenders. International Students 1. Demonstrated English Language Proficiency required (minimum TOEFL score of 90-100) For additional information about scores, visit our International Student page. 2. Interview For all international students and non-native English speakers, interviews are conducted as part of the application process. The purpose of the interview is for the admission committee to gain a better sense of an applicant and how the program fits his or her academic and vocational needs. Additionally, the interview provides the committee an opportunity to assess a student’s specific information and to address the unique needs one may have in transitioning to Boston College. The interview will last no more than 15 minutes. Interviews will only be scheduled once an application has been submitted. 3. Transcript Evaluation All students who have, or are currently attending, an institution outside of the United States must provide a detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation indicating the following: For BA applicants: conferral of a secondary school degree that is equivalent to a U.S. high school’s degree from an accredited institution. For MS applicants: conferral of an undergraduate degree that is equivalent to a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution. This evaluation is not just an English translation, but a document provided by an accredited evaluating agency that shows all grades, course titles, credit hours, United States degree equivalency, grade-point average (GPA), and date of degree conferral. This detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation must be submitted to complete the application. Please request a detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation for all international institutions where a degree was conferred from one of the following agencies: Educational Credential Evaluators P.O. Box 514070 Milwaukee, WI 53203-3470 www.ece.org Center for Educational Documentation P.O. Box 170116 Boston, MA 02117 www.cedevaluations.com SpanTran 450 Seventh Ave, Suite 804 New York, NY 10123 SpanTran World Education Services Inc. P.O. Box 5087 Bowling Green Station New York, NY 10274-5087 www.wes.org Financial Aid & Scholarships For Financial Aid and Scholarship information please click the link below Financial Aid and Scholarship Information Questions Schedule an appointment with an admissions counselor through our online calendar. Online Calendar inquire Get More Information Loading... Quick Links Advising Take a Course as a Nondegree Student Why Woods? Diversity & Inclusion Events Back To Top Back To Top Woods College of Advancing Studies St. Mary's Hall South, Ground Floor Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts 02467 617-552-3900 woodscollege@bc.edu About Admission Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Community Apply Contact Give Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College