Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Engineering and Computer Science Menu Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science About Education Materials Science Faculty Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise Baylor>Engineering & Computer Science>About>News>ECS Impact: Springing Back into the Community ECS Impact: Springing Back into the Community April 13, 2022 by Grace Jacoby, ECS student marketing specialist WACO, Texas (April 13, 2022) – With life mostly getting back into full swing after the Covid-19 pandemic, Baylor University’s School of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS) faculty, staff and students are renewing their commitment to engage with the community. This Spring, ECS has taken opportunities to encourage, equip, and educate pre-college students in various ways. Some examples: Robotics competition at the BRIC Dr. Anne Spence, assistant chair and clinical associate professor of Mechanical Engineering, is eager to increase the diversity of the engineering student body through providing K-12 students the opportunity to explore engineering from an early age. Over the past 20 years, she has served as a volunteer with FIRST, a robotics and research program designed to inspire young people to pursue innovation. Dr. Spence served as the Maryland state leader for the FIRST Lego League. Last fall, she was approached by the local FIRST Tech Challenge committee about hosting the Waco League FTC Tournament at Baylor. Dr. Spence recognized that this was a perfect opportunity “to connect the research going on in engineering at Baylor with local high school students who are interested in engineering and technology,” she said. The tournament involved small groups of pre-college students competing in robotics through various matches and a final competition that determined the overall winner. Students built robots that they brought to the Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative (BRIC) for the competition. Most importantly, Dr. Spence said the tournament was an opportunity to “celebrate students with interests in engineering and technology just like we celebrate high school and collegiate athletics,” fulfilling the goal of the FIRST organization. She wants all young students to feel empowered to pursue engineering and is eager to equip them for success through programs like FIRST. GEARing UP in the ECE Labs Dr. Vincent Leung, associate professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE), is committed to creating opportunities for exposing young students to higher education STEM opportunities. He recently facilitated BRIC field trips for students from Moody High School and Rapport Academy through a partnership with GEAR UP, a U.S. Department of Education program designed to help young students with “Getting Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs.” Groups of ninth and tenth grade students aspiring to study engineering were able to experience the Baylor ECS environment. The students took a tour of the BRIC facility, heard the perspectives of Baylor engineering students, and learned about several professors’ research projects. Dr. Emmanuel Agamloh, associate professor of Electrical Engineering, told Moody High School students about high performance electric motors. The Rapport Academy students heard from Dr. Scott Koziol, assistant chair and associate professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, about his research on autonomous mobile robots. Dr. Leung said he is grateful to the dozen Baylor representatives who helped to make these visits happen. Visiting schools Elementary school students may not fully understand a complex motor or autonomous robots, but they are eager to learn how the world works. In April, ECS faculty, staff and a dozen students volunteered at Midway ISD’s South Bosque Elementary School’s STEAM Night with kindergarten through fourth grade students, facilitating fun, interactive stations including paper circuits, makey makey kits and a fruit piano. Emily Sandvall, senior director of undergraduate programs, and Dr. Koziol were two ECS leaders who participated. “Students and families commented on how much they loved interacting with and learning from our students,” Sandvall said. “Everyone had a blast.” Up I-35 in DFW, Steven Potter, a lecturer in Electrical and Computer Engineering, made a presentation to gifted middle school students during Engineer Week at Jerry Knight STEM Academy in Mansfield. Students enjoyed seeing the connection between computers, electrical, and mechanical components. Potter used components from his Embedded Systems Design course to create a simple experiment to display how a transistor can be used to combine the “brains” of a microcontroller with the brawn of a 12V computer fan power supply. “The microcontroller read temperature data from a digital temperature sensor and turned on a computer fan if the temperature exceeded a certain threshold, then turned the fan back off once the temperature dropped below the threshold,” Potter said. Although many of these young people are years away from high school graduation, for some, glimpses into engineering and life at Baylor ECS only help students to make more informed decisions about their future fields of study. ABOUT THE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND COMPUTER SCIENCE Baylor University's School of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS) prepares its students to be innovators for worldwide impact by training graduates for professional practice and responsible leadership with a Christian view. Students can choose from majors, including computer science, electrical and computer engineering, general engineering, informatics, and mechanical engineering. ECS also offers graduate programs in all areas of study within the school. We stand out from the crowd through Christian commitment, a strong community, expert accessibility, leading practical experience and teamwork. Visit Baylor.edu/ECS to learn more. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked Research 1 institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 20,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Are you looking for more News? All NewsArchives About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Engineering & Computer Science One Bear Place #97356 Waco, TX 76798-7356 Computer Science One Bear Place #97141 Waco, TX 76798-7141 (254) 710-3890 ECS_Student_Services@baylor.edu Apply Give Questions for Undergraduate Programs Questions for Graduate Programs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Academic Advising Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Research Computer Science About Us Degree Programs Research Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us Programs Research Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us Programs Research Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us Programs Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise