Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Home » About UC » Right To Know Right to Know The University of Cincinnati is required by federal legislation to publish and disseminate certain information annually. This site presents facts about retention and graduation rates, the Drug-Free Campus, safety and security information, and more. At UC, we are committed to building community among our students, faculty, and staff. It is important that we understand the values and beliefs we all share as these define us as one community. We ask for your assistance in creating a just and fair campus community, and not one that is separated by varying identities. The university is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Organizations which accredit programs within the university can be accessed by visiting our accrediation page. Campus Safety Report right arrow down arrow The University of Cincinnati's Department of Public Safety prepares an Annual Security Report and Fire Safety Report in accordance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act). 2020 Annual Security Report & Fire Safety Report Drug Free Campus right arrow down arrow In compliance with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 and the Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act of 1989, the University of Cincinnati maintains a drug-free campus for all university employees and students and prohibs the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of illicit drugs or alcohol on its campuses or as a part of any university activity. Drug Free Schools & Campuses Act Alcohol Policy It is the goal of the University of Cincinnati to maintain an on-campus environment that is conducive to intellectual, emotional, and social growth of all members of its community. The University of Cincinnati has established the following policy governing the possession, sale, and consumption of alcohol on its campuses. It is the university’s intention through these policies to be clear about university consequences attributed to irresponsible or illegal usage of alcohol on campus. University of Cincinnati Alcohol Policy Student Outcomes right arrow down arrow The University of Cincinnati is committed to providing access to information that will allow consumers to make informed descisions about post-secondary education. Our Office of Institutional Research provides ready accesible information through its facts and dashboards regarding: Graduation Rates Retention Rates Graduation Rates by Financial Aid Received Graduation/Completion Rates for Student Athletes Post-Graduation Outcomes Licensure Exam Passing Rates Conflict Resolution right arrow down arrow The University of Cincinnati is committed to providing a fair and respectful campus environment. Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to resolve complaints or conflicts with the appropriate person or persons involved. To work towards resolution, please first speak with your instructor, co-worker, unit head or college dean. If you have talked to and met with the appropriate personnel and have not been able to reach a resolution, the university provides several options for filing complaints or grievances, depending upon the context of the situation and persons involved. Channels for filing complaints and grievances include the following: Academic Office of the University Ombuds Office of the Bursar (tuition refund) Student Conduct (includes academic colleges) Student Financial Aid University Bursar Non-Academic Bias Incident Response Team Distance Learning Ethics Point Hotline (anonymous complaint) Human Resources Office of Equal Opportunity & Access Title IX UC Public Safety Students who are concerned about something on campus can use our General Incident Reporting Form. Students as well as faculty, staff and members of the public have the option to file formal complaints against the University of Cincinnati through the Higher Learning Commission. In addition, complaints may be submitted to the Ohio Department of Higher Education. The University of Cincinnati is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Conflicts or complaints not resolved at the college level may be elevated, as appropriate, to: Gigi Escoe Vice Provost for Undergraduate Studies; Dean of the Division of Experience-Based Learning and Career Education 513-556-9193 Gisela.Escoe@uc.edu Raj Mehta Vice Provost for International Affairs, Director of UC Honors ; Interim Vice Provost for Graduate Studies, Dean of The Graduate School 513-556-6252 Raj.Mehta@uc.edu Resources right arrow down arrow Accessibility Resources Billing Process & Refunds Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act: Biennial Review, Annual Notification Employee Assistance Program Financial Aid Information for Transfer Students Public Records Records Privacy & the Right to Review Return of Federal (Title IV) Financial Aid Student Code of Conduct Study Abroad University Rules Withdrawal Procedures University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top