Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Graduate School Future Students Current Students Degrees News & Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Current Students Academics Tuition+Fees Financial Aid + Funding Get Involved Graduation Key Campus Resources External Resources Take Action Apply Now! Degree Programs Calendar Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Graduate School Current Students Graduate School Awards and Fellowships Awards and Fellowships 2022 Fellowship Information for Incoming Graduate Students 2022 Fellowship Information for Currently Enrolled Students Students must be nominated by their departments or colleges and enrolled in classes Fall 2022 for the following awards listed below. Department/colleges should use the Nomination Form to verify that all required documentation is included (see the Documentation Table). Van Vleet Memorial Doctoral Award: Incoming doctoral students in the designated science fields of School of Communication Sciences and Disorders, Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Geological Sciences, Mathematical Sciences, Microbiology and Molecular Cell Sciences, Psychology, Biomedical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Public Health, Nursing and Applied Physics are eligible for this award and must be nominated by their respective department chair. The $16,000 stipend plus tuition scholarship is renewable for four years. will not be available for next fall. The deadline for nominations to be submitted to the Dean of Graduate School is February 15, 2022. Morton Thesis/Dissertation Awards are a result of a generous donation by S. Morgan Morton ('63). The awards honor an outstanding master's and doctoral student whose thesis or dissertation prospectus has been approved by their committee. The thesis award is $500 and the dissertation award is $750. Department Chairs should submit nominations to their College Dean by February 11, 2022. College Deans should nominate students to the Graduate School by March 15, 2022. Graduate Assistant Meritorious Teaching Awards are given to two outstanding teaching assistants. Candidates are nominated by faculty, students, alumni, or their respective college dean. The deadline for nominations to be submitted to the Graduate School is March 15, 2022. Each college will have its own internal selection process prior to the March 13th deadline. The award recipients each receive $500. Part-time Master's Fellowships are awarded to entering students. The $1500 award ($750 per semester) does not include a tuition scholarship. Students must be fully admitted to a graduate degree program by April 1, 2022. The deadline for the academic year 2021-2022 is May 13, 2022. Students may apply directly to the Graduate School for the following fellowships, using the Self-Application Form and verifying that all required documentation is included (see the Documentation Table). The University of Memphis Society, Inc. Doctoral Fellowship, established by UMS, Inc., is awarded annually to a full-time doctoral student based on exceptional academic achievement. The amount varies from year to year. The application deadline is March 15, 2022. The First Generation Fellowship is to provide financial assistance to graduate students who are under-represented in their respective disciplines and who will become the first person in their immediate families to earn a doctoral degree. The deadline is March 25, 2022. The following two awards, although funded by the Graduate School, are chosen through the College of Communication and Fine Arts and are open only to students in that College. Creative Achievement Awards (up to $500) are given to graduate students from the College of Communication and Fine Arts for outstanding work in the performing arts, film and architecture. Department chairs should submit nominations to the CCFA Associate Dean for Graduate Studies (consult associate dean for deadline). Nominations are due to the Graduate School. Art Purchase Award (up to $1000) covers the price of an art work chosen by the outside juror at the Annual Juried Student Exhibit each Spring. Additional Fellowship Information Applications for the following fellowships should be submitted to the unit listed below: The Fogelman College of Business and Economics The Dr. Kenneth R. Austin and Janet Austin Graduate Fellowship in the amount of $1,000 is awarded annually to a graduate student enrolled in the Master of Science with concentration in Accounting program. The fellowship is based on grade point average, GMAT score, and interpersonal and communication skills. The Dr. Gabrial P. Racz Leadership Fellowship in the amount of $150 is awarded each semester to a full-time graduate student majoring in accounting. The recipient must exhibit outstanding leadership skills. The Robert B. Sweeney Graduate Fellowship in the amount of $1,000 is awarded annually to a master's student majoring in accounting. The recipient must have an undergraduate degree in accounting, and must have an undergraduate GPA of at least 3.50 or a GMAT score of at least 600. The College of Education The Dr. R. Eugene Smith Fellowship equivalent to in-state tuition is awarded annually to a graduate student pursuing studies in higher education administration. The Herff College of Engineering The Herff Engineering Fellowship is a $10,000, three-year, renewable award for graduate students in Engineering. The Herff Engineering Doctoral Fellowship is a $15,000 per year, three-year award for graduate students in Engineering pursuing a Ph.D. degree in which the research emphasis is in an area related to Biomedical Engineering. The School of Communication Sciences and Disorders The CSD Alumni Chapter Fellowship is awarded each spring semester to a graduate student in Communication Sciences and Disorders. The recipient must demonstrate outstanding clinical skills and support of student and departmental activities. The Marion G. Evans/Exchange Club of East Memphis Fellowship is awarded annually to a graduate student training to work with the hard of hearing. The University of Memphis Association of Retirees The University of Memphis Association of Retirees (UMAR) awards a scholarship to a currently enrolled (full or part time) graduate student at the university. The scholarship is a one time award in the amount of $1000 for the academic year 2020-21 and is not renewable for the following year. In addition to being a graduate student (full or part time) at the University of Memphis, applicants must provide at least one letter of recommendation, provide a statement (not to exceed 100 words) as to how this scholarship will benefit his/her professional goals and may be interviewed by the scholarship selection committee. Preference will be given to students who are current university employees as well as sons/daughters of current employees or of members of UMAR. To apply for this scholarship enter go to the Tiger Scholarship page, you may need to sign in by clicking on the Sign In button in the top right corner, and then clicking on the Sign In With Your Institution button. If you have any questions regarding applying for the scholarship, please contact Robert Boone, UMAR Scholarship Coordinator, pboone@memphis.edu. For questions or assistance with the online application process, please contact the University Scholarship Office, 107 Wilder Tower, telephone 901.678.3213. Dorothy Arata Academic Award - This award is given in memory of Dr. Dorothy Arata, Dean of the Graduate School at the University of Memphis from 1982 to 1993. Dr. Arata earned her Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin in 1956. Her research was in biomedical issues related to liver health and mineral deficiencies in the body. Before coming to the University of Memphis, she was a professor of biochemistry at the Michigan State University. Please contact UMAR for more information regarding this award. Federal Financial Aid Loans are available to degree-seeking graduate students through Federal Financial Aid. Additional information may be obtained in the Student Financial Aid Office by calling 901.678.4825; in person at Wilder Tower, Room 103; or on-line at www.memphis.edu/financialaid. Grant and other Funding Opportunities: Pre-doctoral grants to fund research towards a doctorate and even fellowships to support doctoral research are available at https://libguides.memphis.edu/graduate/grants. Types of Loans Handled by the Student Financial Aid Office: Federal Unsubsidized Stafford Loan - variable rate of interest (adjusts once a year on July 1st), not to exceed 8.25%. Loans are processed through the university. Unsubsidized Stafford Loan - not based on financial need, annual limit is the lessor of your total cost, minus other aid (graduate assistantships and/or fee waivers, borrower is responsible for interest while in school, during grace period, and repayment. NOTE: The unsubsidized Stafford Loans cannot exceed the annual limit of $20,500.00 depending on the university's cost of attendance and other assistance already received or expected for the year. Alternative Loans - variable interest rate, not federally funded, private agencies, usually perform credit check. Applying for Financial Aid: For priority award consideration for Fall 2020 apply by March 1, 2020. Applications or renewal for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) can be completed on-line at www.fafsa.ed.gov. If you are selected for verification, you will need to provide your 2019 tax return and verification documents. External Sources of Financial Assistance Financial assistance opportunities are also available through sources external to The University of Memphis. Information regarding these opportunities can be found in the Reference Section of the library or on the Internet. The Southern Regional Education Board (SREB) offers a Doctoral Scholars Program to encourage ethnic minority students to pursue doctoral degrees and become college-level teachers. For information contact the Graduate School or contact: Doctoral Scholars Program Southern Regional Education Board 592 Tenth St. NW Atlanta, GA 30318-5790 (404) 875-9211 The Council of Graduate Schools, which The University of Memphis is a member, also has information available regarding fellowships and financial aid. Graduate Fellowship Programs in Natural Sciences NSF graduate research fellowship program, solicitation, program website, including successful applications from a UofM student and alumnus, deadlines range from October 26-30 depending on discipline. National Defense Science & Engineering Graduate Fellowship (NDSEG): NDSEG website, the application cycle is from September to January. Science, Mathematics & Research for Transformation (SMART): SMART website, deadline December 2020, this program has a post-graduation service requirement. NIH National Research Service Awards (F series fellowships): F Series Fellowships website, Deadlines the 8th of April, August, and December. NASA Fellowships: NASA NIFS OSSI website Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.