Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Krispy Kreme Challenge Five miles. Twelve doughnuts. One hour. Discover the daring delight that’s become one of Raleigh’s fastest-growing traditions. Trailglazers Each year, runners brave the brisk winter weather to embark on a quest of guts, glory and glaze: the Krispy Kreme Challenge. The student-run event dares participants to dash two and a half miles from the Belltower to the nearest Krispy Kreme, eat 12 doughnuts and then — with stomachs bursting — finish with another two-and-a-half-mile run back to their starting point. All in one hour. What began as a weekend lark among Park Scholars has grown into a nationally recognized race, drawing in thousands of participants — and earning a spot on every NC State student’s bucket list. Your Challenge Awaits Join thousands of students, volunteers and runners — and experience one of NC State’s sweetest traditions. Get involved I couldn’t be prouder to say that this was my stupid idea. Chris Arbonies B.A. psychology, 2007 The Park Scholar connection Stop Video A Reason To Run This isn’t just a show of gastrointestinal fortitude. The Krispy Kreme Challenge is an NC State tradition rooted in one of our most cherished values: philanthropy. Since its inception in 2004, the challenge has raised more than $2 million for the University of North Carolina Children’s Hospital, making this event the hospital’s largest unrestricted donor. Check out some sugary stats racked up over 18 years of the Krispy Kreme Challenge: 1,088,870+ Doughnuts Consumed Get our best speed-eating tips 91,123 Runners Participated See snapshots from past races $2M Raised See the impact 455,615 Miles Run Play Video Bellyaches, banana suits and more baked goods than we could count. Get the rundown on the 2020 Krispy Kreme Challenge from NC State student AnnE Ford. Join The Pack See Yourself Here We’re a university like no other. Discover what you’ll think and do with us. Apply to NC State Ready to run with the Wolfpack? Browse degree paths and deadlines. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.