Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Our Work Resources News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Resources Current Students Future Students Take Action Undergraduates Join the Graduate Program Support the Department Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home Department of Anthropology Graduate Majors Medical Anthropology Concentration in Applied Medical Anthropology The subfield of Medical Anthropology brings together scholars and practitioners trained in cultural, biological and linguistic anthropology to investigate the development and distribution of health and illness within populations, alternative frameworks for defining and explaining health states, the experience of illness, and disease prevention and treatment systems. Medical anthropologists employ a range of scientific and humanistic approaches, investigating such issues as: individual and collective constructions of health and illness; health disparities; prevention initiatives; medical care; and caregiving in global perspective. Medical anthropologists favor a holistic orientation, working to understand the dynamics of health and illness within the context of larger social, ecological and political economic processes. Faculty members in this concentration share a broad interest in applying anthropological theory and methods to work toward health equity. Their specific teaching and research foci include: racial, gender, and economic health inequalities; alcohol and drug abuse; reproductive and maternal-child health; labor issues and occupational health; migration; stress; mental health; human biology and adaptation; nutrition and food access; and aging. Students in this concentration have completed practica with hospitals and clinics, non-profit and grassroots agencies, and both governmental and non-governmental organizations. Students in the Medical Anthropology concentration may also wish to take advantage of our three-year integrated MA/MPH program. For more information on medical anthropology visit http://www.medanthro.net/ Core Courses: This information is current under the 2019 - 2019 catalog. For older catalogs, see https://catalog.memphis.edu. A total of 30 semester hours course-work plus satisfactory performance in a practicum (ANTH 7985—6 hours credit) and a practicum proseminar (ANTH 7984—1 hour credit) for a total of 36 semester hours. Satisfactory completion of the core curriculum (14 hours). ANTH 7075 Methods In Anthropology ANTH 7076 Anthropological Analysis and Writing ANTH 7200 Roots of Anthropological Theory ANTH 7255 Applying Anthropology For students in the Medical Anthropology concentration, satisfactory completion of concentration-specific requirements (6 hours). ANTH 7521-8521 - Biocultural Epidemiology ANTH 7511 - Critically Applied Medical Anthropology At least 70% of the program (i.e. 26 hours) must be taken at the 7000 level. Satisfactory performance on a comprehensive exam. The Master’s Degree in Anthropology is an interdisciplinary degree and students are encouraged to take up to 9 semester hours of their work outside of the Department of Anthropology, depending upon their area of interest and the nature of previous work experience. Relevance to concentrations is incorporated into each course, and students are encouraged to focus their practical exercises within their own areas of interest in their chosen applied field. In addition to the common core courses, medical anthropology students must also take these two concentration-specific courses: Elective Courses (select examples): Human Adaptations (ANTH 6111) Psychological Anthropology (ANTH 6251) Health, Culture, and Environmental Justice (ANTH 6510) Complementary and Alternative Medicine (ANTH 6512) Alcohol, Drugs, and Culture (ANTH 6531) Nutritional Anthropology (ANTH 6541) Culture, Sex, and Childbirth (ANTH 6551) Race and Health Disparities (ANTH 6571) Culture, Society, and Mental Health (ANTH 6595) Seminar in Biocultural Anthropology (ANTH 7100-8100) Community, Culture, and Program Evaluation (ANTH 7250) Special Topics in Medical Anthropology (ANTH 7590-99) In addition, students may take Directed Readings, Research, or Writing courses, and/or collateral classes from related departments such as the School of Public Health. Students should construct a course of study in consultation with their faculty advisor. All Masters candidates must complete a practicum. The practicum is designed to provide hands-on experience in the student's area of interest. This allows the student to gain practical experience and make contacts in a variety of organizations and agencies and can lead to gainful employment. For a complete description of information on requirements, admission, and courses offered, see: Degree Program, Requirements, and Course Descriptions. Faculty: Current faculty members who deal with health issues include: Dr. Kathryn Hicks and Dr. Will Robertson. In addition, many alumni, community partners, and other practicing anthropologists live in the Memphis area and contribute to our program. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/21/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.