Skip to main content Skip to main content Follow Us Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Skip to main content Log In Log In Student Login Log In Instructor Login Log In Canvas Login Canvas Login My Profile My Applications My Enrollment History My Certificate Plan My Account My Saved Items Log Off Contact Us Contact Us Help Help <span class="sr-only">Number of items in the shopping cart: </span><span id="cartCount"></span> Number of items in the shopping cart: Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Program Search Programs and Courses Areas of Study Career Building College Prep Communications & Marketing Creative Development Design & UX Engineering & Technology Humanities & Fine Arts Languages Legal & Finance Management & Leadership Program Types Certificate Programs Short Courses Corporate Programs & Customized Learning Instructors Resources for Current Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for CAPE Instructors Become a CAPE Instructor Propose a Course Help Center New Students Payment Options & Financing Veterans Benefits FAQ Current Students Student Portal Canvas Zoom Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for Instructors Policies & Procedures Parking & Maps About About Us Contact Us Blog Navigate Search Skip to main content CAPE Program Search All Programs & Courses All Programs & Courses Areas of Study Certificate Programs SMU College Prep Customized Learning Short Courses Areas of Study Areas of Study Career Building Communications and Marketing Creative Development Design and UX Engineering and Technology Humanities and Fine Arts Languages Legal and Finance Management and Leadership Courses Instructors Instructors Propose a Course Help Center Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom About SMU CAPE About SMU CAPE Contact Us ☰ CAPE Help Center Payment Options and Financing Payment Options and Financing Loans Students may qualify for a Smart Options Student Loan, offered by Sallie Mae, for selected non-credit certificate programs. Apply early. Loan applications must be completed and approved no less than 14 days before the first day of class. Select "Southern Methodist Continuing Education - Non-Credit" on your application. The fine print. Loan cannot exceed the cost of tuition and does not cover textbooks, materials, or other expenses. Get help. Contact our admissions team at smupro@smu.edu for details. Payment Plans SMU CAPE offers a flexible payment plan for selected programs, so that you don’t have pay in full at the time of registration. Get started. Select the “Payment Plan” option on the program application questionnaire. Apply early. Payment plan requests must be submitted and approved no less than 14 days before the first day of class. The fine print. Upon payment plan approval, you will owe $1000 plus an $80 processing fee. Your remaining tuition balance will be split into four to six equal monthly payments with 0% interest, starting the month in which class begins. Get help. Contact our admissions team at smupro@smu.edu for details and to confirm if your program qualifies for payment plans. Veterans Benefits Current or former service members, or military dependents, may be eligible to use VA education benefits to pay program costs. For more information, please visit our Veterans Benefits page or contact Robert Hurst, SMU Veterans Assistance Coordinator, at 214-768-1104. Employer Educational Assistance Some employers may cover all or part of the cost of a continuing professional education program. Check with your boss or human resources department to find out if this benefit is available. Discounts Pony up! As a member of the SMU community, you may be eligible for tuition discounts exclusively for alumni, faculty, staff and students. Nonprofit organizations and corporate groups also may receive discounted tuition. Please contact our admissions team at smupro@smu.edu for more information. Need Help? 214-768-2273 smuthink@smu.edu Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University 5539 SMU Blvd, Dallas, TX 75206 instagram twitter linkedin facebook