Skip to content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Department of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering Menu Toggle Search ABE Directory ABE Openings Give to ABE About About the Department Accreditation Administration Biorenewables Complex Department Overview Mission and Vision Diversity and Inclusion More Resources Alumni External Advisory Council Facility Safety Forms ABE Code of Classroom Conduct Contact Department of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering 1340 Elings Hall 605 Bissell Road Ames, IA 50011-3270 abe@iastate.edu 515-294-1434 phone Directory Future Students Future Undergraduate Students Why Choose ABE? Engineering or Technology? Scholarships & Financial Aid Future Graduate Students Graduate Degree Programs Admissions Requirements Application Process Graduate Financial Aid More Resources Concurrent Degree Programs Learning Communities Life at Iowa State Transfer Guides Student Organizations Current Students Undergraduate Student Resources Advising and Student Services Learning Communities Scholarships Student Resources Study Abroad Tutoring Graduate Student Resources Graduate Degree Programs Degree Requirements Financial Aid Student Resources More Resources Advice from Alumni Careers Certificate in Occupational Safety Facility Safety Internships Faculty & Staff Faculty Faculty Directory College and University Resources Staff Staff Directory College and University Resources More Resources Facility Safety Forms Organizational Chart Research Research Focus Areas Advanced Machinery Engineering and Manufacturing Systems Animal Production Systems Engineering Biological and Process Engineering and Technology Occupational Safety Engineering Land and Water Resources Engineering Research Infrastructure Facilities and Laboratories Faculty by Research Focus Area Projects and Publications More Resources ABE Digital Repository Engineering Research Institute (ERI) Extension & Outreach Department Resources Need Help? Get the Facts Global Resources Global Impacts Partnerships Research Students More Resources ISU Extension and Outreach Midwest Plan Service Home Extension and Outreach Agricultural Health & Safety Agricultural Health & Safety Welcome to the Iowa State University Extension’s Safe Farm home page. From here you will find information about: NEW: National Farm Safety and Health Week 2017 Farm Safety Day Camps, Look here to find more about farm safety day camps scheduled in Iowa and the nation. You’ll see a list of county extension offices participating in a day camp this year, who to contact, and the date and location of the camp. Tractor and Machinery Certification, Youths aged 14 to 16 years must be certified to operate farm machinery other than for their parents. ISU Extension hosts certification classes from time to time. See if one is scheduled in your area. Tractor and Machinery Virtual Classroom The tractor and machinery virtual classroom is a web-based curriculum designed to enhance and supplement traditional tractor and machinery certification programs by overcoming some of the barriers in traditional delivery methods. Safety Training Instruction and Research Center A national resource for environmental, safety, and health information. Providing training; outreach and education; and encouraging continual process and human performance improvement in the workplace. Evaluation of Occupational Carrying Tasks for Farm Youth This three year project supported by Cooperative Agreement Number RO1-OH04192 from Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) will investigate potential risk factors for farm children performing occupational carrying tasks to make recommendations regarding the loading (unilateral vs. bilateral) and the container size used for performing these tasks. Farm Safety Publications A list of Safe Farm publications, an ISU series on one-page fact sheets that each have a quiz, explanation of a common farm hazard and tips on how to be safe. To see a printable version, click here. To see a text-only version that is fully searchable, go to this page. Farm Safety Displays See several farm safety displays and demonstrations available from county or area extension offices. You will find a short description of each display and how to reserve it. Farm & Ranch eXtension in Safety & Health (FReSH) Answers to farm safety and health questions, case studies, and a calendar of safety events are available at FReSH. eXtension is an educational partnership of 74 universities that provide on-line access to objective research-based information and education. The Iowa Farm Safety Council Find out more about this not-for-profit organization whose members include farm operators, industry leaders, insurance and health care providers, and safety educators. News Two ABE Grad Students Receive Outstanding Degree Awards Four Seniors in ABE Design, Assemble and Install Machine in Poultry Farm for Safety and Efficiency ABE Alum Ellen Franzenburg Brings Engineering Background to Communications Career Department of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering 1340 Elings Hall 605 Bissell Road Ames, IA 50011-3270 abe@iastate.edu 515-294-1434 phone Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information Loading...