Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home About This Site About This Site The University of Texas at Austin launched the current version of its website in April 2015. The website redesign project, a collaboration between University Communications and Information Technology Services, reflects recommendations made by the Mobile Strategy Task Force to improve and update the digital presence of UT Austin. The 2015 redesign represents a substantial change in both appearance and approach for the university's main website. It accomplishes more by doing less. The last thing we want is to create additional obstacles between our users and the information they are looking for — which, in most cases, already exists in more helpful detail on one of the university's many subsites. Starting with the needs of our audience and data collected from across the university, we carefully vetted content, reducing copy to that which our users find most useful and interesting, and linking to the rest. What resulted is a website that is more streamlined and focused, helping provide a simpler path to navigating a university that, when you consider the countless number of available resources and opportunities, can be quite complex. It is designed for access and inclusion. This site will be used on an array of devices, in a wide range of environments and for a variety of practical purposes, serving a diverse community of users with very different needs. While our desire for updated, modern aesthetics was on its own an important aspect that shaped the direction of our design, ensuring that we met the highest standards for usability was continually the top factor driving design decisions. From the color palette and menu structure to the way each responsive page element rearranges and adjusts based on the size of your browser, this design aims to achieve a harmonious balance between beauty and function for all users. It is just the first step. The UT Austin website is intended to appeal primarily to potential newcomers to the Forty Acres — prospective students, faculty, staff or donors. But its redesign marks a major step forward in the efforts to improve the digital experience for the entirety of the UT Austin community. As we develop additional digital solutions, focused more fully on the needs of UT Austin's many other online audiences, we intend for this site's successes and failures to inform our work and the work of digital professionals throughout the university. We welcome your comments and feedback. Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022