Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Student Affairs> Student Health Services> Student Health Insurance Plan - Version 2 Student Health Insurance Plan Version 2 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Current Version Compare 2 Versions Policy REG11.40.02 Title Student Health Insurance Plan Category Student Affairs Sub-category Student Health Services Authority Chancellor History First adopted for the 2010 Fall Semester; revised August 2012; revised April 2014; revised June 29, 2018. Contact Director of Student Health Services (252) 328-6841 Related Policies Additional References Student Health Insurance 1. Introduction 1.1. In conformance with the decision by UNC System to implement student health insurance requirements, most students are required to have health insurance while in attendance at East Carolina University (“University”). Specifically, the University requires undergraduate students who are enrolled in six or more on-campus credit hours, are degree seeking and are eligible to pay a health fee, and graduate students who are enrolled in three or more on-campus credit hours, are degree seeking and are eligible to pay the health fee, to have “creditable health insurance coverage,” as that term is defined under federal law. 2. Insurance Requirement 2.1. In order to meet this requirement, students can either be enrolled in their parents’/guardians’ comparable health insurance plan (if under 26 years of age) or some other comparable credible health insurance plan. Students not completing a waiver or those whose waiver was denied will be default enrolled in the Student Health Insurance Plan offered to University students (“Student Health Plan”). 3. Insurance Hard Waiver Requirement 3.1 All students required to have health insurance will be default enrolled in the Student Health Plan and their accounts will be charged for the Student Health Plan coverage unless, within the timeline stated below, they complete and submit a waiver form establishing that they are covered under a comparable credible plan that complies with the requirements of this regulation. The waiver form is accessible and can be submitted online through the Pirate Port system, which is accessible from the University website. Students must be registered for classes before they can submit a waiver.Students requiring assistance in accessing, completing or submitting the waiver form may contact Student Health Services. 3.1.1. Students must timely submit a waiver for each fall and spring semester, or they will be default enrolled in the Student Health Plan for that semester, and the corresponding charge will be placed on their student account. 3.1.2.The last day for students to apply for a waiver is September 10th for the fall semester and January 31st for the spring semester. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier