Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information Keep Harvard Healthy COVID-19 Vaccine & Booster Information Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Campus-wide vaccination and boosters are the best defense against severe illness from COVID-19, and are critical components of the University’s multi-layered health and safety measures. These measures will help protect our community and enable us to return to as much in-person learning, research, and activity as possible, including optional masking in all indoor and outdoor Harvard spaces on campus, with few exceptions. Below, you’ll find information on: Harvard’s vaccination rate Harvard’s vaccine and booster requirement Resources for planning and scheduling your vaccine and booster What to do once you’ve received your vaccine and booster Harvard University vaccination rates Vaccination rates are based on the number of undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, staff, and researchers. Data as of January 13, 2022. We will continue to update the vaccination rates as needed. 97% of Employees Vaccinated 98% of Students Vaccinated Vaccine & booster requirements The University is requiring COVID-19 vaccinations for all Harvard community members and one COVID-19 booster for all eligible community members. This includes students, faculty, staff, and researchers. Vaccines and boosters must be FDA- or WHO-authorized. If you’re unable to access an FDA- or WHO-authorized vaccine, the University will offer vaccination with an mRNA vaccine to all Harvard affiliates with a Harvard ID. Booster deadline The deadline to verify that you have received a COVID-19 booster is 30 days after you become eligible to receive the dose. Schedule your booster Those without a booster shot will not be barred from entering campus, but will, however, be expected to arrange an appointment for their booster as soon as possible. If you received your primary vaccine series outside the United States, you should seek a first booster dose with any WHO-approved vaccine that is available to you (mixing of brands is acceptable). HUHS is hosting booster clinics in the coming weeks. See the scheduling options. Verify your booster See the step-by-step guidance to verify your booster through the HUHS Patient Portal. Beginning February 11, the registrar will place an immunization holds on the accounts of students who are eligible for a booster but have not submitted proof of vaccination. The hold will be removed upon verifying vaccination status with HUHS. For more information, visit the HUHS immunization page. Second booster doses On March 29, the FDA approved usage of a second booster dose of either the Pfizer-BioNTech or the Moderna vaccine for individuals 50 years of age and older, and individuals 12 years of age and older with certain immunocompromising conditions. Members of the community who receive their optional second booster dose can submit proof in the HUHS portal. Exemptions If you have an approved exemption for the vaccine, you don’t need to submit additional documentation for a booster exemption. Federal vaccination mandate Consistent with federal guidance, all Harvard employees, including those who are on 100% remote work status, must be fully vaccinated unless they have an approved exemption. Employees do not have the option to opt for additional testing instead of vaccination. Plan for your vaccine and booster At Harvard HUHS is hosting Moderna and Pfizer COVID-19 booster clinics on a weekly basis. All booster clinics will take place in the Monks/Bock Conference Rooms on the 6th Floor of the Smith Campus Center from 12-3 pm. Appointments are open to all Harvard students, staff, faculty, researchers, and HUHS patients. Log in to the HUHS Patient Portal to schedule your appointment. See the HUHS COVID-19 booster clinic schedule Log in to the HUHS Patient Portal to schedule your booster appointment Visit the HUHS vaccine webpage for more information In Massachusetts If you are in Massachusetts, you can register for vaccine and booster shot appointments at state-run sites and also find information about other sites, including pharmacies, through VaxFinder. All individuals 18+ are eligible for a COVID-19 booster in Massachusetts. VaxFinder City of Cambridge COVID-19 Vaccine & Booster Information City of Boston COVID-19 Vaccine & Booster Clinics Outside Massachusetts If you are outside Massachusetts, but in the United States, you can use the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) nationwide VaccineFinder to schedule your vaccine and booster. You can also check with your state’s Department of Health. Everyone ages 18 and older in the US is eligible for a booster shot. If you are outside the USA, please check your local and national public health agency. CDC Vaccine & Booster Finder Already received the vaccine and booster? Keep your vaccination card safe and make a copy for your files. You never know when that card might be required in the future (for in-person participation in activities, international travel, etc.). Community members are advised to complete their vaccination and booster (if eligible) as soon as possible and must submit verification to HUHS. Visit the University’s Verify Your Vaccination & Booster webpage to learn how to submit your verification. Continue to practice healthy habits While face coverings are optional in all indoor spaces on Harvard’s campuses with few exceptions, people with health concerns should continue to wear masks, and everyone in the community should practice good hygiene. Steps to stay healthy On-campus testing is still required All Harvard affiliates with any on-campus presence are required to continue regular testing until their transition date to optional testing, April 28 for non-residential affiliates, and May 10 for residential affiliates. Learn more about Harvard’s testing policies Policies for fully vaccinated and boosted individuals Post-Travel Testing Quarantine is no longer required for out-of-state travel as long as you are symptom-free and receive a single, negative COVID-19 test after returning to Massachusetts. Review the policy Close Contact of a Positive Case Close contacts should review HUHS’ exposure guidance and quarantine requirements to determine their next steps. Exposure guidance and quarantine requirements Questions about Harvard’s COVID-19 vaccine and booster distribution? Visit the HUHS website for more information Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube