Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > Academics > Academic Programs > Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Admissions Tuition and Fees FAQ Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Program Director Laura Kelly, PhD, NP, PMHCNS-BC Associate Professor of Nursing at CUMC Apply Now to the Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Program Length of Program: 1 year Application Deadline: June 1, 2022 Decisions Posted: July 2022 Program Start Date: September 2022 Columbia University School of Nursing’s Certificate in Professional Achievement (CPA) in Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs is designed for advanced practice nurses and physician assistants to advance their knowledge and skills to provide quality care to trans NB people. The program prepares advanced practice nurses and physician assistants to support the health of trans NB people along the continuum of care and formulate a care plan that addresses follow-up, ongoing care, and preventative screening. The program also prepares clinicians to integrate mental health in the care of trans-people and their families. To reach the widest audience and to assist in preparing a workforce of clinicians accessible to trans NB people regardless of geographic location, the certificate program is offered completely online in a synchronous and asynchronous format. Courses Course ID Course Name Credits Description NURS7400N Health Assessment of Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Individuals 3 This course will provide instructions (and simulated practice) of health assessment procedures for transgender patients relevant to the anatomy that is present, regardless of gender presentation, and without assumptions as to anatomy or identity. Instruction in sensitive history taking will be reviewed to understand the myriad and individualized changes and characteristics in the context of hormone administration and surgical intervention. NURS7402N Mental Health Needs of Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) People 3 This course includes in-depth readings, discussions and treatment interventions for clinicians to gain knowledge in the three general areas of mental health that transgender clients often seek treatment. These three areas include: exploration of gender identity and may include preparation and assessment for various gender affirming treatments and procedures, coming out and social transitions, and general mental health issues, possibly unrelated to gender identity. Learners will analyze and discuss ethical dilemmas often faced by providers and transgender patients in the access and provision of health care. NURS7410N Clinical Practicum in Transgender Non- Binary (Trans NB) Health 2 Learners will work with practitioners who treat transgender patients. Learners will be required to complete 120 hours of supervised clinical practice working with transgender patients. The clinical placements will be identified in accordance to with nurse practitioner specialty focus. Assistance will be given in identifying appropriate clinical placement sites. NURS7411N Seminar in Transgender Non- Binary (Trans NB) Health 1 This course is a special topics course intended to run simultaneously with the clinical practicum. Guest speakers who are experts in specific health concerns and issues of transgender patients will offer current best practices. Discussions regarding the treatment of transgender patients in the learners’ practice locations will also be discussed. Legal, ethical and moral issues will be incorporated in the discussions. NURS7401N Treatment Interventions for Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Individuals 3 This course includes an overview of pubertal suppression, hormone therapy, gender affirming surgical care, sexual health and fertility, as well as writing letters of support, and care planning for surgery. Learners will analyze and discuss ethical dilemmas often faced by providers and transgender patients in the access and provision of health care. Total Credits:12 Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top