Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Academics Core Curriculum Outcomes Departments Majors & Minors Academic Calendar Registrar IT Services Faculty & Staff In-processing STUDENT ACADEMIC AFFAIRS & ACADEMY REGISTRAR SERVICES TO AID A CADET'S JOURNEY Looking for information about academic advising, requesting an official transcript or improving your study skills? The Office of Student Academic Affairs and Academy Registrar provides a variety of services to the Cadet Wing, faculty and staff. The Academy Registrar staff administers the entire curriculum, from conducting registration to certifying cadets have met all degree and majors requirements, and coordinating the graduation ceremony. The Registrar’s office is where cadets can request official Academy records, transcripts and other information. CURRICULUM Explore grading, the Air Force Academy curriculum, advising, accreditation, working groups and exchange programs. Learn more CUSTOMER SERVICES Request transcripts, replacement diplomas, enrollment verification, and background checks of current and former cadets. Cadets can update personal information and apply for transfer credit. Learn more ACADEMIC SUCCESS CENTER Discover services designed to help cadets develop skills for time management, reading, writing, and studying, as well as tips to prepare for graduate school. Learn more HOURS Student Academic Affairs and Academy Registrar Monday through Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Academic Success Center Graduate Studies, Learning Strategies and Reading Enhancement Monday through Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. QRC Quantitative Reasoning/Evening Tutoring Center (QRC) Monday through Thursday from 5:30 to 9:30 p.m. CONTACT US Student Academic Affairs and Academy Registrar 2354 Fairchild Drive, Suite 2G13 United States Air Force Academy, CO 80840 P: (719) 333-3970 | F: (719) 333-6650 dfvr.customerservice@afacademy.af.edu Academic Success Center 2354 Fairchild Drive, Suite 1A76 United States Air Force Academy, CO 80840 Explore More Graduation Academics Library ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.