Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Cyclones Care Menu Toggle Search Main navigation COVID-19: Moving Forward COVID-19 Testing Innovation at Work Vaccinations Messaging Materials Cyclones Care promotes behaviors to protect your health and the well-being of the Iowa State University community. One of the best ways to do that is to get the COVID-19 vaccine. For the 2021-22 academic year, university leaders are asking all Cyclones to take responsibility for their own health and show they care with four simple behaviors: Vaccinate Monitor your health Stay home if you’re ill Wash your hands often IOWA STATE VACCINATES Get updates and learn more about local vaccination opportunities on Iowa State's COVID-19 Vaccination website. Vaccines help prevent deadly and dangerous diseases by safely working with the body's natural defenses to provide immunity. The university is following guidance provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Iowa Department of Public Health. CDC COMMUNITY LEVELS FOR FACE MASKS The CDC has developed new COVID-19 Community Levels to help communities decide what prevention steps to take based on the latest data. The three levels – low, medium and high – are based on the number of hospital beds being used, hospital admissions and the total number of new COVID-19 cases in an area. These data act as an early warning indicator of potential increases in health system strain in the event of a COVID-19 surge. This link to the COVID-19 Community Levels allows you to check county level (Ames – Story County) and provides recommendations for masking and testing based on current level. For those in a low community level, wear a mask based on your personal preference and informed by your personal level of risk, the CDC states. People may choose to mask at any time. People should wear a mask if they have symptoms, a positive test or exposure to someone with COVID-19. Be respectful of others' choices and do not pressure anyone to wear, or not wear, a mask. Required: Face masks are required on CyRide, at Thielen Student Health Center, in areas of the College of Veterinary Medicine where face masks are normally required.  Moving Forward Vaccinations COVID-19 Testing Iowa State University Cyclones Care Office of the President Strategic Relations and Communications Contact Strategic Relations and Communications 2420 Lincoln Way, Suite 201 Ames, IA 50011 contact@iastate.edu 515-294-7958 phone Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...