Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Search BC.edu Links Philosophy Department Menu Main Nav Philosophy Department Philosophy Department Contact Back Back Close About Overview Contact News and Notes Giving People Overview Open Positions Related Links Current Doctoral Students Current MA Students BC Directory Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Core in Philosophy Courses B.A/M.A. Program Perspectives Program Perspectives on Western Culture Modernism and the Arts Horizon of the New Social Sciences New Scientific Visions Perspectives Concentration in Philosophy Perspectives FAQ Giving to Perspectives PULSE Undergraduate Philosophy Association Dianoia Philosophy Journal Pilgrimage Course Pilgrimage FAQs Graduate Overview Master's Current Master's Students 5 Year BA/MA Joint MA Philosophy-Theology Doctoral Current Doctoral Students Spotlight on Former Students Law and Philosophy Dual Degree (JD/MA or JD/PhD) Courses Applying Information for Current Students Graduate Student Activities Reader's Series Conferences and Workshops Dissertation Titles Related Links Graduate Studies Handbook Current Doctoral Students Courses Research Overview Publications Scholarly Journals and Book Series Faculty Activities Lectures and Conference Series Advanced Research Seminar in Philosophy and Theology Fitzgibbons Lecture Series Boston Area Colloquium in Ancient Philosophy The Boston Colloquium in Medieval Philosophy LaBrecque Lectures in Medical Ethics Gasson Lectures Lonergan Institute Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Philosophy Department Home Graduate Graduate Master's 5 Year BA/MA Joint MA Philosophy-Theology Doctoral Law and Philosophy Dual Degree (JD/MA or JD/PhD) Courses Applying Information for Current Students Graduate Student Activities Graduate The philosophy department offers an M.A. program, a Ph.D. program, and two interdisciplinary programs: a joint M.A. in philosophy and theology, and dual degrees in philosophy and law (M.A./J.D. and Ph.D./J.D.). A significant feature of these programs is the extensive and diverse range of courses available to graduate students every semester. They cover the history and problems of philosophy, allowing for concentration in the following areas: Ancient Philosophy, Medieval Philosophy, Modern Philosophy, Phenomenology and Contemporary Continental Philosophy, Ethics, Social and Political Philosophy, Philosophy of Law, Philosophy of Religion, Epistemology and Philosophy of Science. The department is linked to research centers such as the Lonergan Institute, and is home to several scholarly journals. Members of the department are nationally and internationally known, and are involved in cutting-edge research. Furthermore, each year the department hosts many speakers from the US and abroad (through its own lecture series, or consortiums such as the Boston Area Colloquium in Ancient Philosophy), and invites a prominent scholar to be the Gadamer Visiting Professor and teach for four to six weeks. In addition, students may take appropriate graduate level courses in other departments of Boston College (e.g., Political Science, Theology), and may avail themselves of Boston’s wider intellectual offerings thanks to Boston College’s participation in the Boston Area Consortium, which allows them to cross register for one course per semester at Boston University, Tufts University or Brandeis University. By application, they also can participate in The Graduate Consortium in Women's Studies and in the Boston Theological Institute. Boston College is a suburban campus located on the western edge of the city of Boston. Several colleges and universities, including Boston University, MIT and Harvard University, are easily within reach by public transportation. The exchange of ideas between faculty and students of Boston area colleges and universities is rich and diverse. For specific questions about the Philosophy department's graduate programs please contact the graduate program assistant, Sarah Dustin Smith (dustins@bc.edu). All other requests on the application process should be made to the Graduate School at the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences. 100% The policy of the department is to offer students admitted to the doctoral program full funding each year. Learn More Apply Request Information Contact Us Contact Us Director of Graduate Studies Richard Atkins atkinsri@bc.edu Placement Officer Marina McCoy Stokes N355 617-552-3858 marina.mccoy@bc.edu M.A. Coordinator Greg Fried Stokes N243 617-552-4894 gregory.fried@bc.edu Teaching Seminar Coordinator (2019-2020) Eileen Sweeney 617-552-3857 eileen.sweeney@bc.edu Stokes N221 Administrative and Graduate Program Assistant Sarah Smith Stokes N220A Phone: 617-552-3847 Fax: 617-552-3874 dustins@bc.edu Learning Outcomes Graduate Programs Joint M.A. in Philosophy & Theology Students in the course of the M.A. and Ph.D. programs in philosophy will demonstrate a wide-ranging and sophisticated grasp of the history of Western philosophy (ancient, medieval, modern, and contemporary), i.e., be able to convey information about individual authors and texts, to state connections between the principal authors and texts, but also to explain how individual texts and authors fit into the overall movement of Western philosophy; ability to articulate a narrative of that tradition; in the case of M.A. students and of Ph.D. students completing their first year in the program, ability to converse knowledgeably about the history of Western philosophy as well as about two of the major systematic areas in philosophy (metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, natural theology / philosophy of religion, social / political philosophy). demonstrate a sophisticated reading and interpretation of philosophical texts, i.e., to identify the main thesis of a text, to explain the thesis, to outline in detail the principal arguments in support of the thesis, and to identify the main presuppositions underlying the text; to contextualize philosophical texts and issues in a fairly sophisticated way, i.e., to locate them in their appropriate historical contexts, to show awareness of the historical background of philosophical issues, and to show alertness to the differences between philosophical genres. demonstrate a sophisticated understanding and evaluation of philosophical arguments, i.e., to distinguish premises and conclusions, to distinguish issues of logical validity from issues concerning the truth or falsity of premises, to pick out and explain ambiguous terms, to identify presuppositions, and to highlight the most salient strengths or weaknesses of an argument. demonstrate a sophisticated ability to write about philosophical texts and issues, i.e., to state a philosophical thesis, to explain the thesis, to construct an argument or arguments in support of the thesis, to respond to possible misunderstandings of or objections to the thesis as well as to alternative interpretations of the texts and alternative positions on the issues. demonstrate the ability to survey and to select secondary literature that is appropriate to their work, and to make fair and effective use of this secondary literature. demonstrate a sophisticated ability to distinguish philosophical claims from other types of claims, i.e., to recognize and articulate the differences between philosophical claims and, for example, historical and natural-scientific claims when presented with these different types of claims; to be able to explain texts in which claims of different sorts are not only found side by side but are even confused. demonstrate a fairly sophisticated understanding of such philosophical issues as the nature and scope of human knowledge, the meaning of human personhood, the good life and moral obligation, the social and political dimensions of human existence, the relationship of faith and reason, and the existence and nature of God. This fairly sophisticated understanding would involve being able to state what the main questions are in most if not all of these areas, what the main answers to these questions are, what the principal sources of evidence are to which those answers appeal; to stake out a reasoned position on at least some of these questions; and to show an appreciation of what they do and do not know about these various issues. in the case of Ph.D. students, demonstrate the ability to communicate clearly and effectively about the philosophical texts and issues mentioned above. Students in the Joint MA in Philosophy and Theology are expected to: Demonstrate a working understanding of the fundamental texts, voices, conversations, and debates that have shaped the history of philosophy and theology in the Western tradition (ancient, medieval, modern, and contemporary); Appreciate and systematically engage the historical and ongoing interaction between philosophy and theology in the Western tradition, particularly as it concerns questions of God, reason, revelation, faith, language, doctrine, culture, and human experience; Appreciate and constructively engage the various genres, methods, styles, aims, and historical contexts of philosophical and theological inquiry; Develop a program of study in consultation with an advisor that includes a concentration in one of the following areas: Faith, Science, and Philosophy; Foundations in Philosophy and Theology; Medieval Philosophy and Theology; and Philosophy and Religions. Demonstrate a sophisticated ability to write and speak about philosophical and theological texts and issues through graduate seminars, language study, a comprehensive exam, and an optional thesis. Where are They Now? The Philosophy Dept at BC has a proud record of success with our doctoral graduates - excellent academic placements, distinguished book publications, major scholarly grants and awards and directorships of international NGOs, Non-Profits and other humanities projects. The following is a brief sample. We invite you to join our on-going faculty research projects. Recent Graduate Publications Somatic Desire by Sarah Horton (Editor, Contributor), Stephen Mendelsohn (Editor, Contributor), Christine Rojcewicz (Editor, Contributor), Lexington Books (January 16, 2019) Sarah Horton Stephen Mendelsohn Christine Rojcewicz Schelling, Freud, and the Philosophical Foundation of Psychoanalysis by Theresa Fenichel, Routledge, October 2018 Teresa Fenichel The Catholic Reception of Continental Philosophy in North America, Edited by Greg Floyd and Stephanie Rumpza, University of Toronto Press, Scholarly Publishing Division (February 7, 2020) Stephanie Rumpza Greg Floyd Radical Hospitality, From Thought to Action, Richard Kearney and Melissa Fitzpatrick. Fordham University Press. Published: 2021. Melissa Fitzpatrick Eros Crucified misReading Nietzsche The Art of Anatheism Eros Crucified, Matt Clemente, Eros Crucified, Routledge, November 25, 2019 misReading Nietzsche, Edited by Matt Clemente, Pickwick Publications, an Imprint of Wipf and Stock Publishers (July 30, 2018) The Art of Anatheism, Edited by Richard Kearney and Matt Clemente, Rowman & Littlefield Publishers (December 12, 2017) Matt Clemente The Lily’s Tongue, Frances Maughan-Brown, SUNY Press October 2019 Frances Maughan-Brown Imagination Now A Richard Kearney Reader, Edited by M. E. Littlejohn. Rowman & Littlefield International, Feb 28, 2020 M. E. Littlejohn Back To Top Back To Top Philosophy Department Stokes Hall North 617-552-4570 Facebook Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to Philosophy Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College