COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Waitlisting Section Menu Registrar Home Links for Faculty and Staff Links for Students Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) University Catalog Semester & Academic Calendars Schedule of Courses Residency Registration Final Exam Schedule Reactivation Transcripts Certifications Degree Works (degree audit) FAQ Diplomas Granting Student Record Access to Others (Proxy) Transfer to WSU Waitlisting The Banner registration system offers electronic waitlisting. Not all courses utilize waitlisting; academic departments determine which of their courses will have a waitlist and how they will utilize waitlisting. Please contact the academic department if you have questions on their waitlisted courses. If a waitlist is available for a closed class, the student will be offered the waitlist option during registration. A regular process is run to look for open spots in waitlisted courses and send notifications to the next person on the waitlist. These spots become available when someone drops the course or the department increases the quota. When this happens, the available seat(s) will show; however if the course has students on a waitlist, the system will not allow anyone to enroll in the open seats. The seats are saved until the notification is sent to the next student on the waitlist. The process runs at 10:00 am Sunday through Friday, except for certain excluded dates during extended periods when University offices are closed. During times when the process is not run, students may see that there are vacant seats but no one is able to enroll in the course until the process sends a notification to the next waitlisted student. The below timeline provides information on dates when the process will and will not be run. Summer 2022 Date Process Stage April 4, 2022 Summer registration begins April 5, 2022 Summer automated waitlist process begins June 2, 2022 Last day students can waitlist a full-term or first four-week summer course June 3, 2022 Last day waitlist process is run for full-term or first four-week summer courses June 30, 2022 Last day students can waitlist a second four-week summer course July 1, 2022 Last day waitlist process is run for second four-week summer courses Fall 2022 Date Process Stage April 4, 2022 Fall registration begins April 5, 2022 Fall automated waitlist process begins August 23, 2022 Last day students can waitlist a full-term or first eight-week fall course August 24, 2022 Last day waitlist process is run for full-term and first eight-week fall courses August 25-26, 2022 Waitlist process will NOT run October 9, 2022 Last day students can waitlist a second eight-week fall course October 10, 2022 Last day waitlist process is run for second eight-week fall courses Other Important Waitlisting Information: Courses in other parts-of-term may also use waitlisting. The last day notifications of open seats will be sent will always be before the course begins. Once a class starts, a process is run to remove students from those waitlists. Students are informed via email when this process has been completed. Students cannot waitlist/enroll for more than one section of the same course. Students can waitlist a lecture that has a lab without waitlisting the lab. Students cannot enroll in one course of a co-requisite pair (ie, lecture and lab) and waitlist the other. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©