Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Resources For Families Community of Learners Events Get Involved Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards Faculty Scholars Elizabeth S. Chen, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Medical Science, Warren Alpert Medical School, Associate Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice, Brown University, Associate Director of the Center for Biomedical Informatics, Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics Dr. Chen is the Founding Associate Director of the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI). Her research interests include electronic health records (EHR), clinical documentation, clinical decision support, natural language processing, and data mining. Dr. Chen’s current work is focused on using EHR data and computational techniques to study the interactions among social, behavioral, environmental, and familial determinants of health for conditions such as pediatric asthma. She earned her Ph.D. in Biomedical Informatics from Columbia University in 2004. Melissa Clark, Ph.D. Associate Dean for Education, Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice, Brown School of Public Health Dr. Clark is Associate Dean for Education and a Professor in the Brown University School of Public Health. She is a methodologist whose research interests integrate survey research methods with substantive areas of underserved populations and women's health. Her research explores individual, social, and environmental barriers and facilitators to health and well-being among individuals who have traditionally experienced disparities in health status and access to high quality health care. She received her Ph.D. in Public Health Sciences at the University of Illinois at Chicago School of Public Health. Annie Gjelsvik, Ph.D. Associate Director of MPH Program, Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, Brown University School of Public Health Dr. Gjelsvik obtained her Ph.D. in epidemiology from Brown University in 2003. She worked for 10 years at the RI Department of Health in both the Center for Health Data and Analysis and the Division of Community Health and Equity, including six years as the epidemiologist for the RI Diabetes Prevention and Control Program. Her research interests include maternal and child health and chronic illness. Adam J. Sullivan, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, Brown School of Public Health Dr. Sullivan is the Director of Masters Programs in Biostatistics at Brown University. Dr. Sullivan has taught and developed curriculum at all levels from high school students, undergraduate students, graduate students, medical students and professionals. He received his Ph.D. in Biostatistics from Harvard University in 2015, Masters in Mathematics from South Dakota State University and a Bachelors in Math and Adolescent Education from Houghton College. Dr. Sullivan's research interests are innovative teaching methods, statistics education and statistical modeling. Erika Werner, M.D., M.S. Director, Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, Women and Infants, Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Associate Professor of Epidemiology, Brown School of Public Health Dr.Werner is a Obstetrician/Gynecologist who completed her Maternal Fetal Medicine fellowship at Yale University. She has published widely on cost effectiveness. Her current research focuses on diabetes in pregnancy, preeclampsia and preterm birth. She is particularly interested in the effects of pregnancy on long term health for both the mother and infant. She has several ongoing trials at Women & Infants Hospital. About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top