Skip to main content About Our Work Explore Our Stories In-Depth Series Tools for Civic Engagement The Challenges of Reopening Confronting the Coronavirus One and All What Do Anxious Teens Need? Welcoming Newcomers Preventing Sexual Harassment Use Our Content CONTACT US: Usable Knowledge Harvard Graduate School of Education 20 University Rd., 6th Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 Challenges? Interests? Get in touch! uknow@gse.harvard.edu @uknowhgse Subscribe Search Fulltext search icon_Share SHARE Perspectives + Opinions Help Them Swim, Not Sink How principal mentorship programs can benefit first-year leaders By: Emily Boudreau Posted: April 27, 2022 New school principals face high-stakes decisions as they navigate an unprecedented wave of challenges, including political and social rifts, the mental health crisis, and teacher resignations. Not surprisingly, this kind of stress takes a toll: almost 20% of principals leave the job each year, and nearly half of new principals leave their schools after three years. As school leaders, this kind of turnover impacts the whole community — its effects have been found to trickle down into student achievement as well as teacher turnover. Rather than let principals sink or swim, what are the options for helping them gain the confidence they need to tackle challenges? As Bridgewater State University professor Phyllis Gimbel and educator and writer Peter Gow show in their new book, one answer is mentorship programs. In Leadership Through Mentoring: The Key to Improving the Confidence and Skill of Principals, Gimbel (a Harvard Graduate School of Education alum) and Gow draw on mentorship initiatives with the Vermont Principals’ Association and the Massachusetts School Administrators Association to understand how to successfully deploy mentorship programs to support and retain principals. Takeaways include: Match the leadership styles, backgrounds, and interests of mentors and mentees. Because mentors will be offering advice drawn from their perspective and experiences, it’s important that there’s some shared ground. However, a successful relationship may not just be based on the similarities between work environments. Having common interests outside of work may help to deepen and enrich the relationship. Mentors should meet with their mentees regularly and consistently. Mentoring is a time commitment and mentors need to be readily available. Consistent meetings help to build trust. As such, it may be helpful to find mentors who may not currently be working, such as retired principals. Also, provide mentors with compensation for their time and insight. Put trust at the center of the relationship. A mentor’s job is not to evaluate or pass judgement on a principal but to ask questions and to listen with empathy. The mentor is not actively trying to coach the mentee or reporting on their success. “Turn good intentions into effective actions.” A good mentor can help cultivate a successful leadership practice in a mentee by asking careful questions, giving the mentee time to think, listen to their answer, and paraphrasing or reciting any new ideas and answers back to the mentee. Giving time for the mentee to reflect on their decisions and growth is also critical to help ensure that any next steps are thoughtful and effective. Widen Layout: standard Additional Resources: Teacher-Student Relationships Matter Fostering Whole-School Wellness in a Pandemic Education Now: Why Teachers Leave Teaching — and How to Support and Retain Them The Principal Pipeline The Learning Policy Institute on Supporting a Strong, Stable Principal Workforce The Wallace Foundation on School Leadership See More In K-12 School Leadership - Any -ArtsCivics and HistoryCollege and CareerDiversity and InclusionEarly ChildhoodEducation PolicyGlobal EducationK-12Language and LiteracyLearning and TeachingMind and BrainParenting and CommunitySchool LeadershipSocial-Emotional WellbeingSTEM LearningStudents with Disabilities Research Stories The Principal Challenge Taking a closer look at an iconic profession — and what it takes to succeed By: Bari Walsh, Matt Weber Posted: April 28, 2016 Tagged: Education Policy, K-12, School Leadership Perspectives + Opinions 5 Ways to Become an Equity Detective in Your School Irvin Scott says you need to investigate and go after inequality By: Jill Anderson Posted: July 22, 2021 Tagged: Diversity and Inclusion, K-12, School Leadership See All Usable Knowledge Posts About Our Work Subscribe to Our Newsletter Twitter | Facebook Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice