Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center Faculty & Staff Events Resources & Research Contact Us William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Wichita Academics School of Medicine Wichita About Academics M.D. Program-Wichita MPH Program Graduate Medical Education-Wichita Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita George J. Farha Medical Library Simulation Center JayDoc Community Clinic Research Research Office of Research-Wichita Center for Clinical Research-Wichita Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival Human Research Protection Program-Wichita Patient Care Patient Care Medical Practice Association & Clinics Affiliate KU Wichita Clinics JayDoc Community Clinic School-Based Health Care Outreach Outreach Community Programs Student Life Student Life The BEAT Academic & Student Affairs Healthy Hawks About School of Medicine Wichita About About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center Faculty & Staff Events Resources & Research Contact Us William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita Simulation Center The KU School of Medicine-Wichita Simulation Center is dedicated to the transformative education of health care professionals to improve safety, quality and teamwork. Faculty & Staff Events Resources & Research Contact Us We are pleased that you are interested in the work we do in our simulation lab that benefits students, residents, faculty, practitioners and patients. We are especially proud of our unique expertise and approach to interprofessional education and collaborative care. Our team strives to provide high quality simulation sessions that are customized to the level and background of each group of learners. If you are a faculty member interested in developing a simulation for your learners, please complete our online form or call us at 316-293-3441 to discuss your interest. We also invite you to tour our outstanding facility. We look forward to providing the best service to our faculty and learners! The Basic Assumption "We believe everyone participating is intelligent, well-trained, cares about doing their best, and wants to improve." Vision Provide a safe place for learners to grow through curiosity and the application of knowledge. Maintain a commitment to being an interprofessional educational environment that includes patients and families. Be a place where everyone wants to learn, teach, and conduct research. Core Values Excellence Human Dignity, Honesty and Respect Caring and Compassion Teamwork and Participatory Decision Making Encouraging and Curiosity Continuous Improvement News Foundation gift offsets cost of new ‘high fidelity’ medical manikin KU Wichita helps VA prepare for female vets The Wonder of it all: Middle school students visit Simulation Center at KU School of Medicine-Wichita Surgicare of Wichita's donation aids Simulation Center, others across Wichita Simulation Center at KU School of Medicine-Wichita in demand Workshop highlights point-of-care-ultrasound technology, technique The Simulation Center is a proud participant in the Scholars in Rural Health program. Coinciding with Healthcare Simulation Week, the Simulation Center hosted an open house that was featured on KSN-TV. Students from Park Elementary School explored the Simulation Center and learned the basics of CPR. Calendar Simulation Center Faculty & Staff only: Visit the Simulation Center SharePoint Website KU School of Medicine-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.