Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Enrollment Services Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Housing Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Tuition and Fees Course Fees Dining Withdrawal/Cancellation Info GradGuard Tuition Refund Plan Additional Charges Cost Estimate Calculator Payment Due Dates Loans Loans Family Assistance Loan Summer Studies Loan Financial Aid Parent Information Payments Payments Make A Payment (SMUpay) Payment Methods Returned Checks Payment Plan Options FAQs Cost of Attendance Payment Plan Options Refunds FAQs FAQs Videos ☰ SMU Enrollment Services Bursar University Bursar The Office of the University Bursar is committed to helping students and their families achieve financial resolutions by providing superior quality service. We take pride in our immediate response to your questions about student finances, paying bills and more! Payment Options Payment Due Dates Refunds Parent Info Important Announcements Fall 2022 Undergraduate Tuition Billing Fall 2022 undergraduate student tuition bills will be made available online, through SMUpay, on July 26, 2022 and the payment due date is August 12, 2022. Be sure to check your SMU email account frequently to avoid missing important information, including billing notifications. Be sure to add your parent(s)/guardian(s) as authorized payers so they may receive emailed notifications when bills are available (see “Parent/Guardian Access to Student Records (my.SMU) and Authorized Payer Portal (SMUpay)” below). Important: Depending on whether you have registered for all of your classes at the time of the July billing, your bill may only reflect a portion of your full semester charges. Please be sure to log in to SMUpay regularly to view your updated balance if you register for classes on or after July 25. Parent/Guardian Access to Student Records (my.SMU) and Authorized Payer Portal (SMUpay) If you are a parent/guardian and would like to gain access to your student’s education records (my.SMU), please refer to the Release of Education Records page here. If you are a parent/guardian who would like to receive billing notifications and become authorized by your student to make payments on his or her behalf, your student must first set you up as an authorized payer (SMUpay) by following instructions found here. Note: Please refer to our FAQs for answers to questions we frequently receive from students and families. Change in Credit Card Service Fee Due to fee increases imposed on our third-party payment processor, Nelnet Campus Commerce, the non-refundable credit card service fee will increase from 2.75% to 2.85%, effective June 1, 2022. This credit card service fee is added to the total credit card payment as a separate transaction and is charged to you by our payment processor; SMU does not receive any portion of this service fee. Please keep in mind that this fee increase applies to all credit card payments, including those made toward monthly payment plans. We are here to help! Our staff is fully committed to assisting students, their families and the entire SMU community. In addition to visiting us at the Laura Lee Blanton Building, you can visit our virtual front desk, where you will be greeted by a student account advisor through Zoom. We also offer scheduled virtual appointments though Zoom. To schedule your virtual appointment, click here and select any advisor listed. Bursar’s Office Informational Video Bursar Cost of Attendance Cost Estimate Calculator Financial Literacy Financial Information Bulletins Payment Due Dates Loans Parent Information Payments Payment Plan Options Refunds 1098-T Student Rights and Responsibilities FAQs Contact Us Virtual Front Desk Pay Now Students Parents Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share