Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Visit Virtual Campus Experience Virtual Campus Experience Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Virtual Information Sessions and Events Tune in to a live SMU Information session given by an SMU Admission Counselor! Virtual Tour Experience the SMU campus through our virtual tour. Virtual 1:1 Appointments with Admission Counselors Speak 1:1 with an SMU Admission Counselor. Find your counselor, go to their bio page and find the scheduling link at the top of the page. Transfer Friday Virtual Information Sessions | Tune in to a live SMU Transfer Information session given by an SMU Transfer Admission Counselor. Connect with the Academic Schools and Colleges View videos of academic information sessions for the any of the five academic schools and colleges. Attend a live virtual information session with the Cox School of Business, Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences, Lyle School of Engineering or Meadows School of the Arts Residential Commons SMU is home to 11 on-campus Residential Commons. Learn more about them by watching this video. Social Media Follow the SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission on social media @smuadmission on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube. Also, hear right from our SMU Admission Ambassadors in regard to their SMU experiences via the SMU Hilltop Ambassador Blog. Experience Dallas Experience Dallas | Learn about all things Dallas including things to do, events, dining, neighborhoods and more. Admitted First-Year Students Admitted first-year students - connect with other students via the Class of 2025 Facebook and Instagram pages. SMU on YouTube Learn more about the SMU experience by watching any of the videos on the SMU YouTube channel. We are here for you! If you have any questions, please call our office at 214-768-2058, text us at 214-768-9990 or email ugadmission@smu.edu. Our office hours at Monday-Friday, 8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. CST. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search