Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Menu University Updates About Baylor Dashboard COVID-19 Contact Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 Faculty & Staff Resources How to Report a COVID-19 Positive Case COVID-19 Testing Information Vaccine Information Hybrid or Remote Work Resources Learning Together External Resources FAQs Testing, Face Coverings Vaccination Isolation/Quarantine Procedures Student Health, Pastoral Care and Counseling Services Operations & Facilities Interim COVID-19 Policies/University Requirements General Information About COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Sources Outside of Waco Travel Contacts COVID-19 Testing Vaccination Information Resources Primary Resources For Students For Faculty and Staff Travel Advisories and Resources From the CDC COVID-19 Contact Baylor>Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information>Vaccination Information Vaccination Information Document Vaccination card or positive COVID-19 test (past 90 days) Must be logged in to your Baylor-provided email account to access the form Confidential Employee Medical Record Form Vaccinate Make an Appointment Effective May 19-20, 2022, Baylor Health Services will move its vaccination clinic from the North Village Community Center to the Health Center in the McLane Student Life Center. If you are seeking information about COVID testing, please visit the Baylor COVID testing webpage, the Waco/McLennan County Public Health District website, your primary care physician or your local public health district. Baylor Health Center Vaccination Clinic Schedule Thursdays and Fridays: 1 to 4:10 p.m. for adult and pediatric vaccinations and booster appointments. There is no cost for the COVID-19 vaccination. How to Make a Vaccination Appointment The Baylor Health Center vaccination clinic offers first and second doses of all three COVID-19 vaccines, as well as boosters, to employees and students, as well as spouses and dependents of employees and students. The pediatric Pfizer vaccine is available for dependent children ages 5-11 of employees and students. Vaccination appointments for students, faculty and staff: Students, faculty and staff can make appointments for themselves online for a COVID-19 or flu vaccination by logging in to the Health Portal on the Baylor Health Center website. Vaccination appointments for dependent and spouses: Appointments for COVID vaccinations for dependents and spouses cannot be made online.Faculty and staff must call the Baylor Health Center at 254-710-1010. Vaccine Resources: Vaccines.gov: A free, online service that assists in finding locations where the COVID vaccine is available. The Waco-McLennan County Public Health District also provides local vaccine information on its website. If you are a student or employee and need assistance finding a vaccine provider, call 254-710-2900 from 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday or email at ehs@baylor.edu. In providing information to locate a vaccine source, Baylor University is not acting as your health care provider. For more information about the COVID-19 vaccine, including frequently asked questions, visit The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website. Note: Note: Effective Monday, Feb. 21: Updated COVID-19 facemask policy Effective Monday, Feb. 21, 2022: Facemasks will be optional in academic classrooms and labs– other than when requested in private offices. You can continue to ask anyone in your personal office space to wear a facemask. We request that you please put up a sign letting people know your preferences. Signs can be downloaded here. The University strongly encourages you to continue monitoring your personal health for COVID-19 symptoms on a daily basis and seek testing through the University or your personal healthcare provider if you are not well. Please respect your classmates and colleagues and stay at home if you are sick. The University will continue to offer N95 facemasks – which offer the highest levels of COVID-19 protection – at no charge. These are available for students at many high-traffic locations across campus, including at residence halls and the McLane Student Life Center, and for departments by emailing Environmental Health & Safety at ehs@baylor.edu. Faculty, staff and student employees: If you have a medically documented disability and are requesting a reasonable accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act, please work with Human Resources in accordance with BU-PP 415. If you have different concerns for your family or yourself that require additional considerations, please work with your department chair or HR to find a mutually agreeable solution. The University will continue to monitor COVID-19 closely and make any adjustments to our policies and procedures should conditions worsen. Vaccination Information General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 University Updates About Baylor Dashboard COVID-19 Contact Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 Faculty & Staff Resources How to Report a COVID-19 Positive Case COVID-19 Testing Information Vaccine Information Hybrid or Remote Work Resources Learning Together External Resources FAQs Testing, Face Coverings Vaccination Isolation/Quarantine Procedures Student Health, Pastoral Care and Counseling Services Operations & Facilities Interim COVID-19 Policies/University Requirements General Information About COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Sources Outside of Waco Travel Contacts COVID-19 Testing Vaccination Information Resources Primary Resources For Students For Faculty and Staff Travel Advisories and Resources From the CDC COVID-19 Contact