Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Boston College Veterans Memorial Back Back Close World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Afghanistan/Iraq Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Boston College Veterans Memorial and this website honor alumni who died in service to their country. Alumni Veterans pages To view an individual veteran's page, begin by selecting the appropriate conflict below. World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Afghanistan/Iraq This website contains information about Boston College alumni veterans who died in the line of military duty and are honored on the Boston College Veterans Memorial. Each veteran has a page, which shows his class year, military rank, and branch of service. Where available, there is also information on date of birth, hometown, military awards and decorations, and date and location of death. Some of the veterans pages also have links to photos and images of documents and articles. We welcome contributions of remembrances, photographs, and other documentary information about honored veterans. Submissions should be emailed to the Office of University Communications. Boston College Veterans Stories Standing Watch Play A Boston College Minute: Standing Watch This video illustrates some of the quiet moments in the first year of the Veterans Memorial Wall on the Burns Library lawn. The 70-foot-long, two-foot-high serpentine granite wall is etched with the names now of 210 alumni who died in the line of duty in U.S. military conflicts since the start of the First World War. At its dedication on Veterans Day, November 11, 2009, University President William P. Leahy, SJ, offered the blessing. More about the Memorial Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Veterans Memorial bc-veterans-memorial-ggroup@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College