Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Writing and Media Center Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Schedule an Appointment Home About Us Hours Locations Our Policies Meet Our Team Leadership Team Communication Consultants Consultants by Discipline Administrative Assistants Mission Statement Strategic Priorities Core Values Land Acknowledgement Research Our Services Types of Consultations In-Person Online Google Doc Video and Document Sharing Drop Box Multimedia Communication Center Embedded Consulting Workshops and Presentations Undergraduate and Graduate Writing Retreats Writing Groups Community Writing Center Professional Workshop Series Speaker Series Resources Resources for Written Communication Resources for Oral Communication Resources for Visual and Electronic Communication Webinars Green Dot Resources Employment FAQ SCHEDULE 1 Summer 2022 2 Closed for Memorial Day 3 Quote 4 Greeting More Effective Communication Starts Here The Writing and Media Center (WMC) helps students become stronger, more confident communicators. The WMC is a welcoming and inclusive peer tutoring center where friendly Communication Consultants offer individualized assistance to undergraduate and graduate students working on any form of written, oral, visual, or electronic communication. New to the WMC? Check out our welcome video to see what we're all about! Client Testimonials “I visited the Writing & Media Center for help with preparing my resume for an award. The WMC provided me with excellent assistance on my resume and helped me put my skills, expertise, and experience into easy to understand words and phrases. As a non-traditional student who was formerly in the military, school and writing a resume can seem very foriegn. I would definitely recommend going to the WMC for any writing assignment that you would like another opinion on!” - John Gidley, Kinesiology & Health, Pre-Health Professions “I visited the Writing & Media Center to review my cover letter, resume, and a final essay for a class. My appointment was very helpful and informative, and I left feeling more confident in my work. My experience was extremely beneficial, and I plan on going back for other writing assignments. As a Kinesiology student, the WMC helped me organize my thoughts into a structured piece of work. I would definitely recommend the WMC to other Kinesiology students for any assignment. Whether it be big or small, rough draft or final touches, the WMC will help you through it!” - Morgan Kane, Kinesiology & Health, Exercise Science What would you like to do? We're here to help! Schedule an appointment Register for an account Request a presentation or workshop Request brochures Apply for a job Watch our promotional video Get to know our team Announcements Thank you for a wonderful spring semester! Congratulations and happy graduation to our graduating employees! Summer hours for the Writing and Media Center begin May 23, 2022. Make an appointment here. Dean of Students Office Writing and Media Center Writing and Media Center 208 Carver Hall 515-294-5411 1020 Hixson-Lied Student Success Center 515-294-8899 Parks Library 130D Now Operating Online and In-Person writectr@iastate.edu YouTube Facebook Twitter Instagram Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information