Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Student Employment Home About Student Employment About Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Work for the Career Center Our student employees are vital members of our team and our success depends on their contributions. Students who work for our office gain the skills employers seek most as well as direct mentorship to help them connect their student employment to future career goals. All open positions will be posted on Handshake. Types of Student Positions Peer Career Coaches Our Peer Career Coaches are extensively trained to advise on various career-related topics, promote the Career Center's services, programs and events across campus, and create collaborations with offices throughout the Division of Student Affairs and Boston College. We hire Peer Career Coaches each Spring. Front Desk Ambassadors Our Front Desk Ambassadors are the friendly faces that greet everyone who enters the Career Center. They are responsible for managing the front office, including directing coaching appointments visits, to help ensure smooth day-to-day operations. We hire multiple Front Desk Ambassadors throughout the academic year as needed. Employer Engagement/Recruiting Assistants Our Employer Engagement Assistants directly support the work of our employer engagement and recruting efforts. Employer Engagement Assistants work in the areas of project planning and execution, as well as research, data collection, and ensuring smooth day-to-day operations. Recruiting Assitants handle office reception and administrative duties. We hire multiple Employer Engagement/Recruiting Assistants throughout the academic year as needed. Marketing Assistants/Data Assistants Our Marketing Assistants and Data Assistants work within the Operations Team. Marketing Assistants support the Career Center's overall brand and communications. Data Assistants help us maintain our databases and analyze data to inform decision making. We hire multiple Marketing Assistants and Data Assistants throughout the academic year as needed. Graduate Assistants Our Graduate Assistants support the overall work of the Career Center. They coach students, contribute to our committees and programs, supervise our Peer Career Coaches, lead workshops, act as TA's for our career course, and collaborate with partners throughout the Univeristy. We hire five graduate assistants to work in our office throughout the academic year as needed. Why Join Our Team Your career development is our priority. You will have direct access to services and resources to assist you on your career journey, including Eagle Path. You will gain transferable skills that employers are seeking in their interns and entry-level candidates. You will make a meaningful impact on the Boston College community by helping to empower students to realize their career goals. You will join a welcoming and caring team and work in a lively office environment. Student Employment Opportunities If you are looking for student employment opportunities beyond the Career Center, visit the Office of Student Services. We encourage you to use our office as a resource to help you with your application. What is Eagle Path? Eagle Path is a guided approach to supervision of student employees to help you reflect upon, recognize, develop, and articulate your career aspirations. Eagle Path Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College