Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Current Students Student Services Student Services and Support The following offices and departments are here to assist SMU students: SMU Bookstore Center for Teaching Excellence Dining Services Disability Accommodations & Success Strategies Finances Bursar's Office Graduate Financial Aid Health Center Housing for Graduate Students International Student & Scholar Services Libraries Library - Graduate Student Services Office of the Chaplain and Religious Life Office of Information Technology Parking and Transportation Parking Alternative Transportation SMU Express SMU Police Department Recreation and Athletics Athletics Tickets Dedman Center for Lifetime Sports (gym) Department of Recreational Sports Registrar's Office Student Support Graduate school can be exciting, overwhelming, eye-opening, stressful, and life-changing, all at once. When faced with difficulties, students can always go speak with their advisor, department Director of Graduate Studies, or department Chair. These faculty members should be excellent resources for all students. In situations where students are looking for further support, we encourage you to take advantage of the following resources: SMU Counseling Services SMU Counseling and Psychiatric Services (CAPS) offers a broad range of confidential outpatient services. Counseling and psychiatric services are available to currently enrolled SMU students at no charge. You can learn more about scheduling an appointment here. If you need immediate help, you can call CAPS at 214-768-2277. During business hours you'll be able to speak with the department, and after hours you'll reach a recorded message with information on accessing the mental health professional on call. If it is an emergency situation, please call the SMU Police at 214-768-3333 or dial 911. SMU Caring Community Connections The Caring Community Connections program provides support to students who are experiencing challenges by identifying and linking them to appropriate resources. If you are concerned about a fellow student, you can submit information here to seek help from the CCC team. Office of the Chaplain and Religious Life The Chaplain's Office offers pastoral counseling, spiritual direction, and counseling from a Christian perspective. To make an appointment, call 214-768-4502. You can always reach out to the Graduate Studies office for assistance as well by contacting the Dean or Director of Graduate Studies. Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share