Skip to main content Main navigation Mobile Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Main navigation Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search About In This Section More About Leadership & Administration Diversity, Equity, and Anti-Racism Transparent Engagement and Funding Our Work in the United States & Around the World Visiting Committee Media Policies Contact Us In This Section You are here Home About Learn. Lead. Serve. Harvard Kennedy School’s mission is to improve public policy and leadership so people can live in societies that are more safe, free, just, and sustainably prosperous. By combining cutting-edge research, the teaching of outstanding students, and direct interaction with practitioners, we have an impact on solving public problems that no other institution can match. Students and alumni of Harvard Kennedy School are showing their commitment to public service in their countries, states, cities and neighborhoods around the world. Through research, teaching, and engagement with practitioners, Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government improves public policy and public leadership so that people can live in societies that are safer, freer, more just, and more sustainably prosperous. Our faculty, students, staff, about 23,000 degree program alumni, and more than 66,000 executive education participants tackle a diverse range of public challenges in the United States and around the world. Our teaching, research, and engagement with practitioners focus on these priorities: Protecting international security and freedom Strengthening democracy Advancing social justice and human rights Increasing economic well-being Enhancing sustainability Improving public leadership and management History A new kind of institution The John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University was established in 1936. At the time, the United States was recovering from the Great Depression, and the government was grappling with historic domestic and international challenges. Seeing a need for improved, professionalized public service, Harvard alumnus Lucius N. Littauer funded the Graduate School of Public Administration at Harvard with an unprecedented $2 million gift. At the time, it was the largest single gift from an individual donor given to a university. Since then, HKS has stayed faithful to its mission to improve public policy and leadership so people can live in safer, freer, more just, and more prosperous societies. Now more than ever Our work to advance the common good has never been more important. In the United States and around the world, many people have lost confidence in their leaders and their governments because of problems in politics, economics, security, and other aspects of our societies. To preserve the gains of the postwar order and enable further improvements in the lives of all people, the passion and skills of the Kennedy School community can make a crucial difference. You can be part of this endeavor. Explore and learn more about Harvard Kennedy School. Get to know us Educational Programs The Kennedy School offers you the opportunity to immerse yourself in the study of public policy, administration, and leadership through a comprehensive range of degree and executive education programs. Our Programs Leadership & Administration Meet the School's leaders, who support the mission to improve public policy and public leadership across the United States and around the world so people can live in safer, freer, more just, and more prosperous societies. Meet our leadership PolicyCast Our hosts speak with leading experts in public policy, media, and international affairs about their experiences confronting the world's most pressing public problems. This page features the latest podcast episodes. Listen to PolicyCast 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/