Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Mathematics Teaching (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Using the latest, research-based pedagogical strategies, learn to actively engage students in mathematics with a degree in mathematics teaching. This program prepares you to teach students in grades 9-12. In early and diversified field experiences, you will have significant opportunities to broaden and deepen your understandings of mathematics teaching and learning. Our program has top-level faculty who are recognized for their excellence in teaching. In addition to higher-level mathematics courses, you will complete five courses designed specifically for secondary mathematics teachers. This sequence of courses is unique to Clemson and makes our program exceptional in the preparation of teachers. FAST FACTS Our department is accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation (CAEP) and the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM). Our students complete more than 100 hours in schools prior to student teaching. Our 72-day student teaching internship exceeds the state's certification requirements for student teaching by 12 days. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Field experiences and clinical practice are critical program components that allow you to apply your knowledge, skills and dispositions in a variety of classroom settings. Field placements are selected and structured with the aim of drawing on the richness of diversity that our location in Upstate South Carolina affords. These field placements are supported with course work that prepares you to cultivate the talent inherent in all students, with a particular focus on students who have been underserved in their mathematics schooling experiences. Field experiences represent a variety of early and ongoing school-based opportunities in which you may observe, assist, tutor, instruct or conduct applied research. These experiences extend the South Carolina Assisting, Developing and Evaluating Professional Teaching (ADEPT) performance standards into practice in school settings. In your classes, you’ll have chances to participate in undergraduate research projects that will strengthen your connections between theory and the practice of teaching. Our focus is on preparing you to recognize, value and cultivate the talent in all the students you will teach. We have specially designed courses geared toward teaching mathematics content, and our mathematics-specific methods courses provide opportunities to deepen content knowledge and develop strategies to mathematically engage your future students at deep levels. Curriculum Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Popular Minors Biological Sciences Chemistry Economics Physics Similar Majors Mathematical Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Secondary Education (B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM The College of Education is committed to providing all students with purposeful, challenging and diverse experiences. It is through a range of carefully constructed, challenging and classroom-based instruction and field-based experiences that students recognize the inherent dignity and value of all individuals, promote equity in education and advocate on behalf of children, families and communities. Research The Inquiry in Motion Institute seeks to improve the motivation, potential and achievement of students and teachers using rigorous learning experiences. This research gives Clemson students strategies for improving student performance. CEIMS Clemson hosts the Center of Excellence for Inquiry in Math and Science, which seeks to increase the number of highly qualified middle school math and science teachers, and the confidence and competence of in-service middle school teachers. Training Casio America Inc. has named Clemson as its Center of Academic Training. Casio's programs enrich the mathematics classroom and use graphing calculator technology to foster investigations and deeper understanding of mathematical concepts. OUTREACH The Emerging Scholars program provides outreach to disadvantaged students. Clemson students participate as program advisers who lead discussions, assist with registration and share personal experiences to encourage these students. Learn More » Join Our student organization affiliated with the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics allows our preservice teachers to share ideas, have access to publications designed for math teachers and receive discount rates to conferences. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Call Me MISTER Creative Inquiry Student Organizations AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Mathematics Teacher Charleston County School District, S.C Mathematics Teacher Greenville County Schools, S.C. Mathematics Teacher Lexington-Richland School District 5, S.C. Mathematics Teacher Anderson School District Five, S.C. Mathematics Teacher Anne Arundel County Public Schools, Md. RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.Ed. Clemson University COMMON CAREER AREAS Most graduates go on to teach in the state and region, while some continue with graduate education. High School (ninths through 12th grades) FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jamie Garland Academic Adviser 864-656-3180 jgarlan@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Mathematics Teaching (B.S.) Mathematical Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Secondary Education (B.A.)