Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Fraternity and Sorority Life Interfraternity Council Interfraternity Council IFC Recruitment Multicultural Greek Council Multicultural Greek Council MGC Intake National Pan-Hellenic Council National Pan-Hellenic Council NPHC Intake Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Recruitment Parent and Families ☰ Fraternity and Sorority Life Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Recruitment Panhellenic Recruitment Interested in Panhellenic Recruitment? Ready to Register? We are excited to hear that you are interested in joining the Panhellenic community! Click the button below for up to date detailed information as well as the registration link. SMU Panhellenic Council Additional Information Frequently Asked Questions If you are interested in participating in Panhellenic Formal Recruitment in January, registration OPENS September 5 and CLOSES November 30 at 11:59PM. No registrations will be processed or allowed after that date. All registration fees/costs are non-refundable. Ensure that you meet the eligibility requirements. The SMU Panhellenic Council does not require nor manage recommendations. Any recommendations must be submitted directly to the chapters. Please visit the chapter websites with specific information and requirements for each organization. Any recommendations that come to the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life will be discarded. Traditionally, between 550-600 women will start the formal recruitment process. Historically, about 10 women unfortunately do not receive invitations back to future events during the week. While the recruitment process is not perfect, the numbers indicate that overall, if a woman has an open mind and wants to join an organization - one will be available for her. Too often, though, women go through the process with a narrower opinion. Unfortunately, this attitude poses a real danger for disappointment and should be considered before a woman chooses to participate in the process. Legacies (those with relatives who are/were members) are not guaranteed bids. Every year, women who are legacies to chapters are disappointed because they are not given an invitation to membership. Additionally, each chapter has differing policies on how legacies are managed, invited and bid. This can be mitigated by participating with an open mind and realizing that each chapter offers something great in their own unique way. While we cannot guarantee a bid, historically women who maximize their options in the formal recruitment process (meaning they attend all recruitment events to which they are invited and rank all available options on preference night) have been matched successfully and received a bid. Residence Halls open in early January. Each student should work with their Resident Assistant and Residential Community Director to determine when they can move back in. Formal recruitment dates are still being finalized and will be available once set. Students should work with their Resident Assistant and Residential Community Director if they have questions regarding move-in. Please check www.smupanhellenic.com for full recruitment schedule details. Deadlines & Schedule Overview Please visit www.smupanhellenic.com for the latest information about recruitment. Monday, September 5th, 2022: Recruitment Registration Opens at 8AM Wednesday, November 30th, 2022: Deadline to Register for Recruitment in January, Closes at 11:59PM (late registrations will NOT be accepted) 2023 Formal Recruitment Dates TBD (Check back in late Summer for a finalized schedule) Continuous Open Bidding Continuous Open Bidding is the process in which Panhellenic organizations continue to extend bids during an informal recruiting process in both the spring and fall semester to eligible students. This recruitment process in the Fall semester is for upper class women only (those that have passed and completed at least 12 college credit hours at SMU in a long semester (i.e. Fall or Spring) COB Registration Interested? Fill out the registration form and reach out to Panhellenic with any questions (panhellenic@smu.edu). Registration Fee: N/A Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share