Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Iowa State University Department of English Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Donate Home Undergraduate Schedule A Visit Apply Online Academic Advising Majors English Major Requirements Linguistics Major Requirements Speech Communication Requirements Bachelor of Science in Technical Communication Minors Careers in English Testing Out of Classes English 150 Test-Out English/Ling 220 Test-Out English 250 Test-Out English 302 Test-Out English 314 Test-Out SP CM 212 Test-Out Transfer Credit Policies Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards and Scholarships Learning Communities Graduate Prospective Students How to Apply Financial Support for New Students Professional Development Opportunities Resources to Welcome You Applied Linguistics PhD in Applied Linguistics & Technology MA in TESL/Applied Linguistics Graduate Certificate in TESL/TEFL Faculty Students Recent Alumni Creative Writing and Environment MFA in Creative Writing and Environment Faculty Current Students Recent Alumni Thesis FAQ MFA Application Guidelines Pearl Hogrefe Fellowship Application Guidelines Everett Casey Nature Center & Reserve Pearl Hogrefe Visiting Writer Series Flyway: Journal of Writing and Environment English MA in English (Literature) MA in English (Literature & the Teaching of Reading) Faculty Current Students Recent Alumni Rhetoric & Professional Communication Program Rhetoric & Professional Communication (PhD) PhD in RPC: Coursework & Program of Study Rhetoric, Composition, & Professional Communication (MA) MA in RCPC: Coursework & Program of Study Faculty Current Students Recent Alumni Phorum Graduate Program of Study Manual (August 2021) Graduate Awards, Scholarships, and Grants Current Student & Faculty Resources Forms Deadlines Course Offerings English Graduate Studies Lending Library Center for Communication Excellence (CCE) Green Dot Violence Prevention Program Grad Connections ISUComm About ISUComm Vision, Mission, Means The Principles of ISUComm Communication Proficiency ISUComm Support ISUComm ePortfolios DRAW Foundation Communication Curriculum and Objectives English Placement Policy English 150 Test-Out English 250 Test-Out Specialized Foundation Courses Transfer Credit Policies University Requirement for C or Better in English 250 Advanced Communication Courses in Advanced Communication Advanced Communication Test-Out Procedures Transfer Credit Policies Speech Communication Course Descriptions SP CM 212 Test-Out Transfer Credit Policies About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Advisers Graduate Student Directory Department Spotlight Office Hours Administrative Personnel Department News Department Calendar Learning Outcomes Assessment Faculty Resources Research What’s Going On Now Research Groups Alumni Newsletter and Giving English Alumni Awards Home Graduate Studies Rhetoric and Professional Communication Rhetoric and Professional Communication (old) Rhetoric and Professional Communication (old) RPC Students Present at National Council of Writing Program Administrators Conference 1 2 3 4 5 Join a program committed to studying the rhetorical and technological complexities of contemporary communication practice. We embrace multimodal composition, new media, and digital collaboration. Our breadth of faculty expertise, robust technology infrastructure, multimodal pedagogy, and responsive curriculum make possible a comprehensive approach to graduate education. Our PhD program was founded in 1991 as one of the first PhD programs in the U.S. to feature the role of rhetoric in technical and professional communication. Doctoral and masters students in the RPC program have a positive, enriching experience. Graduate students specialize in professional communication, multimodal composition, or rhetoric. The graduate student experience is enhanced by engaged faculty collaborative research opportunities myriad courses guided teaching opportunities graduate student workshops Explore the adventure of the PhD in Rhetoric and Professional Communication or the MA in Rhetoric, Composition, and Professional Communication. Three reasons you should consider applying to our master’s or doctoral degree programs: Contemporary coursework. The digital information age is the energy driving education, commerce, and government. It’s the latest in a long history of communication-rich eras, going back to the golden age of Greece. In the MA program of study, you will explore rhetoric’s historical origins; sample the latest theories; develop skills for teaching, Web designing, document production, and visual communication; learn to write proposals; produce manuals and in-house publications; and edit technical and scientific documents, whether print or online. Engaged faculty. Our faculty have won numerous awards in both teaching and research. Award-winning teachers teach classes regularly and interact closely with graduate students in the classroom and on thesis committees. Faculty members, such as David Russell and Charlie Kostelnick, have won national awards for outstanding research. Our RPC faculty even founded and continue to edit one of the major academic journals in the field: Journal of Business and Technical Communication. Opportunities. You can shape your interest in communication into a career that’s right for you. Want to be a technical writer for the computer industry? Want to teach business and technical communication at the community college level? Want to be an editor for a corporate newsletter? Want to go beyond the MA (half of our MA graduates have gone on to study for their doctorates)? Want to participate in a workplace internship to help you decide which direction to take as well as prepare your portfolio for a successful job search? What Makes Our Program Distinctive? The Breadth of our Faculty Our rhetoric faculty is among the most multifaceted anywhere. Our breadth gives students the opportunity to master a diverse range of perspectives on rhetorical issues, as well as the chance to work closely with faculty mentors. Our faculty focus on a wide range of issues within rhetoric and professional communication, including multimodal communication pedagogy, visual rhetoric, workplace communication, technology, the history of rhetoric, and public address. We integrate communication with various forms of subject-matter expertise; as a result, we have students with bachelor’s and master’s degrees from a wide range of fields. Impact on the Profession The numerous publications that ISU faculty members have produced and edited are heavily cited in other publications and have earned faculty members many national awards. 100% Placement Rate for PhD Graduates Among our PhD alumni who have looked for an academic position, there is a 100% placement rate. Our graduates serve in departments across the country and around the world and are well prepared for positions in both academia and industry. Interdisciplinary Collaboration The English Department at ISU is large, with programs in Creative Writing and Environment, Literature, English Education, Teaching English as a Second Language, Applied Linguistics and Technology, Communication Studies, and Speech Communication. Students in RPC have the opportunity to study and work with faculty in a wide range of specialties. The ISU Human-Computer Interaction Initiative as well as major NSF-funded initiatives like Iowa EPSCoR and Symbi have proven excellent sites for study and collaboration among our graduate students, as have the College of Business and the Department of Agronomy. Technology Resources Digital technologies are an essential part of professional communication. The skill to use them to produce high-quality communication products is not a talent; it is mastered by working in communities that foster such skills. The Rhetoric and Professional Communication programs have access to some of the best computer/technology resources available to any rhetoric program in the world; our technology resources are far superior to those in many other rhetoric programs. The English Department at ISU has excellent multimedia facilities including state-of-the-art computer classrooms, numerous servers with high-end Web application development frameworks for students’ use, as well as multimedia suites available for graduate students. Our students work with the ISU Human-Computer Interaction Initiative and the Studio for New Media, as well as with the EServer. Collegiality The RPC program is known for a warm collegiality among graduate students and between graduate students and faculty members. Information for Applicants Applicants must have completed a bachelor’s degree prior to their first semester in either program and must meet stated application preferences and English proficiency requirements (for nonnative speakers only) according to our How To Apply information. The only way to be considered for admission is to complete an application. Application Deadline: January 5 (fall entry for both PhD and MA programs); October 15 (spring entry only available for the MA program). Financial Aid The majority of our students are funded through graduate assistantships, which provide a full tuition waiver (PhD) or half tuition waiver (MA), a monthly stipend for teaching courses or for conducting research, and health insurance benefits. Applications for assistantships are part of the graduate admission application process. College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Department of English Iowa State University Department of English 203 Ross Hall 527 Farmhouse Ln. Iowa State University Ames IA 50011-1054 engldept@iastate.edu 515-294-2180 phone 515-294-6814 fax Twitter Facebook Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...