Department of Nuclear Engineering About NE Academics Admission News & Events Faculty & Staff Research Outreach & Engagement Nuclear Reactor Program Toggle navigation About NE Academics Admission News & Events Faculty & Staff Research Outreach & Engagement Nuclear Reactor Program Read our latest newsletter NE News NE Staff Member Award of Excellence Recipient May 31, 2022 William Dawn Successfully Defends PhD Dissertation May 12, 2022 CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2022! May 5, 2022 Read More News Upcoming Events Mon 20 Juneteenth observed; no classes June 20 Wed 22 Last day of classes June 22 Thu 23 Final Examinations (June 23-24) June 23 - June 24 View More Events NC State Nuclear Engineering has a unique history. We are home to the 1st nuclear engineering curriculum & non-governmental research reactor. And we’re currently ranked 3rd by the US News & World Report. Our Expertise is Diverse Major Focus Area Reactor Systems Engineering Radiation Interactions and Detection Plasma Science and Engineering Nuclear Fuel and Materials Crosscutting/Application Areas Modeling and Simulation Nuclear Waste Management Nuclear Security and Non-Proliferation Nuclear Reactor Program Health Physics Why Nuclear Engineering at NC State? Degree Offerings Undergraduate B.S. Nuclear Engineering Minor in Nuclear Engineering Minor in Health Physics Apply to our Undergraduate Program Graduate Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s Program Health Physics Graduate Certificate Nuclear Nonproliferation Science and Policy Graduate Certificate Master of Nuclear Engineering (MNE) & Master of Science in Nuclear Engineering (MS) PhD in Nuclear Engineering Online Degrees Master of Nuclear Engineering (MNE) Apply to our Graduate Program Got Questions? Need Answers? Frequently asked questions page for graduate students Contact Lisa Marshall, Director of Outreach with other questions Broaden Your World Student Organizations: Students can choose from our department organizations or other College of Engineering student organizations to network and learn outside the classroom. Co-op Experience: Engineering students can gain hands-on job experience while pursuing their degrees, and get paid for it, through the Cooperative Education Program. Study Abroad: Engineering is a global enterprise. Many employers are looking for graduates with second languages and international exposure. Study abroad can make that happen. Giving Donations help the NE department evolve and keep pace with the latest technology, while giving our students the skills, global awareness and sense of responsibility they need to make a difference in the world. Consider supporting the department today. Follow our Give Now link to donate to the Nuclear Engineering Enhancement Fund. Give Now Ready to Join the Wolfpack? Apply to NC State Search Our Job Openings Recent Posts NE Staff Member Award of Excellence Recipient William Dawn Successfully Defends PhD Dissertation CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2022! Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Contact and Directions Giving Department of Nuclear Engineering North Carolina State University | Raleigh, NC | 27695-7909 © 2022 NC State University | Log in | Accessibility | Privacy Back to Top