Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Leadership and Military Science Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Leadership and Military Science Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Visit Request More Info Leadership and Military Science Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Leadership and Military Science Combine academic excellence with Army leadership experience to make yourself highly marketable to employers in a competitive marketplace with the Undergraduate Certificate in Leadership and Military Science in Temple’s College of Education and Human Development. This 14-credit undergraduate certificate is intended for Temple University undergraduate students who participate in the U.S. Army Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) program. Students within the ROTC program have already invested a large portion of time in and out of the classroom to prepare themselves to lead soldiers, and the Undergraduate Certificate in Leadership and Military Science affords them the opportunity to hone and expand those skills. Delivery Method All courses are offered in-person at Temple University’s Main Campus. Classes & Curriculum You must complete 12 credit hours (four courses) in order to earn the certificate. Topics covered in the curriculum include a leadership lab and practical applications of leadership and management. See a full list of Leadership and Military Science Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Educational Leadership EdD Educational Leadership and Policy MEd with a concentration in Urban Education Related Graduate Certificates Data-Driven Decision Making Diversity Leadership Institutional Effectiveness Instructional Learning Technology Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors A faculty program coordinator provides academic support and helps students navigate the certificate program. Program Contact Shanta Hattikudur, associate professor of instruction, is the program contact for the Leadership and Military Science Undergraduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-6101 Email: shanta@temple.edu Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-LMS-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Leadership and Military Science Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info