Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »One Stop »Student Life »Sports and Recreation Student Guide to Help and Resources: One Stop Shop Home Academics Majors and Programs Academic Support See all of Academics Paying for College Financial Resources Jobs See all of Paying for College Student Life Get Involved Living Options Sports and Recreation Arts and Culture Diversity and Multicultural Student Affairs K-State Student Union Events Graduation and Beyond See all of Student Life Health and Safety Health Safety See all of Health and Safety Technology Designated Access See all of Technology Student Life home Get Involved Living Options Sports and Recreation Arts and Culture K-State Student Union Events Graduation and Beyond Vice President for Student Life Kansas State University 122 Anderson Hall Manhattan, KS 66506-0102 785-532-6237 vpsl@k-state.edu Sports and recreation Regular physical activity not only keeps you healthy and happy, but can be a lot of fun. Kansas State University offers many ways to stay in shape, learn a new sport or simply cheer as loud as possible. Recreation center Manhattan campus: The Chester E. Peters Recreation Complex on the Manhattan campus offers 10,000 of weight and fitness area, as well as indoor tracks, basketball courts and more. More than 5,000 people use the rec complex every day. Salina campus: The Student Life Center offers many of the same amenities in Salina, including a full size basketball court, free weights, aerobic and fitness classes, an indoor running track, and various other amenities. Sport clubs Compete with teams from other universities on non-varsity club teams. K-State is home to nearly 30 club teams, including everything from dodgeball to water polo. Intramural sports Play sports you enjoy on campus without the pressure of varsity sports. K-State's intramural program hosts more than 60 individual, dual and team sports. Competition is divided into men's, women's, co-rec and living group divisions. K-State athletics Be part of the best student section in the Big 12 Conference! Learn more about how to purchase your football and men's basketball student pass. Admission to all home baseball, soccer, tennis, track and field, volleyball and women's basketball contests is free with a valid K-State student ID. For the latest updates on the Cats, follow @kstatesports on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Snapchat or visit kstatesports.com. Find help Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 10/19/21