Skip to site alert. Skip to content Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research Newsletter News Events Videos People Search About Us About Us Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Initiatives and Committees Implementation Science COVID-19 Research Initiative Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Opioid Crisis Response Learning Health System Initiative Services and Programs Our Impact Our Impact A Model for Collaboration Testimonials Publications People Impact Stories Narratives of Discovery People Irving Scholars Mentor of the Year Award Pilot Awardees Scholars, Trainees, and Fellows Join a Study Join a Study What is Health Research? Research Registries and Studies Community Health Resources You are here Home > About Us > Initiatives and Committees Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees Implementation Science COVID-19 Research Initiative Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Opioid Crisis Response Learning Health System Initiative News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Initiatives and Committees Initiatives The Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research oversees several initiatives that are collaborative efforts with partners across Columbia University and our upper Manhattan community. Implementation Science Initiative Implementation Science efforts at the Irving Institute focus on building awareness, providing education, and advancing research, both locally and nationally. Implementation Science Initiative Learning Health System Initiative Leveraging CU and NYP resources to optimize our health system’s performance by enhancing the patient experience, improving population health, and improving the work life of health care providers. Learning Health System Initiative Committees Internal to the Irving Institute, we establish long-term committees in response to immediate needs as they emerge in our communities, and across campus. Working with our leadership, faculty and staff we organize and activate projects to effect change. COVID-19 Research The Irving Institute COVID-19 Research Committee - a rapid, forward-looking response strategy to accelerate translational COVID-19 research. COVID-19 Research Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee The mission of the DEI Committee is to advance health equity through program-wide efforts to remove obstacles impacting healthcare, clinical research, and an inclusive healthcare workforce. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Previous Development Projects Through our initiatives and committees, the Institute harnesses the power of shared resources and partnerships to address ever-evolving needs. The marker of success is when these initiatives grow beyond their initial development phases and mature into stand-alone institutional pillars. Opioid Crisis Response The Irving Institute fostered interdisciplinary collaborations among researchers, industry partners, and the community to implement new strategies around the opioid crisis. Opioid Crisis Response Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Services and Programs Our Impact Join a Study Contact Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Back to top