Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu About UofM Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About UofM General Information Accreditation Information Facts at a Glance History Key Administrators Mission, Vision and Strategic Plan Office of the President Traditions Video: History of the UofM Campus & Visitor Information Holiday Inn at the University of MemphisEvent CalendarUniversity of Memphis BookstoreUniversity of Memphis Campus MapCampus Safety Report (PDF)Career Services: on- and off-campus jobs and internshipsDirections to CampusMemphis AttractionsParking ServicesPolice ServicesRecreation CenterTesting CenterTranscriptsVisit Campus Helpful Information TOPdesk Service DeskCareer OpportunitiesMajors, Minors, Concentrations Virtual Tour Memphis Take a look inside some of our academic programs in our virtual tour of the campus. Home About UofM Accreditations Accreditations University-Wide The University of Memphis is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award bachelor's, first professional, master's, educational specialist, doctoral degrees, and graduate certificates. Questions about the accreditation of the University of Memphis may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC’s website (www.sacscoc.org). College of Arts and Sciences Chemistry B.A., B.S., B.S.Ch. American Chemical Society City and Regional Planning M.C.R.P. Planning Accreditation Board (American Planning Association, American Institute of Certified Planners, and the Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning) Computer Science (B.S.) Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology/ Computing Accreditation Commission ABET/CAC Health Administration M.H.A. Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education Public Administration M.P.A. National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration Clinical Psychology Ph.D. American Psychological Association School Psychology Ed.S. National Association of School Psychologists Council for the Accreditation of Educator Professionals School Psychology Ph.D. American Psychological Association Social Work B.A., M.S.W. Council on Social Work Education College of Business and Economics All Programs B.B.A., M.B.A., M.A., M.S., Ph.D. Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business--International College of Communication and Fine Arts Advertising B.A. Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communications Architecture M. Arch. National Architectural Accreditation Board Art B.A., B.F.A., M.A., M.F.A. National Association of Schools of Art and Design Interior Design B.F.A. Council for Interior Design Accreditation Journalism B.A. Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communications Music B.M. DMA Conducting/PHD Music Education National Association of Schools of Music Public Relations B.A. Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communications Theatre National Association of Schools of Theatre College of Education Counseling and Personnel Services Ph.D. American Psychological Association Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs Teacher Education B.S.Ed., M.Ed., M.A.T. National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education Rehabilitation Education M.S.Ed. Council on Rehabilitation Education College of Engineering B.S.B.E., B.S.C.E., B.S.E.E., B.S.M.E., B.S.E.T. ABET, Inc. School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Au.D, M.A., Ph.D. American Speech-Language-Hearing Association Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology College of Health Sciences B.S., B.S.Ed., M.S. School of Law J.D. American Bar Association College of Nursing B.S.N. Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education Independent Programs University Honors Program Transitional Academic Studies Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/18/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.