Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Clemson University Awards Clemson University Awards Board of Trustees Award for Staff Excellence The Board of Trustees Award for Staff Excellence was established to recognize the outstanding achievements of Clemson University’s classified and unclassified staff members in their roles as employees and their work for the University. Employees (not departments, areas or programs) are recognized for international, national, regional, state, county-wide and University achievements for the previous calendar year. An award from a Clemson University college, department or unit is eligible for Board recognition. Any permanent employee who receives external recognition from an organization or governing body at the county or regional level and above is also eligible for recognition. The Thomas Green Clemson Award for Excellence This award was established by the Office of the Provost in 1999 to honor outstanding faculty and staff who have made significant contributions to academic life at Clemson. Nominations are accepted throughout the year. The Thomas Green Clemson Award for Excellence Nomination Form The President's Commission on the Status of Women Outstanding Woman Award The commission annually honors individuals who have made outstanding contributions to improve the status of women at Clemson University in several categories. These include: academic faculty, classified staff, graduate student, undergraduate student and distinguished contributor. Completed nomination packets should be sent to the Women's Commission, Box 19 — Second Floor, 603 Strode Tower, Clemson, SC 29634-5007. The Frank A. Burtner Award for Excellence in Advising This award is funded in honor of Dr. Burtner, who served Clemson University for many years as a professor and adviser to student organizations. Nomination forms and letters describing the contributions of the nominee to the development of students in leadership, devotion to duty and service to students should be forwarded to the Office of Student Development Services in room 707 of the University Union. The award includes a cash prize for the recipient. Centennial Professorship Award (given every other year) The Centennial Professorship is a rotating award bestowed by the Clemson University faculty upon an outstanding colleague. The professorship is supported by an endowment jointly funded by the Clemson University faculty and their friends and a matching grant from the Commission on Higher Education. Nominations are made by submitting a curriculum vitae and supporting materials to the faculty senate president. James E. Bostic Jr. Diversity and Inclusive Excellence Award The Chief Diversity Office established the Diversity and Inclusive Excellence Award to recognize faculty, staff and students for displaying an exceptional commitment to fostering an environment in which diversity is understood, valued, respected and appreciated. This award is presented annually to individuals who have made an outstanding contribution to creating an inclusive and welcoming community at Clemson University by implementing an initiative in the classroom, workplace, or campus community that fosters relationships that advance acceptance, appreciation, respect, diversity and inclusive excellence. The award includes beautiful vase and a $1,000 cash award. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Awards for Excellence in Service Three awards will be given, one in each of the following categories: Clemson University Student, Clemson University Employee (faculty or staff) and Clemson Community Member (Anderson, Oconee or Pickens counties). Persons being nominated for one of these awards should exhibit excellence in service in one or more of the following areas involved in actualizing the dreams of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.: Service to Clemson University or the surrounding community Commitment to diversity and community-building Advancement of the African-American community Civil rights advocacy Service above and beyond direct employment The recipient of the student award will receive a $250 cash stipend. The winners of the Clemson University faculty/staff award and the Clemson community member award will be given a grant in the amount of $250, which will be given to the campus or community organization of the recipient’s choice. Each recipient will also receive a personal plaque, and his/her name will be placed on a perpetual plaque that will be hung in the office of the Vice President for Student Affairs. Nominations are accepted in the fall. If you have questions or concerns please contact the Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs at 864-656-2161 or send an email to mlkawrd@clemson.edu. Home Related Links Administration Board of Trustees Diversity Office 2020 Road Map 2020Forward Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram