Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academics at the UW Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Research at the UW Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving Admissions Admissions Undocumented student resources Undocumented student frequently asked questions: Applying to the UW Undocumented student frequently asked questions: Applying to the UW Whether you’re applying to the University of Washington as a freshman or transfer student, this page will provide you with answers to the most frequently asked questions undocumented students have about the application process. I am undocumented, can I apply to the UW? Yes, prospective students can apply to all three UW campuses regardless of their immigration status. There is no federal or state law that prohibits undocumented students’ admissions to public or private universities in Washington state. All prospective students will be reviewed under the same admissions criteria regardless of status. Do undocumented students qualify for in-state tuition? In 2003, the Washington state Legislature approved House Bill 1079 to allow eligible undocumented students to be considered as “residents” for purposes of higher education, which permits them to pay in-state tuition rates at state colleges and universities. You qualify for HB 1079 if you have lived in Washington state at least three years, and if you meet one of the following requirements: You graduated from a Washington state high school and you completed your senior year of high school in Washington. You earned the equivalent of a high school diploma, such as a GED. Learn more about HB 1079: https://depts.washington.edu/reach/apply-to-uw/hb-1079undocumented-students/ Are undocumented students eligible to receive financial aid? While undocumented students do not qualify for student aid from the federal government, Washington’s Real Hope Act has expanded eligibility for the Washington State Need Grant to eligible undocumented students who meet the program’s eligibility requirements and the following residency criteria: Have graduated from a Washington high school or obtained a GED. Have lived in Washington for three years prior to, and continuously since, earning the high school diploma or equivalent. Sign an affidavit (written promise) to file an application to become a permanent resident of the United States when eligible to apply.* *Students granted deferred action for childhood arrival (DACA) must also complete and sign the affidavit. If you are eligible, you can complete the WASFA application to be considered for State Need Grant. How do I get started with my application? Visit our admissions page to learn more about the application process. If you have additional questions, contact admissions counselor Heber Molina: molinah@uw.edu – 206-685-3033 University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA