Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Admissions and Arrival » Apply to UC » Transfer to UC Set Navigation title in component Cost and Finances Apply to UC Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Transfer to the University of Cincinnati The University of Cincinnati welcomes international transfer students to our campus. Students who have attended a college or university after secondary school are considered transfer students. Receive admission to UC Before you can transfer to UC, you must apply to a program and receive acceptance. If you will be transferring as an undergraduate student, talk to UC International Admissions about this process. Complete a TOEFL, IELTS or ELS level 112 to demonstrate English proficiency. Complete all admissions requirements for the UC degree program. Receive an acceptance letter from the admissions office. Confirm the admissions offer. Instructions should be included in your acceptance letter. Additional Requirements for Undergraduate Students Provide proof of financial support International students are required to submit documents showing their financial support using an eForm on iBearcatsGlobal, UC International's online system for international students. You must demonstrate that you have financial support for all years of study for your degree. You will be able to submit these documents using the Sources of Financial Support eForm in the Pre-Arrival Checklist in iBearcatsGlobal. You will be sent an email with log in credentials within 72 hours of being admitted. Please do not email these documents to us. Check our estimated expenses page to determine the amount you have to certify. Any UC scholarships can be deducted from this amount, but you need to provide proof of the scholarship There is no deadline for submitting financial certification forms, but you will not be issued a Certificate of Eligibility (I-20 / DS-2019) until they are received. You will need to get the I-20/DS-2019 in time to apply for your visa and arrive for your intended semester of study. Submit your financial documents as soon as possible, but no sooner than 6 months prior to your start date at UC. When completing the Financial Certification Form, also linked in the Sources of Financial Support eForm in iBearcatsGlobal, clearly state your name as it appears in your passport. Financial Documentation Requirements All financial documents should be dated and cannot be more than 6 months old. Documents can include: bank statements certificates of deposit letters/statements from sponsors that show how much they receive annually from employment letters or emails from UC departments about scholarships/assistantships information from governments about sponsorships bank/education loan award letters letters of support from current overseas employers All documents should state in English who the account owner is, the current balance, and the currency being used. Deposits stated on the bank statements/certificate of deposits do not need to be frozen. Scholarships Unless otherwise stated in the award letter, UC scholarships and assistantships that you have been awarded are considered renewable as long as you maintain good academic standing. For example, if you have been awarded a UC scholarship for $10,000.00, you can include this in your estimates as a source of support for each year of study. Please make sure to upload a copy of your scholarship with your other financial documents. Sponsors A sponsor can be anyone: parents, other family members, friends, or agencies. A sponsor only needs to show that they have the first year of support of their intended annual support on deposit. So, for example, if they are committed to providing you $10,000.00 per year, they only need to show that they have $10,000.00 on deposit at this time. It is presumed they understand, and are committed to, their financial obligation to you and to raise this amount for each year of study for you. The sponsor will need to complete page two of our Financial Certification form, linked to the Sources of Financial Support eForm in iBearcatsGlobal, and provide their financial documents to you with this form. Personal Funds “Personal funds” is any amount that you, the student, has on deposit in your name. Because you will not be in a position to be able to work or raise additional funding while studying in the US, your personal funds will be divided by the number of years that we estimate it will take for you to complete your studies. For example, if you have $20,0000.00 on deposit and you are applying for a two year Master’s degree, then you have $10,0000.00 available for each year of study. Loans Bank/Education Loan awards are usually awarded as one lump sum. Therefore, the amount awarded will be divided by the number of years we estimate it will take for you to complete your degree. The letters must state that the loan has been awarded. Letters that state that you have only applied will not be accepted. Letters that state the loan is provisional/conditional will need to state what those provisions/conditions are. If there is anyone’s name on the loan other than your own, they should complete the affidavit of support form. Room and Board Affidavit If you will be living with someone in the Cincinnati area that will provide you free room and board you can also submit the Room and Board Affidavit (which is linked in the Sources of Financial Support eForm in iBearcatsGlobal). Submission of this form will eliminate the need to show, in financial terms, the cost of living expenses associated with the I-20. Do not submit this form unless you have someone in the US that you will be living with while you are studying. Review Period When you submit your financial documents for review, it will take no longer than five business days to review and provide you feedback. If your documentation does not qualify for an I-20 to be issued, you will be sent an email explaining why. You can then make changes to your documentation and resubmit them using the Sources of Financial Support eForm in iBearcatsGlobal in the pre-arrival checklist. Transfer your SEVIS record In order to officially transfer to UC, you will also need to transfer your SEVIS record. First, ask your current institution to release your SEVIS record. Tell the office that we are listed in SEVIS as: University of Cincinnati-University of Cincinnati (if admitted to our main campus), University of Cincinnati-UC Blue Ash College (if admitted to our Blue Ash branch campus), or University of Cincinnati-UC Clermont College (if admitted to our Clermont branch campus). Then, submit a SEVIS Transfer-In Request form using our iBearcatsGlobal system. Login using the "Limited Services" section. You will need your UCID number and date of birth. Under "Admission and Orientation," you will find the SEVIS Transfer-In Request form. This form requires you to upload copies of your passport, I-20 and I-94. You also need to list your current school's international student advisor, so they can release your SEVIS record to UC. Students transferring from English Language Services (ELS) will list Emily Bensman (email ebensman@els.edu) as the current school advisor. Indicate if you will travel outside the US before coming to UC. Complete the pre-arrival checklist Once your transfer is approved, you will be issued an I-20 for the University of Cincinnati. You will also receive information on completing our pre-arrival checklist, coming to Cincinnati and preparing for orientation and check-in. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top