Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Community Brown students, faculty and staff challenge and support each other within a respectful and diverse campus community. Breadcrumb Home Life at Brown Sub Navigation In This Section Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events Community Brown students, faculty and staff challenge and support each other within a respectful and diverse campus community. At Brown, you'll find a community of the brightest and most exceptional students and scholars from across the globe. We are a community guided by shared values, an unyielding dedication to diversity, equity and inclusion, and a fundamental commitment to supporting one another. We are a campus where students, faculty and staff discuss, learn about and debate difficult issues, building understanding of important challenges facing society. We are a learning community strengthened by the expression of a full range of views informed by a far-reaching set of life experiences. Student Voices Jenell Grier-Spratley Class of 2019 In her classes, Jenell Grier-Spratley is learning about systemic inequity and injustice — and gaining the experiences and tools to effect change. Kevin Nguyen Doctoral Candidate, Public Health Propelled by his own experience navigating the health care system, graduate student Kevin Nguyen is using his research to build more equitable health care policy. Rainbow Chen Class of 2021 At Brown, Rainbow Chen is able to combine her love of learning with her commitment to social change and making a difference. Anthony Cloyd Medical student Anthony Cloyd had never left Nebraska until he came to Brown—his dream school. Show More Diversity, Equity and Inclusion At Brown, our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion is fundamentally critical to the University’s mission of education and advancement of knowledge. Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (PDF) Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Slavery and Justice Report Straight from the Source Hear from current students about the warm and collaborative Brown community. How do you feel a sense of belonging at Brown? Haley Wong Close How do you feel a sense of belonging at Brown? Best thing about being on Brown campus? Stephanie Chan Close Best thing about being on Brown campus? What is the community like at Brown? Lauren Brown Close What is the community like at Brown? Why did you choose Brown? Yifeng Cai Close Why did you choose Brown? "Brown is…." William Irving Close "Brown is…." Community-focused Centers, Programs and Offices Across the Brown campus, a nexus of organizations and spaces encourage all students, faculty and staff to find a sense of belonging, build relationships across differences and develop leadership and life skills to thrive intellectually and personally at Brown and beyond. Brown Center for Students of Color The Brown Center for Students of Color encourages students to build meaningful relationships across differences, develop racial and ethnic consciousness, and enact change at Brown and beyond. Visit Page Open details for Brown Center for Students of Color Brown-RISD Hillel Hillel, the center for Jewish life on campus, is an integral part of campus social, cultural, educational, political and religious life. Visit Page Open details for Brown-RISD Hillel Global Brown Center for International Students The Global Brown Center for International Students (GBC) develops programming to support and engage our undergraduate and graduate international community. Visit Page Open details for Global Brown Center for International Students LGBTQ Center The LGBTQ Center works to create and maintain an open, safe, and inclusive environment for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and questioning students, faculty, and staff, their families and friends, and the campus community at large. Visit Page Open details for LGBTQ Center Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life The Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life's mission is ensuring that a diversity of beliefs have voice and vitality throughout the University community. Visit Page Open details for Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Office of Military-Affiliated Students Brown has been designated as a Silver Medal Military Friendly School. The University offers ROTC opportunities in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force. Visit Page Open details for Office of Military-Affiliated Students Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender The Sarah Doyle Center offers programs and services for all members of the Brown community, and is a site for research into and exploration of gender issues that extend into and beyond the classroom. Visit Page Open details for Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Undocumented, First-Generation College and Low-Income Student Center A communal, learning, and advocacy center for members of the Brown community who identify with the undocumented, first-generation college and/or low-income student experience (U-FLi). Visit Page Open details for Undocumented, First-Generation College and Low-Income Student Center Resources for the Brown Community Office of the Vice President for Campus Life Student Support Services Graduate Student Resources Medical School Student Life Student Conduct and Community Standards Reaffirming University Values Series University Events Residential Life Brown Speak Ask students at Brown about the University community, and you're likely to hear some of the following: DIAP: Brown's pioneering diversity and inclusion action plan launched in 2016. TWTP: The Third World Transition Program welcomes new students with community-building programs that center the student of color experience. WPC: Women’s Peer Counselors talk to first-year students about sexism, gender issues and sexuality. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Community Open details for Community Bookmark this Page