Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Student Financial Services Menu About Leadership Contact Us Search the Site Events News Billing & Payment View & Pay Bill Student Login Authorized User Login Payment Due Dates Financial Aid Refunds Authorize Access to Bill Understanding Financial Settlement Undergraduate, Graduate, and Seminary Law New Student Orientation Guide - Undergraduate New Student Orientation Guide - Graduate Online Programs Trimester Programs Quarter Programs Online MBA Master of Laws (LL.M.) Payment Plans Refunds Add/Drop Refunds Cancellation/Withdrawal Refunds Direct Deposit Title IV Credit Authorizations International Payments E-Bill System Security Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs Resources Forms E-Bill System BearWeb Student Financial Literacy Dining Services Housing Parking Services ID Cards Center for Global Engagement Student Success Center Education Tax Benefits Form 1098-T Private College 529 Plan Loan Collections Student Loan Repayment 101 Seminar Faculty & Staff Emergency Relief Funds (CARES Act, HEERF II, ARP/HEERF III) Student Financial Services Appointments Wintermester HEOA Student Consumer Information Student Conduct Code Financial Aid Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Graduate Online MBA MBA, CSD, MSW Law Seminary Summer Guaranteed Tuition Option Tuition Refund Insurance 2022-2023 Tuition Cost Online Programs Meal Plans Housing Optional Fees Affordability Planner Net Price Calculator Student Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance (COA) Types of Financial Aid Online Graduate Student Aid Scholarships Grants Work-Study Affordability Planner Maintaining Eligibility Drug Convictions and Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Award Guide Over Awards Financial Aid Timeline Graduate Student Financial Aid Timeline Helpful Links Financial Aid Videos - Get Answers 24/7 Videos - Baylor Financial Aid Return of Federal Funds Types of Financial Aid - Quick Chart Financial Aid Requirements FAQs Scholarships & Loans Scholarships Loans Baylor>Student Financial Services>Student Financial Aid>Types of Financial Aid>Work-Study Work-Study Federal Work-Study (FWS) FWS is a need-based financial aid program, and therefore requires that you file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) in order to be considered for the award. The amount of FWS a student is awarded represents eligibility for working on campus. Students who are offered FWS are not committed to a job or guaranteed a job on campus, but they receive priority to find and accept a job on campus during the first several weeks of the fall semester. For the 2019-2020 academic year, priority will be given to FWS eligible students through September 21, 2019. For the 2020-2021 academic year, priority will be given to FWS eligible students through September 19, 2020. The FWS award amount does NOT apply to charges billed by the university. Undergraduate and graduate students are offered Federal Work-Study if they demonstrate financial need beyond the amount of scholarships, grants and need-based loans they receive. Law students are not offered Federal Work-Study as part of the initial financial aid package, but will be reviewed for FWS eligibility upon request. (Law students are strongly discouraged by the Law School from working while enrolled.) Baylor also participates in the Texas College Work Study program. Learn more here. You can learn more about student employment and see the positions available at this time to currently enrolled students at Student Employment Selection and Awarding of Students Recipients must have submitted a valid FAFSA and meet all minimum eligibility requirements for recipients of Federal aid programs. For undergraduates, package if the student indicated an interest on the FAFSA or earned $200 or more via FWS in the preceding year. The award may range from $100 - $3,200 for academic year based on the student’s remaining need after scholarship, grant and Subsidized Direct Loan. Students will not receive a FWS offer exceeding their demonstrated financial need. For graduate students (excluding law students), package if the student indicated an interest in the program on the FAFSA or if the student earned $200 or more via FWS in the preceding year. The award may range from $100 to $3,200 based on the student’s remaining need after scholarship, grant and Subsidized Direct Loan. Students will not receive a FWS offer exceeding their demonstrated financial need. Law students are strongly discouraged by the Law School from working. Law students are not packaged with FWS but will be repackaged with FWS upon request. Larger amounts may be reviewed and awarded manually for an individual position held, depending on remaining need, pay rate, and number of hours worked. If larger amounts cannot be awarded due to lack of need, the student can still proceed to work, but will no longer be working under the FWS program, they will moved to University Work Study program once they have maxed their FWS award. Part-time and independent students are offered FWS based on the parameters above. Students will accept or decline the FWS offer in BearWeb (Student Information System, SIS). If a student originally rejects the Federal Work Study (FWS) award before reviewed for position and the Financial Aid Dept. has the capability to reinstate the award, the award will be reinstated automatically. If a student contacts the Financial Aid Dept. to cancel the Federal Work Study (FWS) award, the student will be ineligible to work in a Baylor University Work-Study approved position until the student chooses to have Federal Work Study reinstated. If a student contacts the Financial Aid Dept. to reduce the Federal Work Study (FWS) award, the student will only be allowed to work up to the adjusted amount, once the amount is hit, the student will need to terminate employment and will not be allowed to continue working until original amount is reinstated. In general, if the student makes any requests or changes to their award or Federal Work Study (FWS), the student is accepting the newly adjusted amount as the amount they will use. While if changes to the award statement that affects Federal Work Study made by the Financial Aid Department, such as a scholarship, there will be no impacts to the students employment. Video not supported. Video not supported. Additional Videos Student Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance (COA) Types of Financial Aid Online Graduate Student Aid Scholarships Grants Work-Study Affordability Planner Maintaining Eligibility Drug Convictions and Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Award Guide Over Awards Financial Aid Timeline Graduate Student Financial Aid Timeline Helpful Links Financial Aid Videos - Get Answers 24/7 Videos - Baylor Financial Aid Return of Federal Funds Types of Financial Aid - Quick Chart Financial Aid Requirements FAQs VERIFICATION PAY YOUR BILL CONTACT US LOCATION Limited Access to Clifton Robinson Tower Financial Aid, Student Accounts and One Stop (first floor) are open to walk-in visitors, however we encourage students to reach us via phone, contact us form or virtual office visit while a construction project occurs at the Clifton Robinson Tower. Parking is very limited. More information about how to contact us can be found here. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Student Financial Services Student Financial Accounts One Bear Place #97048 Waco, TX 76798-7048 Student Financial Aid One Bear Place #97028 Waco, TX 76798-7028 Student Financial Accounts: 254.710.2311 Financial Aid: 254.710.2611 Contact Us GDPR Privacy Notice Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Leadership Contact Us Search the Site Events News Billing & Payment View & Pay Bill Student Login Authorized User Login Payment Due Dates Financial Aid Refunds Authorize Access to Bill Understanding Financial Settlement Undergraduate, Graduate, and Seminary Law New Student Orientation Guide - Undergraduate New Student Orientation Guide - Graduate Online Programs Trimester Programs Quarter Programs Online MBA Master of Laws (LL.M.) Payment Plans Refunds Add/Drop Refunds Cancellation/Withdrawal Refunds Law & LL.M. Cancellation & Withdrawal Policies Direct Deposit Title IV Credit Authorizations International Payments E-Bill System Security Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs Resources Forms E-Bill System BearWeb Student Financial Literacy Dining Services Housing Parking Services ID Cards Center for Global Engagement Student Success Center Education Tax Benefits Form 1098-T Private College 529 Plan Loan Collections Student Loan Repayment 101 Seminar Faculty & Staff Emergency Relief Funds (CARES Act, HEERF II, ARP/HEERF III) Student Financial Services Appointments Wintermester HEOA Student Consumer Information Student Conduct Code Financial Aid Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Graduate Online MBA MBA, CSD, MSW Law LL.M. Tuition & Fees Seminary Summer Seminary Summer Guaranteed Tuition Option Tuition Refund Insurance 2022-2023 Tuition Cost Online Programs Meal Plans Housing Optional Fees Affordability Planner Net Price Calculator Student Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance (COA) Types of Financial Aid Online Graduate Student Aid Scholarships Departmental Scholarship Grants Work-Study Affordability Planner Maintaining Eligibility Drug Convictions and Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Award Guide Over Awards Financial Aid Timeline Graduate Student Financial Aid Timeline Helpful Links Financial Aid Videos - Get Answers 24/7 Videos - Baylor Financial Aid Federal Aid, Work-Study, And Alternative Loans Financial Aid Application Process Scholarship Options International Student Aid Return of Federal Funds Types of Financial Aid - Quick Chart Financial Aid Requirements FAQs Scholarships & Loans Scholarships Loans