Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Genetic Testing for Parkinson’s Disease: What You Need to Know March 30, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Parkinson’s disease is the second most common neurodegenerative condition after Alzheimer’s, with nearly one million Americans living with the disease and ten million people affected worldwide. With genetic testing now available, people with Parkinson’s and their families are increasingly turning to testing to learn more about their disease and if their children are at risk. Which test to take and how to interpret the results, though, can be confusing. “Getting genetic testing can be useful, but the information can be overwhelming or even misleading,” says neurologist Roy Alcalay, MD, an expert in the treatment of Parkinson’s at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian who also studies the genetics of the disease. “That why it’s best to couple any testing with genetic counseling. Getting genetic testing is pretty profound, because people receive a lot of potentially positive or negative information. Without a genetic counselor to prepare you and explain the results, I would advise against genetic testing,” says Alcalay. Tests vary The genetics of Parkinson’s disease is complex, and risk cannot be determined by looking at the presence or absence of a single gene. Genetic testing for Parkinson’s emerged in the 2000s after the identification of the first known disease-causing variants. Currently, researchers think about 90 genes may be contribute to Parkinson’s disease. But tests vary widely, complicating interpretation and counseling. Clinical laboratories worldwide currently offer more than 500 unique clinical genetic tests for Parkinson’s, with tests examining anywhere from five to 62 genes, according to a recent study by Alcalay, neurologist Karen Marder, MD, a Parkinson's expert at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian, and other colleagues. Many tests include genes whose connection to Parkinson’s is still controversial among scientists. “This makes it very confusing both for people with Parkinson’s and for providers, because if one company examines five genes and another examines 62, are they offering the same product? Is the result the same, and what do you do with it?” Marder says. Simplifying Future Tests The complex testing landscape for Parkinson's may be simplified in the future: Alcalay and Marder belong to a new Parkinson’s Disease Gene Curation Expert Panel that is in the process of developing an expert consensus about the genes that cause Parkinson’s and which should be included in genetic testing. Where to start? One way to access testing is to join the PDGENEration study, a flagship initiative of the Parkinson’s Foundation, for which Alcalay is the lead investigator. Study participants are provided pre- and post-test counseling and genetic testing for mutations in the most common Parkinson’s genes. The study is designed to help accelerate clinical trials of gene-specific therapies and improve patient care. Alcalay says about 3,500 people have already completed the study, which can accommodate 15,000 people. Direct-to-consumer genetic testing is also available but may not involve a genetic counselor to prepare test-takers and interpret the results. “Before taking a genetic test, it’s important for counselors to help people imagine the worst-case scenario, so they can process how they might feel,” says Marder. A genetic counselor also explains the ambiguity associated with test results. “Just because somebody has a genetic mutation associated with Parkinson’s, that doesn’t necessarily mean they will develop Parkinson’s,” Marder says. Factors such as diet and exercise could possibly postpone development of the disease. Many people are eager to have genetic testing, including children of Parkinson’s patients who want to know their risk. Marder and Alcalay know of several who started the testing process but chose not to receive results after meeting with the genetic counselor. “The family dynamics can be quite nuanced. Some parents with Parkinson’s undergo testing, but then are faced with a decision about giving their children unpleasant news. Or a child who learns she did not inherit a parent’s Parkinson’s gene may feel conflicted about sharing that with an affected family member,” Marder adds. “Take your time making a decision about testing, because once you have that information, you can’t take it back.” References Roy Alcalay, MD, is associate professor of neurology at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and an attending physician at NewYork-Presbyterian. Karen Marder, MD, is the Sally Kerlin Professor of Neurology at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and an attending physician NewYork-Presbyterian. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top