Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Graduate Admissions Future Students Readmission International School of Law Undergraduate Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact International Students Getting Started ISSHousing OptionsAcademic Programs Apply for Admission Admission RequirementsResidency InformationEVEAApplication DeadlineAssistantshipsApply Now! What to Expect AcknowledgementApplication ReviewAdmission Decision After Acceptance I-20 and VisaArriving in the U.S.Visit the CampusISSRegistrationID CardParkingFee Payment International Undergraduate Take Action Apply Now! Graduate School Degree Programs Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Graduate Admissions International Students Welcome Prospective Student! The University of Memphis believes that the presence of international students on campus enriches the educational environment for all. The University of Memphis is authorized under Federal law to enroll non-immigrant alien students on the F-1 student visa. We accept only students with the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree. Prospective students can apply here. A non-refundable application and processing fee of sixty dollars U.S. (U.S. $60.00) is required of every international applicant, unless previously paid. Payment of the application fee is by credit card. For admission to a degree program, internationals who are just beginning their application processes should allow at least four months for necessary documents to be processed by the appropriate degree program and the Graduate Admissions office. All test scores and credential evaluations must be on file in Graduate Admissions (FedEx Institute of Technology Building, Suite 201) at least four months before the desired enrollment date. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure full consideration. Applicants will be selected on a competitive basis and, therefore, admission may not be granted to all applicants who meet only the minimum requirements. Some departments require higher standards or additional items such as portfolios, proficiency examinations, auditions, etc. For steps regarding how to obtain your I-20 please click here. Please note that there are additional admission requirements for international students. When Graduate Admissions receives your application materials, an official file is established and reviewed. Your requested department then reviews your application and makes an admissions decision. You will be notified as soon as a decision has been reached. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/1/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.