Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Town residents, University students and staff celebrate Martin Luther King holiday by Daniel Day, Office of Communications Jan. 17, 2017, 11:50 a.m. Town of Princeton residents and Princeton University students and staff gathered on campus Monday, Jan. 16, for a community breakfast to celebrate the memory and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. "I stand here today to tell everyone that we are one community, that we have more in common than we actually realize," said Princeton Councilman Lance Liverman, the featured speaker. The program at the Carl A. Fields Center for Equality and Cultural Understanding drew nearly 150 people and included an up-tempo performance by the Unity Choir of Princeton's First Baptist Church. Town of Princeton residents and students and staff of the University gathered Monday, Jan. 16, for a community breakfast on campus in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Princeton Councilman Lance Liverman, the featured speaker, addressed the importance of community. Photos by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Liverman, who grew up in Princeton, reflected on his experiences in the town over the years, from being bussed as an elementary school student in the 1960s to working with community groups to help at-risk youth in recent years. "We must now instill in our children what it means to work with and respect everyone," Liverman said. "We must teach our children that in order to succeed, we must sometimes feel a little uncomfortable." Liverman cited the inspiration of King and quoted from the civil right leader's "I Have A Dream" speech and decried "the bickering and mean spirit" of today's political climate in Washington, D.C. Members of the Unity Choir from Princeton’s First Baptist Church react with smiles as they hear applause from the audience at the completion of one of the songs they performed. Liverman was introduced by University Vice President and Secretary Robert Durkee, who noted that the program was being held in the Carl Fields Center, named for "a man who played a singular role in bringing diversity and inclusion to our campus, and in promoting ties between our students and the community." Fields was a Princeton dean who was the first African American to hold such a high-ranking post at an Ivy League school. He died in 1998. Liverman noted that in previous years he was a regular attendee at the King Day celebration that the University held in Richardson Auditorium. This year, Princeton began observing Martin Luther King Day as a University holiday, so that event was changed to the more informal community breakfast. Nearly 150 people attended the event at the Carl A. Fields Center for Equality and Cultural Understanding on the Princeton campus. Related Stories MLK Day community breakfast will be held Read more King Day celebrates music's inspirational power Read more Reflections on truth and compassion mark Martin Luther King Jr. Day celebration Read more Fellowship and social justice highlighted at Martin Luther King Jr. Day celebration Read more Moses calls for equality in education at King Day celebration Read more MLK Day program to be held at Arts Council of Princeton Read more Hope and achievement mark MLK Day celebration Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice