Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> About the Libraries >> Giving to FSU Libraries Giving to FSU Libraries Nearly every Florida State University student utilizes the state-of-the-art, expert services of the Florida State University Libraries. With your support, we can continue to expand our world-class offerings, purchase additional books and journals and make more technological resources available to everyone in the FSU community. Your gift strengthens the vital center of scholarly life at the University. "Nobody graduates from a library, but nobody graduates without one." - Anonymous University Libraries impact every University constituent, whether undergraduate or graduate student, faculty or visiting scholar. We support and enhance intellectual discovery. Giving Opportunities Support a Library initiative Libraries are for everyone: University Libraries is focused on the success of all its constituents, from students to faculty and staff, scholars and guests. With a gift to the general fund, you can help provide technology, collections, staffing, special events, and all the activities that enhance learning and make FSU a leader in scholarship and student success. Library Development Fund: F06478 The Heritage Museum: The Heritage Museum, located in the Werkmeister Room of Dodd Hall, is the public face for FSU’s rich history. It is where students, alumni, families, and community members can go to be immersed in FSU’s story. Additional funding will allow the Museum to be open expanded hours, maintain updated exhibits, upgrade lighting, and more display cases. A gift to the Heritage Museum Fund is a gift to preserve and protect FSU's history. The Heritage Fund FO8319S Undergraduates Rule in “The Learning District”: The Learning District in Strozier library offers tutoring with a focus on challenging classes, especially in STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) disciplines. Tutoring is offered late at night when student demand is greatest. Late Night Library Fund: F08314 FSU Libraries Textbook Fund: The FSU Libraries Textbook fund aims to alleviate the costs of course materials for students who demonstrate financial need. FSU Libraries Textbook Fund F08272 Florida Book Awards: The most comprehensive state book awards program in the nation. The Florida Book Awards recognizes and celebrates the best books written by and about the Sunshine State. Florida Book Awards F08116 Special Collections: FSU Special Collections is home to world-class collections including the papers of Nobel Laureate Paul Dirac, John M. Shaw Childhood in Poetry Collection, and the Napoleon and the French Revolution Collection. Endowed funds support visiting scholars and digitization projects. Libraries Special Collections Fund F07711 Start a New Fund: University Libraries are a great place to invest in academics at FSU. Here you can support staff excellence, world-class collections, round-the-clock access to research material, safe spaces for study and intellectual pursuits. Contact us to create your own investment in FSU with University Libraries. How to Give There are many ways to support the Florida State University Libraries. For more information please contact: Jenni McKnight, Interim Director of Development, University Libraries, at 850-644-5211 or jlmcknight@fsu.edu. Give Now About Us Dean's Welcome Library Hours Staff Directory Departments Giving to the Libraries Visiting the Libraries Facts & Figures Values Advancement Board Collection Strategies Faculty Assembly & Committees About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!