Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Meadows School of the Arts The Movement Interdisciplinary Studies Interdisciplinary Studies The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity At Meadows, we want you to be broadly educated. We believe it will make you a better artist, a better thinker and a more creative person who can add value to any endeavor. Part of your task during college is to understand how people in different disciplines think. Note that word: “discipline.” The departments in Meadows represent different academic disciplines (or modes of thinking): they each look at the world in specific ways, ask different questions and have different rules for what constitutes good work in each field. Part of your task in the next four years is to understand how people in different disciplines think. Discipline is required for success, but it is also a way to limit how you think. You must discipline your mind, but also remain open, so I encourage you to take courses outside of your home discipline and to think about how a double major or one of our new interdisciplinary majors or minors might benefit your career, your thinking, or your artistry. These will be outside your major, and they may not even "count" for anything beyond the credit, but that is the point. Art is the profession of openness. Be interdisciplinary. Meadows offers interdisciplinary courses that are open to any student in Meadows, from any major and without any prerequisites. Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search