Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Perkins School of Theology Faculty & Academics Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing by Teaching Area View Current Faculty Publications (PDF) The Biblical Witness Jaime Clark-Soles, Professor of New Testament Roy L. Heller, Associate Professor of Old Testament; Director, Graduate Program in Religious Studies Craig C. Hill, Leighton K. Farrell Endowed Dean and Professor of New Testament John R. (Jack) Levison, W. J. A. Power Professor of Old Testament Interpretation and Biblical Hebrew Susanne Scholz, Professor of Old Testament Abraham Smith, Professor of New Testament Sze-kar Wan, Professor of New Testament The Heritage of the Christian Witness in its Religious and Cultural Context Ted A. Campbell, Albert Cook Outler Professor of Wesley Studies Ángel J. Gallardo, Associate Director of the Perkins Intern Program Ruben L. F. Habito, Professor of World Religions and Spirituality; Coordinator of Spiritual Formation Robert A. Hunt, Professor of Christian Mission and Interreligious Relations Tamara Lewis, Assistant Professor of the History of Christianity James Kang Hoon Lee, Assistant Professor of the History of Early Christianity Bruce D. Marshall, Lehman Professor of Christine Doctrine The Interpretation of the Christian Witness Karen Baker-Fletcher, Professor of Systematic Theology *Charles E. Curran, Elizabeth Scurlock Professor of Human Values Steve Long, Cary M. Maguire University Professor of Ethics Hugo Magallanes, Associate Professor of Christianity and Cultures Natalia Marandiuc, Assistant Professor of Christian Theology Bruce D. Marshall, Lehman Professor of Christine Doctrine Rebekah Miles, Susanna Wesley Centennial Professor of Practical Theology and Ethics Theodore Walker Jr., Associate Professor of Ethics and Society The Witness of the Church and its Ministry O. Wesley Allen Jr., Lois Craddock Perkins Professor of Homiletics Christopher S. Anderson, Associate Professor of Sacred Music Susanne Johnson, Associate Professor of Christian Education Hugo Magallanes, Associate Professor of Christianity and Cultures Alyce M. McKenzie, Le Van Professor of Preaching and Worship; Altshuler Distinguished Teaching Professor; Director, Center for Preaching Excellence Harold J. Recinos, Professor of Church and Society Mark W. Stamm, Professor of Christian Worship Marcell Silva Steuernagel, Assistant Professor of Church Music, Director of the Master of Sacred Music degree program Jeanne Stevenson-Moessner, Professor of Pastoral Care Intern Program Faculty Charles L. Aaron, Jr., Co-Director of the Intern Program, Associate Professor of Supervised Ministry Ángel J. Gallardo, Associate Director of the Perkins Intern Program * SMU faculty member also affiliated with Perkins Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z 2021-2022 Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Immersions Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share