Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of the President Menu Search TTU Administration Office of the President Texas Women in Higher Education At Texas Tech University West Texas Regional Meeting Thursday, March 24, 2022 | 8:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. Texas Tech University, Lubbock, Texas, SUB Raider Ballroom Order of Events 8:o0 a.m. - 8:45 a.m. Registration and Breakfast Buffett 8:45 a.m. - 9:00 a.m. Dr. Sofia Chapman, Associate Academic Dean - Welcome and Opening Remarks Dr. Lawrence Schovanec, Texas Tech University President – Remarks 9:00 a.m. – 9:30 a.m. Jade Silva-Tovar, Assistant Vice President Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion "Healing my Inner Niña: From Chubby Brown Girl to Academic Chola and Chingona" Childhood, familial, and educational traumas leave lasting imprints on the bodymindspirit. Chicana Feminist, Gloria Anzaldúa, calls this borderlands spaces as we navigate Nepantla to find our way back to our whole selves. The fragmentations and cracks left by trauma shaped how one Chubby Brown Girl came to find her voice in being an academic chola and harnessing her chingonaness, often being the first, the only, but leaving a legacy for those to come. Using storytelling/testimonio, I give voice to the experiences that leave lasting marks but through healing my inner niña (little girl) which comes from finding your voice and the community of women who help in healing and (re)shaping spaces not built for us. 9:30 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Professor Catherine “Cassie” Christopher "Normalizing Struggle" Students, educators, and administrators often assume that if they're struggling, something is wrong. But learning, growth, and forward movement is hard work, and the struggles we experience aren't just normal, they're productive. By normalizing the fact that making progress is a struggle, we can improve the educational an emotional journeys of our students and ourselves. I will share the lessons I've learned that have changed the way I teach, the way I parent, and the way I shape the trajectory of my own career. 10:00 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. Kimberly Simon, Assistant Vice President of Title IX 10:30 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Brandi Stuart, Executive Senior Associate for Athletics "Is this thing on" The journey to finding one's voice isn't always easy, but if we are going to show up in our work spaces as our authentic selves, it's necessary. I'll share my journey to finding my voice and learning how to use it in a way that is impactful and influential in the workplace. I will also share my perspective on the importance of being able to steward the way for others to do the same. In a time where the idea of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging is at the forefront of leadership and intentional inclusion at work, it is imperative that we learn how to hear one another and see one another for who we really are. If we are successful in creating environments where people feel like they can show up as their authentic selves, it is then incumbent upon leaders in spaces to amplify the voices and ideas of those who are not in the room. We will explore the elements of inclusion, intentionality and empowerment as we walk through the journey of finding our voice so that we can amplify and uplift those around us. 11:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Nadia Flores, Associate Professor "Understanding your own path can be the key to your future success." Some of the adjectives and terms that have once described different stages of my life trajectory have been, undocumented immigrant, teen-mother, high school dropout, a non-English speaker, a single mother with two children, a non-traditional student attending college with three children, a mother of twins, and the list can be endless. I will speak about how by understanding my own path in life and by being focused on reaching my goals, I was able to go from being “all of the above” to becoming an associate professor with tenure. 11:30 a.m. - 11:45 a.m. Lunch Buffet 11:45 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. Lunch and Keynote Speakers Keynote Speakers: Dean Jessie Mendez with the TTU College of Education Dr. Kirsten Cook, Associate Professor of Accounting, Rawls College of Business Adminstration Dr. Matt Gregory, Associate Vice Provost and Dean of Students Cory S. Powell, Director, Texas Tech Office of Institutional Diversity Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Office of the President Address 115 Administration Building, Box 42005, Lubbock, Texas 79409-2005 Phone 806-742-2121 Fax 806-742-2138 Email pres.webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 2, 2022 11:18 AM Office of the President About the Office Office of the President About the Office Back Councils Office of the President About the Office Back Executive Council Advisory Council Athletic Council Gender Equity Programs Office of the President About the Office Back Congressional Internships Official Texas Tech Ornament President's Select Presidential Leadership and Globally Engaged Scholarships Presidential Excellence Awards Title IX Communications Office of the President Communications Back Presentations President's Perspective Letters / Memos 2020 President's Report Events Office of the President Back Presidential Lecture & Performance Series Lubbock Lights Top Scholars Red Raider Orientation Texas Tech Alumni Association REDRaider Talks Administration Office of the President Back Administration Office of the President Administration Back Leadership Organizational Chart Staff Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index