Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) » Support & Resources » Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Set Navigation title in component Making a Report Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Paid Parental Leave Paid Parental Leave (PPL) is available to all full-time staff and faculty. Additional information can be found on Human Resources' page on Paid Parental Leave FAQs. Lactation Rooms The University of Cincinnati provides designated Lactation Rooms across campus to faculty, staff, students, and visitors in need of a private space to express milk or nurse. These rooms all lock from the inside, offer electrical outlets for breast pumps, and provide a comfortable place to sit. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act requires employers to provide reasonable break time for an employee to express milk for their nursing child for one year after the child's birth each time such employee has the need to express milk. Employers are also required to provide a place, other than a bathroom, that is shielded from view and free from intrusion from coworkers and the public, which may be used by an employee to express milk. For more information regarding this policy at UC please visit the Labor Relations and Policy Department. If you have questions or concerns about accessing lactation rooms on campus, call the UC Women's Center at 513-556-4401. For more information about University policies and resources for pregnant and parenting faculty, staff, and students under Title IX contact the Office of Gender and Equity and Inclusion at 513-556-3349. Gaining Access to Lactation Rooms Lactation rooms on campus are accessible only by key. Anyone requiring access to a lactation room can contact the Department of Public Safety's Technical Services unit to request a key by calling 513-556-4925 unless otherwise noted in the room description below. West Campus Lactation Rooms DAAP 4470V right arrow down arrow The College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Complex is an academic building located in the far northwest corner of campus at the intersection of Clifton Avenue and Martin Luther King Drive. The room contains chair, sink, countertop and refrigerator. You must have a key to access this room. To request a key contact the Department of Public Safety's Technical Services at 513-556-4925. Edwards 5103 right arrow down arrow Edwards Center is located in the southeast corner of campus. at the corner of Corry Boulevard and Jefferson Ave. The room is located in Edwards Center Building 1 which is closest to Jefferson Ave. The room contains a chair, sink, countertop, and refrigerator. You must have a key to access this room. To request a key contact the Department of Public Safety's Technical Services at 513-556-4925. At this time, the room is not clearly marked. It is located opposite the elevators on the fifth floor. French West 6440 right arrow down arrow French West is an academic building located off Common Way. The lactation room is located on the 6th floor of the building and contains chair, sink, countertop and refrigerator. You must have a key to access this room. To request a key contact the Department of Public Safety's Technical Services at 513-556-4925. Langsam Library 450B right arrow down arrow Langsam Library is located above the Woodside Garage, just off of Martin Luther King Dr. Lindner Hall Business College 10S right arrow down arrow Lindner Hall Business College is an academic building located in the northeastern area of campus adjacent to Campus Green Garage off Martin Luther King Drive. The room contains a chair, sink, countertop and refrigerator. For access, call 513-556-7003 to reach the Lindner College of Business Manager for Building Operations. Old Chem 618A right arrow down arrow Old Chemistry is an academic building located near the science buildings in the northwest area of campus. The room contains chair, sink, countertop and refrigerator. You must have a key to access this room. To request a key contact the Department of Public Safety's Technical Services at 513-556-4925. Rhodes Hall 623 right arrow down arrow Rhodes Hall is an academic building located in the northern part of campus, across the plaza from Langsam Library. The room contains a chair, sink, and countertop. To request a key contact the Department of Public Safety's Technical Services at 513-556-4925. Teachers Dyer Complex 538 right arrow down arrow Teachers Dyer Complex is an academic building located in the southwest area of campus off McMicken Circle. The room contains multiple chairs, a sink, and a countertop. You must have a key to access this room. To request a key contact the Department of Public Safety's Technical Services at 513-556-4925. TUC 431 right arrow down arrow Tangeman University Center is a conference and event center located in the heart of campus off Main Street. The lactation room is on the fourth floor next to the elevator, and contains a chair, sink, and refrigerator. To access the room, visit the MainStreet Connect Center desk on the 4th floor upon arrival. If the MainStreet Connection Center is closed you can call 513-266-8942 to reach a TUC operations team member who will assist you. Van Wormer 360 right arrow down arrow Van Wormer is an office building located in the southwestern part of campus on McMicken Circle near University Pavilion. The room contains a chair, sink, countertop, and refrigerator. You must have a key to access this room. To request a key contact the Department of Public Safety's Technical Services at 513-556-4925. Medical Campus Lactation Rooms French East 224A right arrow down arrow The French East Building is an academic building located off Eden Avenue across the street from the Medical Arts Building and Barrett Center. The room contains a sink, chair, and fridge. To access this room email Katie Hyde. Medical Science Building 1050 right arrow down arrow The Medical Science Building is located in the heart of the medical campus. You must have a key to access this room. To request a key contact the Department of Public Safety's Technical Services at 513-556-4925. Procter Hall 220 right arrow down arrow Procter Hall is located in the southwest corner of the medical campus at the corner of Martin Luther King Drive and Vine Street. You must have a key to access this room. To request a key contact the Department of Public Safety's Technical Services at 513-556-4925. University Hall 330F right arrow down arrow University Hall is located in the southwest corner of the medical campus off Goodman Drive near the Marriott Kingsgate Conference Center. To access this room you must go through the Central HR Reception area. Other Locations 1819 Innovation Hub 3938A right arrow down arrow Once on the 3rd floor go straight and to the left. UCBA: Muntz Hall 121A right arrow down arrow The room is accessible by key card swipe or Bearcat card. UC Clermont: Jones 203A right arrow down arrow The room is accessible by checking out the key at the Information Desk in the Student Services building. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top