Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityCoronavirus (COVID-19) Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQs COVID Dashboard Contact Marquette.edu // Coronavirus (COVID-19) CLICK TO UPLOAD YOUR PROOF OF VACCINATION Or Booster What do I do if I feel sick? Marquette Medical Clinic — (414) 288-7184 The university advises anyone, regardless of vaccination status, who experiences symptoms of COVID-19 to stay home, self-isolate and get tested. Unvaccinated individuals and those who are vaccinated but not boosted who come into close contact with someone diagnosed with COVID-19 must quarantine for 10 days and get tested 5-7 days after exposure. Individuals with a positive COVID-19 test are asked to fill out the voluntary disclosure form to aid in contact tracing. Individuals who are fully vaccinated and boosted who come into close contact with someone who has COVID-19 do not need to quarantine, but should monitor for symptoms for 10 days and should get tested 5-7 days after exposure, even if you don’t have symptoms. You should also wear a tight-fitting mask in presence of others for 10 days following exposure or until your test result is negative. If you develop symptoms you should self-isolate and get tested. You should isolate for 10 days if your test result is positive. Individuals with a positive COVID-19 test are asked to fill out the voluntary disclosure form to aid in contact tracing. Find more guidance about what to do you are exposed to COVID-19 or test positive Updated testing information is available on the City of Milwaukee Health Department website. Wisconsin to Offer Additional COVID-19 Vaccine Dose to People Who are Immunocompromised. Recent updates via Marquette Today CDC, City of Milwaukee strongly recommend masks indoors due to high COVID-19 transmissionFriday, May 20, 2022 Masks optional indoors at Marquette as of March 2, in alignment with updated CDC guidanceTuesday, March 1, 2022 Quarantine and isolation guidelines updated for residence hall studentsTuesday, March 1, 2022 Testing protocols for individuals who have not uploaded proof of COVID-19 boosterMonday, February 21, 2022 See more COVID-19 updates Additional Information COVID CHEQ COVID Dashboard What to do if you are exposed to or test positive for COVID-19 COVID-19 - Employee and Student Voluntary Disclosure Form Have a Question about Coronavirus? Marquette University Medical Clinic Future Students Undergraduate Graduate Marquette University Law School Marquette University School of Dentistry Online Programs CARES Act Info Research Plan Travel Guidance PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact brandon.richardson@marquette.edu. Feedback on COVID website Do you have a suggestion for how we can improve the Coronavirus (COVID-19) website? Fill out the form to share your feedback. Location Marquette University 1250 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources español Employment Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu COVID-19 Information eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©