Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Billing & Student Accounts Medical Insurance Billing & Student Accounts Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Medical Insurance The student health insurance plan for the 2021–2022 policy year, effective August 7, 2021, is through UnitedHealthcare. The plan design is similar to last year’s insurance plan. For more details about coverage, please refer to the Summary of Benefits and Coverage or contact UnitedHealth Care at 866-948-8472 or http://customerservice@uhcsr.com/. The network of providers can be found at UHC Options PPO - Harvard Pilgrim Joint Venture. UnitedHealthcare Benefits Information UnitedHealthcare Summary of Benefits and Coverage 2021–2022 Medical Insurance Information Enrollment (2021–2022) Waivers (2021–2022) ID Cards (2021–2022) Forms (2021–2022) Contacts and Questions (2021–2022) Enrollment (2021–2022) All students listed below are automatically enrolled in and billed for the student health insurance plan: Students enrolled in a degree program, regardless of credit hours Students who are not citizens or permanent residents of the U.S. Non-degree students enrolled at least 75% of full-time. Students are responsible for monitoring their eligibility status. (For graduate students in the schools of Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Carroll School of Management, Connell Graduate School of Nursing, School of Social Work, School of Theology and Ministry, and Woods College of Advancing Studies, 75% of full-time is 7 credits or more. For undergraduates in the Woods College of Advancing Studies, 75% of full-time is 9 credits or more.) Graduate students: Registration for classes triggers your insurance enrollment, and it takes 5–7 business days for your insurance to show as active in the carrier’s system. While the fall semester coverage begins on August 7 regardless of when you register, you should keep this timeframe in mind if you have health care providers who will need to verify your coverage with the insurance company. You should register for classes by mid-July if you need your insurance to show as active in the insurance system on August 7. Post-doctorate students are eligible to enroll on a voluntary basis. Print Open All Close All Dependent Enrollment Insured students have the option of enrolling their eligible dependents (a spouse or a child under the age of 26). The enrollment form is available under the Forms tab. Dependents must be enrolled for the same time period as the student. For example, a student enrolled beginning in the fall semester cannot purchase dependent coverage starting in the spring unless there is a qualifying event; see the enrollment form for further details. Dependents enrolled for the fall must be re-enrolled for the spring, and you are responsible for enrolling and re-enrolling your eligible dependents each semester. The deadline to enroll dependents is September 24, 2021 for the fall semester and January 28, 2022 for students newly enrolling for the spring. Enrollment forms received after that date will not be accepted. Note to students: You need to be enrolled in the insurance plan in order to enroll dependents. To make the dependent enrollment process as smooth as possible, you should register for classes as early as you are able. Premium Amounts First Semester (8/7/21–1/13/22) Second Semester (1/14/22–8/6/22) Student $1,550 $1,985 Spouse $1,550 $1,985 One child $1,550 $1,985 Two or more children $3,100 $3,970 Insurance Plan Benefits UnitedHealthcare Coverage The plan offers comprehensive benefits that include hospital room and board, inpatient and outpatient surgical procedures, lab work, x-rays, chemotherapy, radiation, inpatient and outpatient mental health, physician office and consultant visits, ambulance, and prescription drugs. Refer to the benefits information (PDF) and the information available at UnitedHealthcare for complete details about coverage, limitations and exclusions. Referrals from University Health Services A referral is not required with the UnitedHealthcare Plan, but there are many benefits to first seeking care or advice from Boston College's University Health Services. Visit University Health Services' website for more information. Coverage off Campus If you paid the premium for the entire year, you will be covered from August 7, 2021 through August 6, 2022. UnitedHealthcare provides the same benefits for students while they are on campus or on semester breaks, summer vacation, or study or travel abroad. While studying or traveling abroad, keep your identification card with you and take a copy of the brochure for reference. When outside the United States, you will likely be asked to pay for your medical care first and then will need to seek reimbursement. Covered expenses will be reimbursed on a non-network basis. When you submit claims for reimbursement, you may need to have the itemized bill(s) translated into English and include additional information. UHC Global can be reached toll free from within the United States at 800-527-0218 or collect from outside of the United States at 410-543-6330, or email at assistance@UHCGlobal.com. Leave of Absence If a student who is enrolled in the student insurance plan takes a medical leave of absence effective mid-semester, they will continue to be covered for the remainder of that semester. Coverage may also be extended for the following semester with approval from Boston College. Enrollment is not automatic. Please contact the Office of Student Services for information about enrollment and dates of eligibility. Enrollment After Waiving the Student Health Insurance Plan Students who initially waive participation in the Student Blue Plan and subsequently wish to enroll prior to the waiver deadline may rescind waivers by deleting the prior waiver on the www.bc.edu/myservices or by completing the Rescind Waiver form, available on the Forms tab. After the waiver deadline, a student may enroll in the student plan only on the basis of a qualifying event. Qualifying events include marriage, birth of a child, or loss of coverage from an existing policy. Students who qualify may submit a Petition to Add form, available under the Forms tab. Graduating Students Coverage for graduating students ends on January 13, 2022 (for fall graduates) or August 6, 2022 (for spring and summer graduates). There is not an option to extend the student plan. You can contact UnitedHealthcare about enrolling directly, or explore your options through your state Health Connector. The site for the MA State Health Connector is https://www.mahealthconnector.org/. Waivers (2021–2022) The medical insurance coverage periods are August 7, 2021 to January 13, 2022 for the fall and January 14, 2022 to August 6, 2022 for the spring. Waivers received by September 24, 2021 are for the entire academic year, and those received by January 28, 2022 are for the spring. By waiving the BC Student Health Insurance Plan, a student is waiving coverage for the full coverage period. Waiver forms can be found on the Forms tab. Print Open All Close All Domestic Students Waiver Requirements (U.S. Citizens and Permanent Residents) Students who are enrolled in a health plan that is comparable to the student plan may waive the BC coverage through www.bc.edu/myservices if they are at least 18 years old. Students under the age of 18 cannot file an electronic waiver. You and your parent or guardian must sign and submit a waiver form before the deadline. To provide proof of comparable coverage, a student will need to have information about his or her current health insurance plan readily available. By waiving the BC coverage, a student is confirming the following: The student is covered by the indicated medical insurance policy and will maintain coverage for the full 2021–2022 academic year. The student has compared their policy to the BC student plan and certifies that their plan provides benefits that are at least comparable to the plan: UnitedHealthcare Benefits Information. The student’s plan provides reasonable comprehensive coverage of health services, including primary care, emergency services, surgical services, hospitalization benefits, ambulatory patient services, and mental health services, along with coverage for lab work, diagnostic x-rays, physical therapy, chiropractic care, and prescription coverage, and that these services are reasonably accessible in the area where the student is attending school. A plan that provides coverage through a closed network of providers, not reasonably accessible to the student in the area where they attend school, for all but emergency services, does not qualify for a waiver. The student's plan is not an out-of-state Medicaid plan, or one of the following MA Medicaid Plans: Children’s Medical Security Program, MassHealth Limited and Health Safety Net. These plans do not qualify for a waiver. MassHealth plans other than those listed here are acceptable for a waiver. No claims have been submitted for payment under the UnitedHealthcare student plan for the 2021–2022 enrollment periods. The student assumes full responsibility for any medical expenses incurred during the insurance enrollment periods and neither Boston College nor the insurance company will be held responsible for any expenses incurred. Students travelling outside of the United States certify that their insurance plan provides reasonable and comprehensive coverage in the location where they are studying. If the student visits the United States during the 2021–2022 academic year, they will purchase a U.S.-based qualifying medical plan (as described above) for the period of their stay in the U.S. Incomplete waivers will not be processed. Waivers must be completed every year. All waivers must be submitted by September 24, 2021 for the entire academic year or by January 28, 2022 for the spring semester only. Students who do not complete a waiver prior to the deadline will automatically be enrolled in and charged the student-only premium for the UnitedHealthcare student plan. Once the waiver is submitted, the charge will be removed from the student account within forty-eight hours; students and authorized payers can verify the adjustment by logging in to www.bc.edu/myservices ("My Bill") and viewing Current Activity on the View & Pay Accounts tab. Students are responsible for verifying that their waiver was submitted correctly. Providing insurance information to other offices on campus (e.g., Athletics, Health Services) does not fulfill the waiver requirement. If a student does not complete a waiver with the Office of Student Services, either through www.bc.edu/myservices or on paper, prior to the deadline, he or she will automatically be enrolled in and charged for the student insurance plan. Students who missed the deadline, but have extenuating circumstances, may submit a Petition to Waive After Published Deadline form, available on the Forms tab. Students are eligible for the insurance plans offered through the Health Connector but should review these plans carefully, because they may have high deductibles. International Students Waiver Requirements (Students who are Not U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents) In order to ensure international students are covered by a plan that provides coverage which meets or exceeds the Student Health Insurance Plan, international students are not eligible to waive BC's Student Health Insurance Plan. If you are insured through (1) your own or a parent/guardian/spouse’s health insurance plan offered through a U.S. employer or (2) a government sponsored program, (for example Government of Kuwait/UAE or Government of Saudi Arabia), you may be eligible for a waiver. MA Medicaid Plans: Children’s Medical Security Program, MassHealth Limited, and Health Safety Net do not qualify for a waiver. International insurance plans, socialized or standard medical policies (including Canadian policies), travel insurance plans, short-term medical plans, or plans not fully compliant with the Affordable Care Act are not acceptable and will not be considered. Your insurance must be effective on or before August 7, 2021 (for fall and annual waivers) or January 14, 2022 (for spring waivers) to qualify for a waiver. For example, a policy beginning on September 1, 2021 would not qualify for a fall or annual waiver. The waiver form can be found on the Forms tab. ID Cards You can access your ID card information on the UnitedHealthcare site when the policy is active on August 7. If you are unable to access your ID card, check the date of the insurance charge on your bill. If you have recently registered, allow 5–7 business days for your ID card to be viewable. Graduate students: Your insurance enrollment is activated by your registration for classes, so if you do not have an insurance charge on your BC student account, you need to register for classes. To obtain your HP/UHCSR health insurance ID card: Go to www.uhcsr.com/BC and click “Create Account” at the bottom of the page. Enter your first and last name, date of birth, and your Eagle ID. Create your username and password, and click Next to activate your My Account. Log in using the username and password you just created. Verify your identity using your BC email address. Remember that your email address can be either firstname.lastname@bc.edu or username@bc.edu, so try the other version if the first does not work. You'll be sent a code to enter to complete your verification. 2021–2022 Forms Spring and Summer Enrollment Forms Petition to Add: This form is for mid-semester enrollment for students who have lost their prior coverage due to a qualifying event. To enroll, log in to your Gallagher account using your BC username and password. Under Plan Summary, select the "Enroll-Qualifying Life Event" button in the 2021–2022 Spring Coverage section and follow the prompts. Summer 2022 Enrollment: New graduate students and student-athletes beginning their programs in the summer can enroll in the summer policy. The summer insurance term is May 10 to August 6; the fall insurance policy begins on August 7. Log in to your Gallagher account using your BC username and password. Select the "Enroll" button under 2021–2022 Summer coverage and follow the prompts. Contacts and Questions (2021–2022) Claims and Claim Payments UnitedHealthcare 866-948-8472 http://customerservice@uhcsr.com/ Preferred Providers The Preferred Provider network for the UnitedHealthcare plan is UHC - Harvard Pilgrim Joint Venture. Use their Find Care service here: UHC Options PPO - Harvard Pilgrim Joint Venture. Gallagher Student Health & Special Risk 500 Victory Road, Quincy, MA 02171 800-394-4026 GallagherStudent.com/BC Discount Plans EyeMed Vision Care Discount Plan: You are automatically enrolled in the EyeMed discount plan if you are enrolled in the student medical insurance plan. Note that this is a discount program, not a vision insurance plan. Please visit the Gallagher Student website or contact Gallagher at 800-394-4026 for more information. Basix Dental Savings Program: You are automatically enrolled in the Basix discount plan if you are enrolled in the student medical insurance plan. Note that this is a discount program, not a dental insurance plan. Please see below for optional dental insurance enrollment. Visit Gallagher Student website or contact Gallagher at 800-394-4026 for more information about the Basix Plan. Optional Dental and Vision Plans: Students can voluntarily enroll in Dental and Vision insurance plans through Gallagher Student Health & Special Risk. This coverage is NOT included with your student medical insurance plan; coverage is optional and purchased separately. You do not need to be enrolled in the BC medical insurance plan to enroll in this coverage. For more information, visit https://www.gallagherstudent.com/products/voluntary-dental-insurance/. 2020–2021 Medical Insurance Information Enrollment (2020–2021) Waivers (2020–2021) Forms (2020–2021) Contacts and Questions (2020–2021) Enrollment (2020–2021) All students enrolled in a degree program, regardless of credit hours, and non-degree students enrolled at least 75% of full-time will be automatically enrolled in and billed for the Student Health Insurance Plan. Seventy-five percent of full-time enrollment is as follows: Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Graduate—7 or more Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Graduate—7 or more Carroll School of Management Graduate Programs—7 or more Connell Graduate School of Nursing—7 or more School of Social Work—7 or more Woods College of Advancing Studies, Undergraduate—9 or more Woods College of Advancing Studies, Graduate—7 or more School of Theology and Ministry—7 or more Students studying abroad through both BC-sponsored and approved external programs will automatically be enrolled. Post-doctorate students are eligible to enroll on a voluntary basis. Boston College will also automatically enroll and charge non-degree graduate and WCAS students registering at the credit levels listed above for the Student Health Insurance Plan. Students are responsible for monitoring their eligibility status. Students who are not citizens or permanent residents of the United States will be automatically enrolled in the Boston College plan regardless of the number of their credit hours. Print Open All Close All Dependent Enrollment Insured students have the option of enrolling their eligible dependents (a spouse or a child under the age of 26). The enrollment form is available under the Forms tab. Dependents must be enrolled for the same time period as the student. For example, a student enrolled beginning in the fall semester cannot purchase dependent coverage starting in the spring unless there is a qualifying event; see the enrollment form for further details. Dependents enrolled for the fall must be re-enrolled for the spring and you are responsible for enrolling and re-enrolling your eligible dependents each semester. The deadline to enroll dependents is September 25, 2020 for the fall semester and February 5, 2021 for students newly enrolling for the spring. Enrollment forms received after that date will not be accepted. Premium Amounts First Semester (8/7/20–1/14/21) Second Semester (1/15/21–8/6/21) Student (U.S. citizens and permanent residents) $1,370 $1,918 Student (International students*) $1,380 $1,931 Spouse (U.S. citizens and permanent residents) $3205.45 $4487.63 Spouse (International students*) $3215.45 $4500.63 All Children (U.S. citizens and permanent residents) $2500.79 $3500.69 All Children (International students*) $2518.40 $3523.76 *The policy for international students includes coverage for medical evacuation and repatriation. Insurance Plan Benefits Blue Cross Blue Shield Student Blue Plan Coverage The plan offers comprehensive benefits that include hospital room and board, inpatient and outpatient surgical procedures, lab work, x-rays, chemotherapy, radiation, inpatient and outpatient mental health, physician office and consultant visits, ambulance, and prescription drugs. Refer to the summary of benefits (PDF) and the information available at GallagherStudent.com/BC for complete details about coverage, limitations and exclusions. Referrals from University Health Services A referral is not required with Blue Cross Blue Shield Student Blue Plan, but there are many benefits to first seeking care or advice from Boston College's University Health Services. Visit University Health Services' website for more information. Coverage off Campus If you paid the premium for the entire year, you will be covered from August 7, 2020 through August 6, 2021. Blue Cross Blue Shield Student Blue Plan provides the same benefits for students while they are on campus or on semester breaks, summer vacation, or study or travel abroad. While studying or traveling abroad, keep your identification card with you and take a copy of the brochure for reference. When outside the United States, you will likely be asked to pay for your medical care first and then will need to seek reimbursement. Covered expenses will be reimbursed on a non-network basis. When you submit claims for reimbursement, you will need to have the itemized bill(s) translated into English and include a letter informing the claims administrator that you are seeking reimbursement for charges previously paid. Be sure to include your name, ID number, address (to receive your reimbursement check), and the University's name on the bill. On Call International can be reached toll free from the United States or Canada at 800-850-4556, or visit OnCallInternational.com. Coverage after Graduation Boston College students insured by BlueCross BlueShield can enroll in BlueCross BlueShield's direct non-group plan after their coverage ends through Boston College's program. The number at BlueCross BlueShield is 800-422-3545 to enroll. ID Cards Beginning in 2020, ID cards will be electronic. You can download the Blue Cross Blue Shield MyBlue app on your phone, which provides a digital ID card that you can access anytime. To create an account on the app, you will need your BCBS ID number. Obtaining your Blue Cross Blue Shield ID: If you are a returning student, your BCBS ID remains the same. Students who are new to the plan can access their insurance ID at www.gallagherstudent.com/bc by creating an account. Access the Account Home link within the My Account Menu. Your claims ID is your BCBSMA ID; add the 3-letter prefix XXP to your ID when setting up your account with BCBS. (You can also contact Gallagher Student customer service at (800)394-4026 for your ID.) If you are unable to access your ID, check the date of the insurance charge on your bill. Allow 5–7 days after the insurance is charged for it to be activated. Using the BCBS MyBlue App: Once you have your BCBS Member ID (directions above), download the MyBlue app from the Google Play or App Store. Click “Register Now” and use your Eagle ID number to complete the required fields. Additional information about the app is available at https://myblue.bluecrossma.com/student. Other Options: If you do not want to use the MyBlue app, here are other ways to access your insurance information: You can print an insurance verification letter from the Gallagher website (see “Obtaining your Blue Cross Blue Shield ID” above). You can create a Blue Cross Blue Shield account at https://member.bluecrossma.com/login. If you prefer a physical ID card, you can request one from BCBS by calling 800-241-0803. Returning students can use their prior ID card. Leave of Absence Students who are enrolled in the student insurance plan and who are required to take a leave of absence from Boston College for medical reasons will continue to be covered for the remainder of the semester in which the withdrawal takes place. Coverage may also be extended for the following semester with approval from Boston College. Please contact the Office of Student Services for more information. Enrollment After Waiving the Student Health Insurance Plan Students who initially waive participation in the Student Blue Plan and subsequently wish to enroll prior to the waiver deadline may rescind waivers by deleting the prior waiver on the www.bc.edu/myservices or by completing the Rescind Waiver form, available on the Forms tab. After the waiver deadline, a student may enroll in the Student Blue Plan only on the basis of a qualifying event. Qualifying events include marriage, birth of a child, or loss of coverage from an existing policy. Students who qualify may submit a Petition to Add form, available under the Forms tab. Waivers (2020–2021) The medical insurance coverage periods are August 7, 2020 to January 14, 2021 for the fall and January 15, 2021 to August 6, 2021 for the spring. Waivers received by September 25, 2020 are for the entire academic year, and those received by February 5, 2021 are for the spring. By waiving the BC Student Health Insurance Plan, a student is waiving coverage for the full coverage period. Waiver forms can be found on the Forms tab. Print Open All Close All Domestic Students Waiver Requirements (U.S. Citizens and Permanent Residents) Students who are enrolled in a health plan that is comparable to the Student Blue Plan may waive the BC coverage through www.bc.edu/myservices if they are at least 18 years old. Students under the age of 18 cannot file an electronic waiver. You and your parent or guardian must sign and submit a waiver form before the deadline. To provide proof of comparable coverage, a student will need to have information about his or her current health insurance plan readily available. By waiving the BC coverage, a student is confirming the following: The student is covered by the indicated medical insurance policy and will maintain coverage for the full 2020–2021 academic year. The student has compared their policy to the Student Blue Plan and certifies that their plan provides benefits that are at least comparable to the Student Blue Plan: 2020–2021 Blue Cross Blue Shield Student Blue Plan Summary of Benefits. The student’s plan provides reasonable comprehensive coverage of health services, including primary care, emergency services, surgical services, hospitalization benefits, ambulatory patient services, and mental health services, along with coverage for lab work, diagnostic x-rays, physical therapy, chiropractic care, and prescription coverage, and that these services are reasonably accessible in the area where the student is attending school. A plan that provides coverage through a closed network of providers, not reasonably accessible to the student in the area where they attend school, for all but emergency services, does not qualify for a waiver. The student’s plan is not an out-of-state Medicaid plan, or one of the following MA Medicaid Plans: Children’s Medical Security Program, MassHealth Limited and Health Safety Net. These plans do not qualify for a waiver. MassHealth plans other than those listed here are acceptable for a waiver. No claims have been submitted for payment under the Student Blue Plan for the 2020–2021 enrollment periods. The student assumes full responsibility for any medical expenses incurred during the insurance enrollment periods and neither Boston College nor the insurance company will be held responsible for any expenses incurred. Students travelling outside of the United States certify that their insurance plan provides reasonable and comprehensive coverage in the location where they are studying. If the student visits the United States during the 2020–2021 academic year, they will purchase a U.S.-based qualifying medical plan (as described above) for the period of their stay in the U.S. Incomplete waivers will not be processed. Waivers must be completed every year. All waivers must be submitted by September 25, 2020 for the entire academic year or by January 29, 2021 for the spring semester only. Students who do not complete a waiver prior to the deadline will automatically be enrolled in and charged the student-only premium for the Student Blue Plan. Once the waiver is submitted, the charge will be removed from the student account within forty-eight hours; students and authorized payers can verify the adjustment by logging in to www.bc.edu/myservices ("My Bill") and viewing Current Activity on the View & Pay Accounts tab. Students are responsible for verifying that their waiver was submitted correctly. Providing insurance information to other offices on campus (e.g., Athletics, Health Services) does not fulfill the waiver requirement. If a student does not complete a waiver with the Office of Student Services, either through www.bc.edu/myservices or on paper, prior to the deadline, he or she will automatically be enrolled in and charged for the Student Blue Plan. Students who missed the deadline, but have extenuating circumstances, may submit a Petition to Waive After Published Deadline form, available on the Forms tab. Students are eligible for the insurance plans offered through the Health Connector but should review these plans carefully, because they may have high deductibles. International Students Waiver Requirements (Students who are Not U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents) In order to ensure international students are covered by a plan that provides coverage which meets or exceeds the Student Health Insurance Plan, international students are not eligible to waive BC's Student Health Insurance Plan. If you are insured through (1) your own or a parent/guardian/spouse’s health insurance plan offered through a U.S. employer or (2) a government sponsored program, (for example Government of Kuwait/UAE or Government of Saudi Arabia), you may be eligible for a waiver. MA Medicaid Plans: Children’s Medical Security Program, MassHealth Limited, and Health Safety Net do not qualify for a waiver. 2020–2021 Forms See above for current Medical Insurance forms. Contacts and Questions (2020–2021) Enrollment, Benefits, Replacement IDs Gallagher Student Health & Special Risk 500 Victory Road, Quincy, MA 02171 800-394-4026 GallagherStudent.com/BC (site includes form to email questions) Claims and Claim Payments Blue Cross Blue Shield BlueCrossMA.com BCBS Preferred Providers (Massachusetts and Nationwide) Blue Cross Blue Shield Policy Number: 4956160 http://provider.bcbs.com/ Participating Pharmacies ExpressScripts Express-Scripts.com EyeMed Discount Vision Plan 866-839-3633 EnrollWithEyeMed.com Basix Dental Savings Plan 888-274-9961 BasixStudent.com Basix Dental Savings Program Optional Dental Plan: Students can voluntarily enroll in the Blue Cross Blue Shield Dental Blue plan. This coverage is NOT included with your student medical insurance plan; coverage is optional and purchased separately. Students do not need to be enrolled in the medical insurance plan to purchase the dental plan. The cost is $528 for coverage form August 15, 2020 through August 14, 2021. To enroll, go to GallagherStudent.com/BC and select "Dental Enrollment Form" on the left navigation bar. The deadline to enroll is September 30, 2020 for fall and annual plans and February 28, 2021 for spring plans. 2020–2021 Blue Cross Blue Shield Dental Blue Program Summary of Benefits Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College