Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University The Office of the Registrar Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Course Catalog Forms Home Welcome Our Mission Contact Us Students General Information Student Forms Degree Planning Academic Classification Cancelled Courses/Sections Catalog & Degree Programs Course Descriptions Course Prerequisites Cross-Listed Courses Permission Required Courses Restricted Courses/Sections Schedule of Classes (Online Search) Schedule of Classes (PDF) Schedule of Classes (Search Tips) Using the University Catalog (Video) How to Run a Degree Audit (Students) Registration Getting Started with Registration AccessPlus Registration Process AccessPlus Registration Process (Video) Add/Drop (Schedule Changes) Auditing Courses Cancel Registration Consortium Holds Credit Limits Full-Time/Part-Time Status Schedule Planner/Class Search How to Use Schedule Planner Registration Start Dates Registration Holds Pass/Not Pass Grading Student Schedule Change Form - Tutorial Degree Audit How to Run a Degree Audit (Students) FAQ Reentry, Returning Students Reinstatement after Academic Dismissal Reentering or Returning Graduate Students Reentering or Returning International Students Reentering or Returning Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Reverse Credit Transfer Transfer Credit Evaluation Distance Education Exams Fall Night Exams Fall Final Exams Spring Final Exams Spring Night Exams Dead Week Grades Grade Reports on AccessPlus Grading System/Scale GPA Calculator Dean's List & Honoraries FAQs Deans List Release Veterans Education Benefits Types of Benefits Frequently Asked Questions Additional Veterans Resources Post Secondary Enrollment (PSEO) Frequently Asked Questions Textbook & Fee Information Order an Official Transcript Verification/Proof of Enrollment Full & Half Time Status Good Student Discount Business & Professional Organizations Academic Withdrawal Standard Withdrawal Medical Withdrawal Medical Documentation Guidelines Medical Withdrawal Sample Provider Letters Out of Term Withdrawal Tuition Appeal Withdrawal Terminology Withdrawal Policy Individuals Involved with Withdrawals U.S. Diversity and International Perspectives International Perspective Courses U.S. Diversity Courses Honors Seminars Approved Transfer Courses Archived Lists IP Credit for Veterans Other Resources Campus Builidings Soar in 4 Textbook Information Registrar Video Library Faculty & Staff General Information ADIN Schedule Guide Dean's List Department Test-Outs Enrollment Statistics Graduation Lists Schedule Changes Schedule of Classes (PDFs) Registrar Contact Information Catalog & Course Editing (yearly) Timeline College Reports Guides & Tutorials Quick Links Catalog & Courses Course Description Guidelines Objections Catalog Editor Checklist Catalog Editing Handouts and Presentations Summer Editing Course Offerings Information Class Lists AccessPlus Grade Reporting Create an Email List Degree Audit Advisor Instructions Grade Processing Fianl Grade Submit and Class List Information Grade Report Forms Grade Report Tutorial F Grade Processing Advisor Graduation Information Advisor Early Degree Audit Review for Graduating Seniors Early Degree Audit Review Dates Student Records Policies FERPA - Training FERPA - Sharing Student Information (PII) FERPA - What Faculty and Staff Need to Know Systems Access Codebook Department Contacts Faculty & Staff Forms Administrative Schedule Change Form Tutorial Student Schedule Change Form Tutorial Access to Student Systems Mass Email Request Registrar Data Request Academic Calendars Academic Calendar University Calendar Department Dates (2021-2022) Department Dates (2022-2023) Academic Dates to 2027 Registration Start Dates Past Calendars Department Dates (2020-2021) Department Dates (2019-2020) Department Dates (2018-2019) Department Dates (2016-2018) Department Dates (2015-2017) Calendar Principles Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Mandatory Fees Program Specific Fees Course Fees Tuition Adjustment Deadlines Tuition FAQs Expenses Estimator Financial Aid Billing and Payments Previous Term Fees Fee Exceptions Graduation Resources Enrollment Statistics University Summary Enrollment by Major or Department Multicultural Summary Sex, Ethnicity & Residence Reports Headcount & FTE Policies FERPA Training FERPA Classroom Recordings FERPA - Sharing Student Information (PII) AccessPlus & Confidentiality Name and Sex Marker Change Policies Forms Student Forms Faculty & Staff Forms Residency Application for Admission & Tuition AccessPlus Information Academic Help Academic Success Center Academic Help & Appeals Academic Probation Policy Writing & Media Center Veterans Center General Information About Final and Night Exams Night Exams Fall Night Exam Schedule Spring Night Exam Schedule Night exams may be scheduled for a multi-sectioned course if a common departmentally developed examination will be administered to all students in the course at the same time, and test scores will be used as a basis for uniform grading for all sections of the course. Night exam requests must be approved by the Provost and announced in the Schedule of Classes. Night exams do not apply to any distance education course sections. Whenever a night exam is administered, a regular class meeting during that week will be omitted. Students who are unable to take a night exam at a scheduled time because of a course conflict or other legitimate reason must notify the instructor in advance and must be given the opportunity to be examined at another time mutually convenient for the student and the instructor. The instructor will determine whether to administer the same exam or an alternate exam, or use an alternate assessment procedure. Students who have two or more night exams scheduled on the same calendar day and time may request to reschedule a night exam. The instructor of the course having the smallest number of students is responsible for arranging an alternate examination time for the student unless make-up exam times are available in one of the other courses. Graduate faculty who want to administer a night examination should work directly with Room Scheduling to ensure that a room is available. Final Exams Fall Final Exam Schedule Spring Final Exam Schedule Final Exams Video Tutorial No special times are set for summer final exams, contact your instructor for more information. Final exams in courses of two or more credits may not be given at a time that differs from the exam as scheduled by the registrar. An instructor may not give a final exam prior to final exam week nor change the published time final examination as it appears in the final exam schedule. Permission to change the time for which an exam is scheduled may be given only by the dean of the college. If the instructor elects not to give a final exam, the class is required to meet at the scheduled final exam period for other educational activity such as a review of the course or feedback on previous exams. With the exception of special group courses, time for examinations is determined by the student’s first contact (beginning of class time) of the week in each course. Special group exams will be scheduled after the semester begins if appropriate exam times and rooms can be arranged. When using this tentative schedule, refer to the list of probable special group exam courses. This list of group exam courses is subject to change. For courses which are all recitation or lecture, or which have one or more recitations or lectures with one or more laboratories, the first recitation or lecture of the week is considered as the first contact of the week. In courses having both recitations and lectures, the department head may determine whether the first lecture or the first recitation is to be considered the first contact. When determining first contact hour, look for the beginning of class time in the ranges listed. For example, if the first contact time is Mon. 11:00 a.m., look for Mon. 10:30-11:29 a.m.; if the first contact time is Tues. 12:40 p.m., look for Tues. 12:30-1:29 p.m.; if the first contact time is Tues. 1:10 p.m., look for Tues. 12:30-1:29 p.m. Courses with lectures scheduled at 6:00 p.m. or later should give their examinations during finals week from 7:00-9:00 p.m. on the day the class normally meets. Courses with a first contact hour not listed on the exam schedule are to have examinations during finals week at a time to be announced by the instructor once rooms are secured through Room Scheduling. Examples include courses with a first contact time on Tuesday between 11:30-12:29 p.m., classes with first contact time on Mon. or Tues. between 4:30 - 5:59 p.m., or courses with a first contact time on a Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday. For courses that are not listed on the exam schedule, the exam time is to be announced by the instructor. If the instructor arranged exam time causes a student to have two exams at the same time, the student may request to reschedule the instructor arranged final exam. The instructor of the arranged exam is responsible for offering an alternate examination time for the student unless make-up exam times are available in the other course. To reschedule, the student must notify the instructor prior to the last day of class before the beginning of dead week so the instructor has time to make appropriate arrangements. Examinations will be held in the meeting place of the first contact of the week, except those in special groups. For the special groups, the place will be announced by the instructor. Students who have three or more finals on the same calendar day may request to reschedule a final. The instructor of the course having the smallest number of students is responsible for arranging an alternate examination time for the student unless make-up exam times are available in one of the other courses. To reschedule, the student must notify the instructor prior to the last day of class before the beginning of dead week so the instructor has time to make appropriate arrangements. For information regarding the online testing center please visit http://www.testcenter.iastate.edu/. back to top Office of the Registrar Office of the Registrar 214 Enrollment Services Center 2433 Union Dr. Ames, IA 50011-2042 registrar@iastate.edu 515-294-1840 - Phone 515-686-6022- Fax Facebook Twitter Youtube Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information