Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Career Services Students Employers Faculty & Staff Alumni Virtual Resources Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Resume and Cover Letter Guide Every employer is different, but most will require resumes & cover letters. Graduating Soon? Career Services is here to support you. Where Tiger Talent Thrives Career Services helps Tiger Talent thrive by assisting you with the successful transition from college to career. We’re Online! Career Services continues to serve our Tiger community virtually. Making Major Decisions? Explore your major and career options with PathwayU! Tiger Link Powered By Handshake Get Connected with TigerLink powered by Handshake. PreviousNext Take Action Find A Job Or Internship Post A Job or Internship Events Contact Us Follow Career Services InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Career Services Welcome to Career Services Career Services helps Tiger Talent Thrive by assisting you with the successful transition from college to career. Main Office Hours Monday - Friday from 8:00am to 4:30pm Main Office Phone 901-678-2239 All student career services are currently being provided virtually at this time. You can request a virtual appointment with your Career Specialist through TigerLink powered by Handshake. Once in Handshake click Career Center > Appointments. Students Students Request Career Advising and explore resources Get started! Employers Employers Connect and engage with our students Connect now! Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Learn more about how to partner with us! Here is how! Our Mission Career Services seeks to complement the academic mission of the University by educating and empowering students to take ownership of their professional development as lifelong learners and to function successfully in a global society. Tiger Talent is Something to Roar About! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/3/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.