In This Issue Tackling Cancer How the Cure Bowl is fueling groundbreaking cancer research at UCF. UCF at Otronicon UCF showcases its tech prowess at Orlando Science Center’s Otronicon. UCF Tennis Moves to Lake Nona The Knights opened the 2017 season at their new home in Lake Nona. The Bro’d Trip Last year, two UCF brothers visited all 50 states, three Canadian Provinces and one U.S. Territory. On Campus – Spring 2017 View photos from Spirit Splash and Homecoming to a new Knights Plaza and Rent-a-Pup. Breaking Down Student Debt Surprising facts about U.S. student debt and how we pay for college. Monsters in the Closet The UCF Bug Closet inspires nightmares and research. In Good Health The 10 things that set the UCF medical school apart from similar medical programs in the nation. Why I Give a Damn After 25 years as president of UCF, President John C. Hitt still believes in the transformative power of education. The Calm Persistence of Richard Lapchick From basketball camp to the world stage, Lapchick has dedicated his life to addressing racial inequality in sports and society. Kickin’ It New School A cutting-edge classroom simulator at UCF is helping educators become better teachers. Knights’ Kingdom UCF alumni chapters and clubs are a great way to stay connected to everything you love about being a Knight. Speak & Spell Was a Game Changer The Speak & Spell broke ground in technology. The Big World of Nanotechnology Six ways nanotechnology is changing our lives. The Science of Scent Professor Konstantin Vodopyanov’s revolutionary technology could make diagnosing disease as easy as exhaling. Close Back Forward Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives Speak & Spell Was a Game Changer The Speak & Spell broke ground in technology. Like "Speak & Spell Was a Game Changer" on Facebook Tweet "Speak & Spell Was a Game Changer" on Twitter Spring 2017 | By Bree Adamson ’04 If you’re a parent or child of the ’80s, you’re likely familiar with the brightly colored Speak & Spell and the metallic, metronomic voice it produced. But when it debuted in 1978, few could have predicted that the hardware inside that plastic icon would forever change the landscape of technology and communication. “We had created the first single-chip digital signal processing (DSP) device,” says Gene Frantz ’71, one of the four original designers of the Speak & Spell from Texas Instruments. The discovery of DSP allowed researchers to study signal processing in real time with no perceived delay between the input and output of a signal. In short, they could convert information from analog to digital — and back to analog — almost instantly. Frantz and his team’s breakthrough in DSP led to the creation of synthesized speech and contributed to advancements in digital audio, digital cameras, wired and wireless phone technology, and cloud storage. He says, “Many of the products we can no longer live without can be traced back to [DSPs in] early products, and finally back to the Speak & Spell.” Here are a few more facts about the Speak & Spell: A Real Voice“The voice of the Speak & Spell [was] a radio disc jockey in Dallas,” says Frantz, who majored in electrical engineering at UCF. “We would record his voice and then [put it] through an algorithm called analysis synthesis.” The result was a voice that didn’t convey much emotion, which turned out to be a benefit, Frantz says. “It never raised its voice, never got mad, never laughed at the student and never told on him or her.” The MechanicsAfter being converted to digital and compressed, data was placed on an integrated circuit with 128 kilobits (16 kilobytes) of memory — state of the art considering 4 kilobits was standard, but a far cry from today’s gigabyte lifestyle. Whenever the Speak & Spell chose a new word, the information was pulled from the memory and sent to the synthesizer, which recreated the sounds for the user. Bright and Smart While the cherry-red case of the Speak & Spell caught people’s eye, it was the interactive educational experience that captivated their attention. Using the rote method of learning, the toy taught users to spell words that didn’t follow traditional spelling rules. The 250-word list included “echo,” “beauty,” “courage” and “rhythm” — Frantz’s personal favorite. More Than A ToyThe Speak & Spell was the first device to use synthetic speech — something many other researchers and organizations, including the federal government, were trying to accomplish. When his team cracked the code, Frantz says, “We had military companies calling us asking about [synthetic speech]. They would say, ‘We feel kind of funny coming to a toy company to talk about this kind of technology.’ ” Collaborative SpiritDesigned to resemble a book, the Speak & Spell featured a handle and was powered by batteries, not a wall adapter, so kids could carry it around easily and safely. What began with four engineers evolved into a team of hundreds, including a significant design staff. “You have to live with this collaborative result, not all of which you would have chosen,” Frantz says. “But by golly, it looks good.” More UCF Stories Knights’ Kingdom UCF alumni chapters and clubs are a great way to stay connected to everything you love about being a Knight. UCF at Otronicon UCF showcases its tech prowess at Orlando Science Center’s Otronicon. Tackling Cancer How the Cure Bowl is fueling groundbreaking cancer research at UCF. On Campus – Spring 2017 View photos from Spirit Splash and Homecoming to a new Knights Plaza and Rent-a-Pup. Kickin’ It New School A cutting-edge classroom simulator at UCF is helping educators become better teachers. The Bro’d Trip Last year, two UCF brothers visited all 50 states, three Canadian Provinces and one U.S. Territory. Breaking Down Student Debt Surprising facts about U.S. student debt and how we pay for college. In Good Health The 10 things that set the UCF medical school apart from similar medical programs in the nation. Monsters in the Closet The UCF Bug Closet inspires nightmares and research. UCF Tennis Moves to Lake Nona The Knights opened the 2017 season at their new home in Lake Nona. The Science of Scent Professor Konstantin Vodopyanov’s revolutionary technology could make diagnosing disease as easy as exhaling. The Big World of Nanotechnology Six ways nanotechnology is changing our lives. The Calm Persistence of Richard Lapchick From basketball camp to the world stage, Lapchick has dedicated his life to addressing racial inequality in sports and society. Why I Give a Damn After 25 years as president of UCF, President John C. Hitt still believes in the transformative power of education. In Good Health The 10 things that set the UCF medical school apart from similar medical programs in the nation. UCF Tennis Moves to Lake Nona The Knights opened the 2017 season at their new home in Lake Nona. Kickin’ It New School A cutting-edge classroom simulator at UCF is helping educators become better teachers. Knights’ Kingdom UCF alumni chapters and clubs are a great way to stay connected to everything you love about being a Knight. UCF at Otronicon UCF showcases its tech prowess at Orlando Science Center’s Otronicon. Why I Give a Damn After 25 years as president of UCF, President John C. Hitt still believes in the transformative power of education. Speak & Spell Was a Game Changer The Speak & Spell broke ground in technology. The Calm Persistence of Richard Lapchick From basketball camp to the world stage, Lapchick has dedicated his life to addressing racial inequality in sports and society. The Science of Scent Professor Konstantin Vodopyanov’s revolutionary technology could make diagnosing disease as easy as exhaling. The Bro’d Trip Last year, two UCF brothers visited all 50 states, three Canadian Provinces and one U.S. Territory. On Campus – Spring 2017 View photos from Spirit Splash and Homecoming to a new Knights Plaza and Rent-a-Pup. Breaking Down Student Debt Surprising facts about U.S. student debt and how we pay for college. Monsters in the Closet The UCF Bug Closet inspires nightmares and research. Tackling Cancer How the Cure Bowl is fueling groundbreaking cancer research at UCF. The Big World of Nanotechnology Six ways nanotechnology is changing our lives. Back Forward Follow UCF on Facebook Follow UCF on Twitter Follow UCF on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816