Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Advent Reflections Home Connect Spirituality Reflections Advent Reflections This Advent season, we are offering weekly reflections prepared by Campus Minister for Liturgical Arts at Boston College Meyer J. Chambers. Bookmark this page and check back for new reflections each Sunday during Advent. Christmas Reflection “As a child, we were asked the question, “What do you want for Christmas?” As adults, our desires have become somewhat more sophisticated. Today is born our savior, Christ the Lord. As we receive the Light of the World into our hearts, my prayer is that we let it shine brightly and touch all those whom we encounter.” View past reflections Fourth Sunday of Advent “The anticipation of waiting for the birth of our children is something that my wife and I will never forget. The joy of having them in our lives makes clear that each day is Christmas all over again. Now I think I know how Mary felt.” Third Sunday of Advent “Luke ends today’s Gospel by saying, ‘Exhorting them in many other ways, he (meaning John the Baptist) preached good news to the people.’ That sounds like an example that we should follow for week three of Advent.” Second Sunday of Advent “I love this reading from the herald John the Baptist. It reminds me of the Mardi Gras season where I grew up in New Orleans. Prior to the parade’s arrival, people would mill around on the street, catching up on the latest gossip, meeting new people, and making friends. Then, all of a sudden, the sirens blare, heralding the approach of the parade. The crowds part, and the streets are cleared in anticipation of good things to come." First Sunday of Advent “Remember this: the name ‘Emmanuel’ as translated from the Hebrew means ‘God is with us.’ Whether you live alone, have been left alone, feel lonely, or are without the one you love, allow the season of Advent to be Emmanuel for you. Let Emmanuel be on your heart, on your lips, and in your actions.” Connect with us! Click here to join the C21 Advent Facebook Group! Boston College C21 Advent Calendar The Church in the 21st Century Center is celebrating Advent with an exciting, interactive calendar. A different surprise will be unlocked each day of the season, so bookmark the page and visit daily as we count down to Christmas. View the calendar Meyer J. Chambers Campus Minister for Liturgical Arts A native of New Orleans, Louisiana, Meyer moved to the Northeast in August 1983 to teach music at the Darrow School in New Lebanon, New York. In New Orleans, Mr. Chambers was educated in Catholic schools from kindergarten through graduate school. He earned an undergraduate degree in music education and a graduate degree in secondary education from Xavier University of Louisiana, the only Black Catholic University in the United States. In 1993, Mr. Chambers earned a Master of Liturgical Music Degree from The Benjamin T. Rome School of Music of The Catholic University of America. He pursued additional studies at Loyola University of the South and the University of Notre Dame. Mr. Chambers moved to the Boston area in August of 1987 to join the faculty of St. Sebastian's Country Day School in Needham, serving as chair of the fine arts department from 1988-1995. He has served as a presenter at various archdiocesan, regional, and national conferences connected to liturgy and music. In addition, he served as music director at St. John-St. Hugh Roman Catholic Church in the Grove Hall neighborhood of Dorchester, Massachusetts from June 1988 through May 2005 when the church was closed and reopened as St. Katharine Drexel Parish. Meyer continues to serves as music director. Also, Mr. Chambers served as the liturgical music director for the Archdiocese of Boston’s two Jubilee Masses at Foxboro Stadium in September 1999 (20,000 participants) and Fenway Park in April 2000 (19,000 participants). Mr. Chambers served as director of the Office for Black Catholics of the Archdiocese of Boston from October 1991 to June 2003, founding the Archdiocese of Boston Black Catholic Choir in 1992. On July 1, 2003, Mr. Chambers was appointed campus minister for liturgical arts at Boston College. As part of Boston College’s Sesquicentennial Celebration, Mr. Chambers co-directed the music for the mass at Fenway Park on September 15, 2012, that featured a combined 500 voice choir and a congregation of 20, 000. Mr. Chambers is married to Beth Chambers, director of Catholic Charities South. They have two sons, Severin (Mobile, Alabama) and Zachary (Harvard University ’18), and reside in West Roxbury, Massachusetts. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok