Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life Student Life Inclusion Arts & Culture About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics University of Notre Dame Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics Home Contact Search Menu Student Life Home › Campus Life › Student Life Division of Student Affairs The Division of Student Affairs enriches the experience of Notre Dame students by offering services, resources, and engagement opportunities designed to develop students to their full potential. The division oversees residential and extracurricular programs that promote community, faith, wellness, service and discernment for the University’s undergraduate and graduate students. Division of Student Affairs Residential Life Residential life is perhaps the most distinctive feature of the Notre Dame experience. At Notre Dame, residential life is designed to form undergraduate communities that are inclusive of all members; dedicated to the intellectual, moral, and spiritual development of each individual; and characterized by a collective sense of care and concern for the common good and service to others. Residential Life also offers several housing options to graduate students to assist in sustaining their quality of life outside the classroom. Residential Life Health and Wellness The Health and Wellness Unit supports the Holy Cross tradition of wellness with premiere services, resources, and education to promote the development of healthy students and to foster campus well-being. Centers, offices, and initiatives that help the unit to achieve its mission include University Health Services, the University Counseling Center, the Center for Student Support and Care, and the McDonald Center for Student Well-Being. University Health Services Student Development Student Development encompasses a wide range of departments to support our students’ growth and formation. Departments include the Office of Community Standards, the Family Resource Center, the Gender Relations Center, Multicultural Student Programs & Services, Notre Dame Bands, RecSports, the Student Activities Office, the Office of Student Enrichment, and Student Media. Student Development Career and Professional Development The Center for Career and Professional Development coordinates career-related services for undergraduate and graduate students as well as prospective employers. Services include career coaching and development, self-assessments, workshops, career fairs, and mock interviews. Students are encouraged to begin visiting early in their years at Notre Dame to begin discerning their futures. Career and Professional Development Campus Ministry Rooted in the Catholic tradition and inspired by the charism and spirituality of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the Office of Campus Ministry is committed to cultivating the faith of all Notre Dame students. Through undergraduate, graduate, liturgical, and music ministries, the office fosters personal spiritual growth, encourages participation in the sacramental and liturgical life of the Church, supports other forms of worship and personal prayer, provides opportunities for pilgrimages, retreats and service, and seeks to enhance and develop lifelong faith formation. Campus Ministry Graduate Student Life Graduate Student Life enhances the educational experience of and quality of life for Notre Dame students pursuing advanced degrees. It does so by cultivating a community of integrated learning in which the healthy and holistic development of mind, heart, body, and spirit is encouraged and supported for all graduate students, while meeting their distinct and diverse needs. Graduate Student Life Student Activities Office (SAO) The Student Activities Office provides the administrative and logistical framework for student groups to conduct activities at campus facilities. Student Activities Office Dining Campus Dining serves more than 15,000 students, faculty, staff, and visitors to the University through nearly 30 eating establishments, including fine dining, full-service restaurants, quick-service restaurants, and cafes. The operation is known nationally for the diversity and quality of its offerings, a distinction that is borne of its membership in the American Culinary Federation and a unique apprenticeship program that prepares chefs for all facets of running a campus dining establishment. Dining Student Life Inclusion Arts & Culture Quick Links Bookstore Employment Tour InsideND Academic Calendar University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning Notice of Non-Discrimination Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit