Skip to Main Content Brown University Global Brown International Students and Scholars Secondary Navigation Navigation About Search Menu Site Navigation Home International Students Planning for Brown Arriving at Brown Currently at Brown International Scholars Before You Arrive Once You Arrive J-1 Scholars J-1 Student Interns H-1B Scholars O-1 Scholars NAFTA TN Scholars B-1/Visa Waiver for Business Working and Living Moving to Providence Health and Safety Social Security Driver's License or State I.D. Taxes Banking and Finance Legal and Immigration Resources Resources for Dependents Food, Shopping and Recreation Transportation and Hotels Traveling What to Bring When Traveling Important Travel Updates I-94 Record Travel Outside the U.S. Travel Within the U.S. Announcements Search Global Brown International Students and Scholars International Students Sub Navigation In This Section Planning for Brown Arriving at Brown Currently at Brown International Students The University is committed to empowering international students to thrive in all aspects of their lives while at Brown. Like you, more than 1,800 of Brown’s students will come to College Hill from countries beyond the United States. Through programs, community-building opportunities, initiatives and many other resources, we support your planning, arrival and experience as an international student at Brown. Planning for Brown Understand visa types, fees, immigration vocabulary and how you will apply for a student visa. Arriving at Brown We host programs and orientations to welcome you to Brown and ease your transition to Providence. Currently at Brown OISSS is the place on campus for international students who need information about immigration regulations while pursuing their academic program. Popular Topics for Students Curricular Practical Training (CPT) U.S. immigration regulations define Curricular Practical Training (CPT) as authorized off-campus employment which is an integral or required part of your curriculum and course of study. Optional Practical Training (OPT) OPT is employment authorization designed to provide you with an opportunity to gain practical experience in your field of study, complementing your academic work. STEM Extension of Optional Practical Training (OPT) Students in eligible STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) fields can apply for a two-year extension of OPT. OPT and STEM OPT Reporting Mandatory OPT Reporting Requirements Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home International Students Planning for Brown Arriving at Brown Currently at Brown International Scholars Before You Arrive Once You Arrive J-1 Scholars J-1 Student Interns H-1B Scholars O-1 Scholars NAFTA TN Scholars B-1/Visa Waiver for Business Working and Living Moving to Providence Health and Safety Social Security Driver's License or State I.D. Taxes Banking and Finance Legal and Immigration Resources Resources for Dependents Food, Shopping and Recreation Transportation and Hotels Traveling What to Bring When Traveling Important Travel Updates I-94 Record Travel Outside the U.S. Travel Within the U.S. Announcements Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search International Students Open details for International Students Bookmark this Page