Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Coronavirus COVID-19 right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life right arrow down arrow Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine right arrow down arrow Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures right arrow down arrow Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Home » Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) » Testing & Quarantine Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines COVID-19 Testing Campus Testing COVID-19 testing is currently available for UC students, faculty, and staff. To be tested you must pre-register and then schedule an appointment time. Testing is fast and easy. Campus Locations: Uptown - Steger Student Life Center (across from TUC and Subway) Days and Times: Please note, testing will not be available on Monday, May 30, due to the Memorial Day holiday. Mondays: Uptown - 6:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. Tuesdays: Uptown - 9:00 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Wednesdays: Uptown - 2:00 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Thursdays: Uptown - 1:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Student Only Testing Location: University Health Services: Location: Lindner Athletic Center, Main Campus How: Students must call (513) 556-2564 for an appointment. No walk-ins. Hours: Monday – Friday 9am to 5pm. Off-Campus Location: UC Health Uptown Campus: Location: 3120 Burnet Avenue (East Campus) How: Call University Health Services at 513-556-2564. Hours: Vary. No walk-ins; by appointment only. Additional testing sites are available through Test & Protect and the Health Collaborative. The student’s health insurance plan will be billed for symptomatic and exposure testing. Students who test positive for COVID-19 are expected to respond to UC's COVID Check Team in a timely manner to begin the contract tracing process. Full cooperation with contact tracers is critically important in our efforts to keep other students and members of the UC community safe. Test to Treat Test to Treat, a national initiative, provides individuals a new way to rapidly access free lifesaving treatments for COVID-19. You can now get tested and - if your test result is positive - receive a prescription from a healthcare provider, and have your prescription filled all in one location. These “One-Stop Test to Treat” locations are available at hundreds of locations nationwide, including pharmacy-based clinics near UC’s campuses. While vaccination continues to provide the best protection against COVID-19, therapies are now available to help treat eligible people who do get sick. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is providing oral antiviral pills from Merck (molnupiravir) and Pfizer (Paxlovid) directly to participating Test to Treat pharmacy-based clinics. Learn More & Find a Location Near You More information Contact uccovidcheck@ucmail.uc.edu with questions. To remember Vaccination, testing, behavioral measures (including staying home when sick), hand and surface hygiene are easy, quick and incredibly consequential ways to make sure we're each doing our part to keep ourselves and our community safer and healthier.   The university will continue to refine and update testing efforts as needed. Please note that any and all practices and policies delineated here at this time are subject to revision and updates. Testing FAQ How are tests paid for? right arrow down arrow Currently, your insurance plan will be billed for symptomatic and exposure testing performed at UHS. There is no cost for symptomatic testing that occurs on campus. Any substitute COVID test from another provider would be conducted at the student’s expense. If I obtain a PCR test from an outside provider, how do I submit that to UC? right arrow down arrow Students, faculty and staff have the option to submit a PCR test from another provider. Any substitute COVID test from another provider would be conducted at the individual's expense. An antigen or antibody test cannot be submitted, as these are significantly less reliable than the PCR test. Make submissions to UCCOVIDCheck@ucmail.uc.edu You are strongly encouraged to participate in UC testing. Testing at UC helps to assure a more seamless completion of your requirement. Going through testing at an alternative, off-campus site may result in a delay, as external testing must be manually processed once submitted. Please use ‘Exemption’ in the subject line and attach your test results. Please be sure to include your full name, date of birth and M number. What if students have questions about testing results? right arrow down arrow Questions can be addressed to uccovidcheck@ucmail.uc.edu What academic accommodations will be made for me if I’m not able to go to class? Or if I’m too sick to pursue studies? right arrow down arrow In accordance with the Faculty Senate Resolution on Class Attendance and Participation during COVID-19, faculty are encouraged to be flexible with attendance policies and other aspects of supporting academic progress – particularly for students in isolation and quarantine. Faculty are encouraged to think beyond traditional definitions of attendance and support and provide students with opportunities to make up missed work or do commensurate work. This will allow for a positive student learning experience and a commitment to delivering exemplary instruction. An incomplete grade may be awarded in the event of a student illness, which will provide an opportunity for a student to work with faculty to complete coursework after the semester concludes. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top