Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Research TCLD Texas Center for Learning Disabilities Learning decoded. The Texas Center for Learning Disabilities (TCLD) is a grant-funded research center developed to investigate the classification, early intervention, and remediation of learning disabilities (LD) with kindergarten to grade 12 students. TCLD is supported in part by a grant from the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, P50 HD052117. Continue to TCLD Research Areas Classifications of learning disabilities, including models that incorporate response to intervention (RTI) The role of attention and executive functions in reading comprehension and other academic skills Effective interventions and RTI for students at risk for, or experiencing, serious reading difficulties The neural correlates of reading disabilities in children The Science of Dyslexia The complexity and comorbidity of Dyslexia, the most common learning disability, presents a significant challenge to both researchers and educators. TCLD applies insights from neuroscientific research into brain function and plasticity, along with findings from classroom studies, to the development of practical interventions. Watch Dr. Fletcher's presentation: "A Scientific Approach to Dyslexia" Featured Stories Researchers Shift Focus to Adolescents Struggling to Read Children with reading difficulties whose first language isn’t English pose special challenges for intervention. The TCLD will tackle the issue with an $8.4 million grant from the National Institute on Child Health and Human Development. $9 Million Grant Awarded to UH to Study, Treat Learning Disabilities The National Institutes of Health (NIH) has awarded a five-year, $9 million grant to the University of Houston’s Texas Center for Learning Disabilities to conduct research on the causes and treatment of learning disabilities in children and adolescents. UH is one of four universities nationally to receive funding from the NIH for a learning disability research center. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies