Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Career and Technical Education MSEd You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Career and Technical Education MSEd Apply Visit Request More Info Career and Technical Education MSEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Education in Career and Technical Education Earn the credentials to achieve leadership positions within the workforce development field by earning the online Master of Science in Education in Career and Technical Education. Gain the expertise to manage curriculum development, a training center or an instructional team. Learn the skills necessary to help students acquire jobs in specific industries. By the end of the Career and Technical Education MSEd program, you will earn the Career and Technical Education Director certificate and the Career and Technical Education Supervisor certificate. This master’s degree is distributed evenly among core, career and technical education, and elective coursework. The course material pushes you to learn how to develop curriculum programs; get up to speed with industry trends; hone your teaching skills for a variety of occupations; manage technical/training center resources; and implement current standards in secondary education programs. Teaching Certificates The Career and Technical Education Supervisor and Career and Technical Education Director certificates confer the administrative credentials typically held by program or technical center directors. The Career and Technical Education Supervisor Certificate is earned after the completion of 15 credits or five courses and prepares you to provide leadership to technical schools. The Career and Technical Education Director Certificate is earned after the completion of the remaining 15 program credits. It confers credentials in the workforce development field that are equivalent to those of a public school district superintendent. Classes & Curriculum This master’s degree consists of 30 credits, or 10 courses, plus a capstone. The capstone comprises an internship course in leadership at a career and technology center. See the required courses. Delivery Method This degree is completed entirely online and can be pursued full- or part-time. Related Graduate Degrees Accomplished Teaching MSEd Career and Technical Education MEd Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science in Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Ronald Roth is the director of leadership, professional development and cooperative education. Email: ronald.roth@temple.edu Our Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-CTE-MSED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Career and Technical Education MSEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info