Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityCollege of Health Sciences College of Health Sciences Academic Programs Undergraduate majors Biomedical Sciences Exercise Science Medical Laboratory Science Speech Pathology and Audiology Advanced degrees Master of Athletic Training Master of Physician Assistant Studies Master of Speech-Language Pathology Advanced degrees (Continued) Doctoral Program in Occupational Therapy Doctoral Program in Physical Therapy Ph.D. in Neuroscience M.S./Ph.D. in Exercise & Rehabilitation Science M.S. in Sports & Exercise Data Analytics Pre-Dental Post Baccalaureate Program Medical Laboratory Science Certificate Program The science that heals Our programs capture the imaginations of students while exposing them to virtually endless possibilities. Contact us For more information about our programs, contact the dean's office at (414) 288-5053. Students Prospective students General program and course information Meet our students Health sciences professional programs Careers for health sciences graduates Current students Health sciences online forms Marquette Central (forms, financial aid, billing/payment) Undergraduate bulletin Advising resources Graduate student information Career Services for students Letter of recommendation service Sign up for our newsletter Continuing Education Upcoming courses Credentialed Clinical Instructor Program (CCIP Level I) CCIP Level II Neuroanatomical Dissection Course More courses Marquette Presents Marquette Presents is a research series on issues of community health. Faculty/Staff Directory Faculty & staff by department College of Health Sciences dean's office Athletic Training Biomedical Sciences Exercise Science Medical Laboratory Science Physical Therapy Physician Assistant Studies Speech Pathology and Audiology Alumni College of Health Sciences Nationally ranked, distinctive destination programs. The science that heals Hands-on learning and instruction in clinical and professional practice. Research Opportunities The college provides a variety of research opportunities for students. Our college features nationally recognized and ranked programs in the fields of science and healthcare. Learn more about our undergraduate, graduate and professional programs. News and Events Welcome to the College of Health Sciences It is a pleasure to welcome you to the College of Health Sciences at Marquette University. Our college features nationally recognized and ranked programs in athletic training, biomedical sciences, medical laboratory science, exercise physiology, occupational therapy, physical therapy, physician assistant studies, and speech and language pathology. Read more. OTD program accepting applications for third class The entry-level clinical occupational therapy doctorate program is accepting applications — learn more about the program and apply today. 8th edition of the "Netter Atlas of Anatomy" published with help of two Health Sciences faculty members Dr. Iuzzini-Seigel awarded $1.1 million grant from Once Upon a Time Foundation Marquette Physical Therapy Clinic celebrates 10 years Alumna Vlada Snyder working to help victims of domestic violence during the pandemic Read the latest issue of the College of Health Sciences magazine Quick Links Our mission Prospective students Careers for CHS graduates Donate to CHS Employee Wellness HPAC - Human Performance Assessment Core Marquette Physical Therapy Clinic Pre-dental Scholars Program Pre-Medical, Pre-Dental Students Pre-health Advising Center CHS Viewbook Sign-up for CHS Newsletter Student Resources Alumni PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact alexander.nemec@marquette.edu. College of Health Sciences on Social Media The Science that Heals Watch the Beyond MU presentation on successful aging concerning communication and cognition. Pre-health Advising The Center for Pre-health Advising is ready to help you find your place among the thousands of Marquette alumni doctors, dentists and other professionals around the world. INRC The Integrative Neuroscience Research Center serves to promote the exchange of ideas among Marquette neuroscience research faculty members. Location Marquette University Schroeder Complex Annex, Room 244 Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (414) 288-5053 Key Resources Campus contacts Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©