Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give About Us Student Well-Being Resources 'Canes Care for 'Canes News Give Search About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give Well-Being and Resiliency Parents and Families Emotional Well-Being Environmental Well-Being Financial Well-Being Intellectual Well-Being Occupational Well-Being Physical Well-Being Social Well-Being Spiritual Well-Being Healthy 'Cane Network About Us About Us Resources Leadership Staff Support News Give Home Student Well-Being and Resiliency AAA To be a successful learner and give yourself the best opportunity for a bright future, it is important to prioritize your own well-being. We know that the challenges and stress that come with college life can be unexpected and that you may not know how to rise above every obstacle you face. We are here to help you understand the eight dimensions of well-being and recognize those aspects of your life that need attention. By taking advantage of the many mental and physical health programs and services offered, you will be equipped with the necessary dynamic resiliency, coping, and conflict management skills to address personal and interpersonal challenges in life. RESOURCES FOR PARENTS AND FAMILIES Dimensions of Well-Being Emotional Managing your emotions in healthy and constructive ways to cope with life’s challenges. Counseling Center Dean of Students Office 'Canes Care for 'Canes Programs and Resources Environmental Acknowledging how your choices and actions impact the world around you. Green U Outdoor Adventures Gifford Arboretum Office of Emergency Management Programs and Resources Financial Making informed decisions about your resources to maintain a fulfilling lifestyle. Money Management Program Student Employment 'Canes Central Programs and Resources Intellectual Expanding your personal collection of knowledge and applying it in your life. Camner Center for Academic Resources Learning Commons Undergraduate Advising 'Cane Success Center Office of Academic Enhancement Undergraduate Research Civic and Community Engagement Programs and Resources Occupational Participating in work that provides satisfaction and is consistent with your values. Toppel Career Center Student Employment Peer Education Programs Programs and Resources Physical Making active choices that benefit the health of your body. Wellness and Recreation Student Health Service UM Dining Sandler Center Programs and Resources Social Developing and maintaining connections that allow you to form a community of mutual support. Student Life Student Organizations Housing and Residential Life Commuter and Transfer Assistants Recreational Sports Programs and Resources Spiritual Creating your sense of purpose and acknowledging the beliefs that drive you towards your goals. Chaplains Association Student Organizations Programs and Resources Student Well-Being Newsletter The Student Well-Being Newsletter introduces students to the eight dimensions of well-being through educational health content and highlighted supportive programs, services, and events. It is sent to all undergraduate students every three weeks during the academic year. View an archive of this year's issues below: April 20, 2022 March 29, 2022 March 8, 2022 February 15, 2022 January 25, 2022 November 2, 2021 October 12, 2021 September 21, 2021 August 31, 2021 Prioritizing Student Well-Being and Resiliency As part of its strategic planning process, the Division of Student Affairs identified student well-being and resiliency as a top priority. The Healthy 'Cane Network is a collaborative effort within the Division that supports well-being and fosters an environment where students can exceed their potential now and into the future. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Division of Student Affairs 1252 Memorial Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4922 305-284-4922 vpsa@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices