Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Geography and Urban Studies Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Geography and Urban Studies Major Apply Visit Request More Info Geography and Urban Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Geography and Urban Studies Explore the complex relationship between environments and societies with the Bachelor of Arts in Geography and Urban Studies in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. Develop the expertise to identify, understand and respond to real-world urban problems and global challenges. Gain comprehension around urban politics, planning and policymaking. This 123-credit undergraduate program provides the tools to address environmental, economic, social and political issues that are central to the well-being of people in an urbanizing world. Strengthen your writing, communication and research skills and learn technical skills in geographic information systems (GIS). Your courses and research will expand your knowledge of subjects like geographic theory, health and the environment, planning and policymaking, social and environmental justice, urban processes and more. Design your career path by developing a personalized curriculum that focuses on one or more of the following themes. Geographic methods Globalization Social justice Sustainability The Geography and Urban Studies BA prepares students for careers in consulting, government and nonprofit sectors. Many of our students advance to graduate studies in environmental studies, geography, law or urban planning. Graduates are equipped to enter a number of growing fields. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) forecasts a 13% growth in employment for urban and regional planners by 2026. The BLS also forecasts a 7% growth in employment for geographers, which is the average growth rate for all occupations. Students can also earn the Geographic Information Systems Undergraduate Certificate. Classes & Curriculum The Geography and Urban Studies Major is a 123-credit undergraduate program that can be completed over four years of full-time study. Geography and Urban Studies electives give students the opportunity to develop an area of emphasis around their particular interests. Examples of required and elective courses students take in the program include the following. African Americans in Philadelphia Cities Fundamentals of Geographic Information Systems Research Design in Geography and Urban Studies Space and Place Spatial Statistics Sustainable Cities Urban Systems in a Global Economy Students are required to complete an individualized research project in the Senior Research Seminar course. Learn more about required courses for the Geography and Urban Studies BA. Related Graduate Degrees Geography and Urban Studies MA Geography and Urban Studies PhD Geographic Information Systems PSM Related Graduate Certificate Geographic Information Systems Graduate Certificate 4+1 Accelerated Degree Program The Geography and Urban Studies MA is open to Geography and Urban Studies and Environmental Studies majors. The master’s program prepares students for further graduate study as well as for professional positions related to urban and economic development, environmental sustainability and social justice. Students can apply as early as second semester sophomore year for entry in their junior year, or they can apply as late as the second semester of their junior year for entry in their senior year. Learn more about accelerated degree programs in the College of Liberal Arts. Double Major If you plan to become a teacher, you may double major through Temple’s College of Education. The double major combines the Geography and Urban Studies Major with a major in social studies education. Learn more about the double major. Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Geography and Urban Studies Major, contact the following staff member. Liz Janczewski is the coordinator in the Geography and Urban Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-3386 Email: liz.janczewski@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Geography and Urban Studies Department. Melissa Gilbert is the chair of the Geography and Urban Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-5482 Email: mgilbert@temple.edu Kevin Henry is the undergraduate chair of the Geography and Urban Studies Department. Email: khenry1@temple.edu Vicki Giammarco is the senior manager of administration in the Geography and Urban Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-7692 Email: vicki.giammarco@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. The following student organizations may be of interest to students in the Geography and Urban Studies Major program. Gamma Theta Epsilon is an international geographical honor society that recognizes and supports geography’s next generation of leaders. Students are nominated based on GPA. The Geography & Urban Studies / Environmental Studies Student Association focuses on geographic information systems, urban agriculture, sustainability and social justice through guest speakers and group outings. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your Temple experience by immersing yourself in new cultures, histories and perspectives in countries such as China, Germany, Ghana and Italy, as well as at Temple’s Rome and Tokyo campuses. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-GUS-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Geography and Urban Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info