COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Linguistics, Minor MinorLinguistics All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Linguistics Wichita State's minor in linguistics is a useful addition to many majors such as foreign language, psychology, English and education. The minor equips you with knowledge of how language works, how it's used and how it changes—and is excellent preparation for graduate study and a wide range of careers. Learn how linguistics is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum To complete the 15-credit-hour linguistics minor, you'll select courses from three groups, including: Basic Linguistic Theory Study of Specific Languages or Language Groups (French, Russian, Spanish, Romance Linguistics or Old English) Areas of Contact Between Linguistics and Other Disciplines View the curriculum Careers A minor in linguistics from Wichita State will give you the knowledge and skills to pursue further language study—and opens doors to careers at home and abroad. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Communication Sciences and Disorders French Spanish German (Minor) Philosophy 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©