Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu City and Regional Planning About Programs People Research/Outreach Giving Design Collaborative Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Apply to Our Master's Program Assistantships and Financial Support Contact Us! SUAPP Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Planning Research/Outreach City and Regional Planning Research/Outreach Memphis Music Magnet / Memphis Slim Collaboratory Faculty and students worked with community partners and industry stakeholders on the development of the Memphis Music Magnet. The plan builds on the cultural assets and heritage of the Soulsville USA neighborhood and seeks to create a community where music and art tell stories, activate spaces, reclaim vacant buildings, create interaction, and connect neighbors new and old. The university-community partnership has received significant external funding including a $678,000 grant from ArtPlace, a national consortium of philanthropic foundations. The Memphis Symphony Orchestra (MSO) engaged in a yearlong residency in the Soulsville neighborhood with programming that included a series of unique musical collaborations performed in currently vacant community spaces, mentoring at neighborhood schools, programs for youth and seniors, and leadership training for area neighborhood associations. To host the MSO concerts and other cultural activities, a vacant grocery store at a key neighborhood location was reimagined and repurposed as a temporary performance venue. The kickoff event at the venue featured Soulsville native and soul legend Booker T. Jones alongside the symphony and youth performers from the Stax Music Academy. The Memphis Slim Collaboratory opened in April 2014 during the annual Stax to the Max festival. The former home of blues legend Memphis Slim was redeveloped as a music-centered community space for artistic collaboration, music training and storytelling. Members of Slim's family came from Chicago and California to attend the opening reception and honor the music legend. The membership-based Collaboratory, managed by two full-time staff, is equipped with video-casting rooms to record oral histories, and is anchored by a recording studio. The studio is run on a cooperative basis to support emerging artists as well as apprentices learning the production business. The building was designed by br3gs Architects and has been recognized with numerous awards, including: American Institute of Architect's TN Award of Merit, Builder Magazine's Builder's Choice Award, and American-Architect's Building of the Week. Grant funding from ArtPlace America and the Kresge Foundation supported the redevelopment and staffing of the Collaboratory. www.memphisslimhouse.org Bike friendly university technical review Memphis' Bikeway/Pedestrian Program Manager and University of Memphis planning alumnus, Kyle Wagenschutz, led a 2014 Project Planning Studio course focused on bicycling improvements in and around the university. Students prepared an application to the League of American Bicyclists (LAB) to certify the University of Memphis as a Bike Friendly University and developed a set of short-term and long-term recommendations. The classroom approach to preparing the BFU application has been adopted as a best practice by LAB and has become a model for other universities. Economic Development in Memphis A research brief prepared by the students of PLAN 7011: Planning and the Metro Economy. The purpose of that report was to determine what "economic development" currently means in Memphis -- as defined by policies and actions -- in order to lay a foundation for what economic development could or should mean, and for how economic development policies can become part of a comprehensive approach to planning. West Memphis EcoPark Awarded a Memphis Regional Greenprint Plan planning sub-grant, the Department partnered with the City of West Memphis to complete plans for the West Memphis EcoPark. The Spring 2014 Project Planning Studio course guided the process of planning for a greenspace amenity on undeveloped land at the western terminus of the Harahan Bridge. The EcoPark is designed to complement Big River Crossing, which will convert a portion of the Harahan Bridge over the Mississippi into a bicycle and pedestrian pathway. Brownsville on the Move: A Comprehensive Plan for Creating a More Vibrant, Sustainable, and Just Community Comprehensive Plan: Part I Part II Part III Vance Avenue Collaborative Vance Avenue Community Transformation Plan Vance Avenue Renaissance Plan (prepared by the Neighborhood Subcommittee) Preliminary Planning Framework Data Book Media: WMCTV - Taking Back Our Neighborhoods Memphis Daily News coverage Grow Memphis coverage of the Vance Avenue Garden University of Memphis video overview South Memphis Revitalization Action Plan Fact Sheet Executive Summary Plan Display Boards Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.