Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Dance Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Dance Major Apply Visit Request More Info Dance Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Audition Requirements Bachelor of Fine Arts in Dance Develop a balanced set of skills in dance technique, performance, choreography and theory with the Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) in Dance in Temple University Boyer College of Music and Dance. This 124-credit undergraduate degree program gives students intensive training in a range of dance genres, including ballet, modern and postmodern, and African diasporic forms. Students also form the foundation for choreography, dance history, theory and performance. The curriculum integrates a range of dance techniques with investigation of composition, creative process, dance science, improvisation and repertory. A sequence of theory courses explore analytical, cultural and historical approaches to the study of dance so you form a deeper understanding of the discipline. Throughout your time in the program, you’ll have multiple opportunities to perform at Temple’s Conwell Dance Theater, culminating in a senior concert during your final year. Graduates of this bachelor's program have gone on to be artistic directors, choreographers, dance educators and therapists, entrepreneurs, dance administrators and dance writers. Some continue on to master's and doctoral studies to prepare for futures in research and advocacy. This degree program may be completed on Main Campus during the fall or spring semester. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover dance faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer dance degree programs. Classes & Curriculum As a student of the Dance BFA, you will further develop your cognitive, analytic, intuitive and creative skills—all while learning a variety of forms within a historical, social and cultural framework. A few courses you can anticipate exploring are Dance Science and Somatics, Music for Dancers and Ways of Knowing Dance. Learn more about Dance BFA degree courses. Related Graduate Degrees Dance MA Dance MFA Dance PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Fine Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $19,032.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,408.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Norma Porter is the representative for Dance admissions and recruitment. Phone: 215-204-0533 Email: dance@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. D2D: Dare To Dance is a dance company that strives to spread a love of the arts through dance, performance and workshops. D2D competes in local competitions, such as Battle on Broad, and national competitions, like Prelude Urban Dance Competition and World of Dance. Esencia Latina provides students with the opportunity to explore, educate, and experience the Latino culture through the art form of dance and perform for the community and university. Ladies of Elegance Step is the only recognized, all-female, non-Greek step organization at Temple's Main Campus. The group promotes fitness, health and self-confidence among its members while cultivating the art of stepping. Ladies of Elegance Step represents Temple University at competitions along the East Coast. Temple Breakers, the first official break-dancing organization at Temple University, provides practice spaces for dancers of all experience levels, as well as free workshops led by professional dancers working in the greater Philadelphia area. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offers all full-time, degree-seeking students the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Host countries include Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Study abroad advisors will help you with your study abroad plans for either a Temple program or an external program. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-DANC-BFA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Dance Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Audition Requirements Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info