Skip to main content Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search Search Request info Apply Admissions Admissions Freshmen expand_more Freshman Admission Requirements add College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) College-Level Work In High School Homeschooled Students Pathways To Promise Freshman FAQs International Freshmen add Community College Option Upcoming School Visits Transfer Students expand_more Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) Guaranteed Admission Dual Enrollment Program International Transfer Students Transfer Admissions Requirements Transfer Credit Policies add Course Equivalency Guide Transfer FAQs Graduate Students Majors & Degrees expand_more Schools & Programs Tuition & Financial Aid expand_more Cost of Attendance Net Price Calculator The Husky Promise Tuition add Other Fees Using the GI Bill Visit Campus expand_more Campus Tours add Virtual Campus Tour Future Husky Events Group Visits Meet Your Advisor Request Information Apply Now expand_more How to apply: Freshman add English Language Proficiency Submitting Standardized Test Scores Submitting Transcripts Writing Your Personal Statement How to apply: Transfer add Achievements And Activities English Language Proficiency Submitting Standardized Test Scores Submitting Transcripts Writing Your Personal Statement How to apply: Graduate I applied. Now What? I was Admitted add Confirm Your Enrollment Parent FAQ Important Dates MyUW Map Tools Apply Now 2022 Applications Now Open Not sure which application to use? Review our guide. UW Tacoma applicants use CollegeNET, which requires you to create an account and submit a nonrefundable application fee. Your application does not have to be completed in one session; you can log in and work on your application whenever you want. You do not pay the application fee until you have completed your application. A credit or debit card is required to pay the fee. You will only be considered for admission based on one undergraduate application per quarter and may only have one active application per application cycle at a time. If you have any questions about completing your application, please contact us at 253-692-4742 or via email at uwtinfo@uw.edu. Applications Freshman Application fee: $60 Freshman application deadlines Freshman admission requirements Note: If you've already created a Coalition application account, you can use your Coalition credentials to log into the UW Tacoma application. Both applications are hosted by the same service. How to apply? Freshman Application Transfer Application fee: $60 Transfer application deadlines Transfer admission requirements How to apply? Transfer application Graduate Application fee: $85 How to apply? Graduate School Application International Student Application fee: $75 International freshman requirements International transfer requirements International Application Returning Student Fee: $60 Deadline is no later than two weeks prior to the start of the quarter of attendance Returning student form Non-matriculating Application fee: $60 Non-matriculating (non-degree-seeking) requirements Application deadline is no later than two weeks prior to the start of the quarter of attendance Non-matriculating application Dual Enrollment Application fee: $60 Dual enrollment admission requirements Dual enrollment application Post-baccalaureate Application fee: $60 Use the transfer application Select a program (or "undeclared") and check "post-baccalaureate" under application type Post-baccalaureate admission requirements Post-baccalaureate application RESOURCES Important Dates Financial Aid Washington State Residency Setting Up Your UW Account Selecting Your Application Type Disability Resources Admissions Advising Meet with an admissions advisor to get answers to specific questions or help with your application. Call 253-692-4742 to schedule an appointment Monday through Friday, between 9 a.m. - 4 p.m. Talk to an Advisor Disability support The University of Washington Tacoma is committed to providing access, equal opportunity and reasonable accommodation in its services, programs, activities, education and employment for individuals with disabilities. To request disability accommodations in the application process, please contact Disability Resources for Students at 253-692-4508 (voice), 253-692-4413 (TTY), 253-692-4602 (FAX) or drsuwt@uw.edu. Campus crime statistics As provided by the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act of 1998, applicants are entitled to request and receive a copy of the Annual Security Report of the University of Washington Tacoma. All security reports for the University of Washington Tacoma are available online. Nondiscrimination policy The University of Washington Tacoma reaffirms its policy of equal opportunity regardless of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, or status as a disabled veteran or Vietnam era veteran. This policy applies to all programs and facilities, including, but not limited to, admissions, educational programs, and employment. Any discriminatory action can be a cause for disciplinary action. Discrimination is prohibited by Presidential Executive Order 11246 as amended, Washington State Gubernatorial Executive Orders 89-01 and 93-07, Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Washington State Law Against Discrimination RCW 49.60, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, State of Washington Gender Equity in Higher Education Act of 1989, sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 as amended, Age Discrimination Act of 1975, Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of 1972 as amended, other federal and state statutes, regulations and university policy. Breadcrumb Home Admissions Apply Now Contact Admissions email uwtinfo@uw.edu phone_iphone 253-692-4742 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy