Skip to main content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Libraries and Spaces Spaces Hours and Locations All of our libraries' hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Spaces See our creative workspaces for individual and collaborative scholarly enquiry including: bookable rooms, teaching spaces, lockers and longterm study rooms. Libraries Baker-Berry Library At the heart of campus, Baker-Berry Library is home to the humanities and social sciences collections, classrooms, study and social spaces, several academic centers, a letterpress studio, and more. Biomedical Libraries Dana Biomedical Library and Matthews-Fuller Health Sciences Library support the disciplines of health and life sciences across campus and at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center. Evans Map Room Over 189,000 sheet maps and 3000 atlases, books, journals, CD-ROMS, computer software, globes, and aerial photos. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support and resources for the students, faculty, and staff at two of Dartmouth's professional schools, the Tuck School of Business and Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities, collections, equipment and expertise for researching, viewing and producing a wide range of media. Rauner Special Collections Library Rauner’s collections—which are available for all to use—include more than 100,000 rare books, millions of manuscripts, and the extensive Dartmouth College Archives. Sherman Art Library Sherman supports the departments of art history and studio art and the Hood Museum of Art with print and digital resources, including an image database and a special collection of rare items. Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Accessibility Book a Study Room Floor Guides Lockers Scholarly Longterm Studies Teaching Spaces Hours and Locations Baker-Berry Library Biomedical Libraries Evans Map Room Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Jones Media Center Rauner Special Collections Library Sherman Art Library About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy