Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Ohio recognizes UC's efforts to welcome veterans UC has seen increasing enrollment among veterans and their dependents By Michael Miller Email MichaelEmail Michael 513-556-6757 May 27, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like The University of Cincinnati this week was among the first universities to be recognized by Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine for its efforts to support students with military backgrounds. DeWine awarded UC and 31 other colleges and universities with a Collegiate Purple Star Award recognizing its efforts to create a military-friendly campus. “Thank you for being examples of Ohio’s proud tradition of honoring our servicemen and women,” DeWine said. “With these Collegiate Purple Star Award designations, service members, veterans and military-connected students are able to pursue higher education knowing that their school has the necessary support system and guidance to help them find their next steps.” UC launched a Veteran Task Force in 2019 to increase the recruitment and retention of diverse and highly skilled veteran faculty, staff and students. UC has seen increasing enrollment of U.S. veterans, who represent about 4% of the UC student body. Last year, 376 veterans or dependents of veterans graduated from UC. Nationwide, more than 650,000 veterans each year use military benefits to pursue higher education. UC has seen increasing enrollment among members of the military and their dependents. Photo/Jay Yocis/UC Creative + Brand Terence Harrison, manager of UC’s Veterans Programs and Services, credited UC President Neville Pinto and the work of Felica Wallace and Debra Merchant in UC’s Division of Student Affairs for helping to make UC a welcome place for Ohio’s veterans. UC regularly takes part in military job fairs to recruit and attract qualified veterans for faculty and staff positions and for its undergraduate and graduate programs. “We make sure they know about the wonderful offerings available at UC,” Harrison said. UC also works to help veterans or their dependents make the transition from military to academic life, he said. “We have student veteran mentors whose goal is to help new student veterans in their transition from military to academia,” Harrison said. “They help them get acclimated and know where to find assistance. And just know that someone at UC cares about them.” UC hosts an annual stair run at Nippert Stadium to remember the victims of 9/11. And the university commemorates Veterans Day each year. “This demonstrates that Ohio is veteran friendly,” said Harrison, a U.S. Army veteran. “It’s an honor to be one of the first schools in Ohio to receive this award. We’ll wear this badge proudly.” Featured image at top: Veterans and their dependents make up 4% of UC's enrollment. Photo/Jay Yocis/UC Creative + Brand Become a Bearcat Whether you’re a first-generation student or from a family of Bearcats, UC is proud to support you at every step along your journey. We want to make sure you succeed — and feel right at home. Apply today. Tags Student Experience Next Lives Here Academic Excellence Veteran's Affairs Related Stories Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top