Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content × Close Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Visiting Seton Hall Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Visiting Seton Hall Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now Experiential Learning Education Through Experience Experiential learning allows students to hone their skills in real-world settings while making a positive impact on their own future and the communities around them. Students make real connections that open doors through opportunities such as faculty-led research, hands-on lab experience, running marketing events for a sports team, managing a radio broadcast, serving meals at a local soup kitchen or studying in Italy. Seton Hall University Office of the Provost Internships Explore hundreds of internships at businesses and institutions in the NYC area through our award-winning career center. Community Outreach and Servant Leadership Respond to local and global community needs through direct service and reflection. Clinical Rotations and Field Placement Become career-ready for professional success through required clinical rotations and field placements. Faculty-mentored Student Research Experiences Hands-on research projects help develop critical thinking, data analysis, presentation skills, and the exploration of original ideas. Study Abroad Globalize your education through study abroad! Spend anywhere from a week to an entire year abroad. Your adventure awaits you. Prestigious Fellowships Compete for prestigious fellowships that yield national and international experiential learning opportunities. Artistic Performance and Expression Explore creative communication and expression through the arts. Professional Competitions, Challenges and Bootcamps Competitions raise awareness about career opportunities and encourage students to learn from, and network with, leaders across professions. "College is a place to try a lot of new things and Seton Hall provided me with experiential opportunities that helped my professional development and discover a passion in sports media. It started out with getting involved with WSOU 89.5FM and Pirate Television and it transitioned to me being able to broadcast big college basketball games, obtain internships with Seton Hall Athletics and SiriusXM, and land part time jobs with Audacy and SiriusXM" Wilnir Louis, ’21 – Sports Management Major, Sports Media Minor and current graduate student in the MA in Communication program. M.A. in Museum Professions Online Information Session Wednesday, May 25 Releasing the DOVEs: Appalachia Mission Trip Application Saturday, June 11 Data Privacy & Security Compliance Program Tuesday, June 14 Experiential Learning Stats 40,000+ Hours Vounteered Annually 92% Employment Rate Amongst Graduates 81% of Students in Internships 100+ countries available for study abroad opportunities 130+ Student Clubs and Organizations At Seton Hall, students learn through lectures and classroom discussion as well through hands-on experience. Experiential experiences mean students learn by first doing—then analyzing and reflecting. This approach reinforces knowledge acquisition and spurs creativity and focus. Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top