Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Students Contact your Advisor Advising Resources and Tools Transfer Credit Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation College Credit Plus Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact 15 to Finish Students FAQ Resources For Advisors UC Advising Conference About Organization Advising Strategic Plan Assessment Home 15 to Finish Students Students SEE YOUR ADVISOR As a UC student you have an academic advisor to provide you with critical information, help you to clarify your goals, and strategize with you about your path to graduation. Advisors can help you identify additional opportunities based on your goals and furthermore direct you to the campus resources you need in order to succeed at UC. Reach out to your advisor to find out, how you can graduate on time. Schedule an appointment using Starfish or look up your college advising center. MAKE A PLAN Talk with your advisor and use your degree audit to make sure you are taking the right classes and adjust accordingly. Remember, taking 15 is about taking the right 15! Furthermore, knowing that you are in the right degree program is important. Most students change majors at some point during their studies. Make sure your program is right for you, and talk with your advisor about the demands of the major and what options are available. GRADUATE ON TIME The more time you spend on your studies, the more likely you are to get better grades. Devoting more time to your studies also allows you to take more credit hours, putting you on track to graduate on time. Don’t forget to account for the amount of study time college demands outside the classroom. You should plan to spend at least two study hours per enrolled credit hour. If you're taking 15 credit hours, plan for 30 study hours: 15 credit hours + 30 study hours = 45 hours per week Think about your total time commitments including class, study, sleep, eating, work, family care, social, relaxation, fitness, etc. If you are not already, get in the habit of planning your week, using a scheduling template, a day planner, the calendar on your phone, or one of the many time management apps available for smartphones and tablets. ACADEMIC RESOURCES Academic Coaching Academic Writing Center Counseling & Psychological Services First Year Experience General Education Honors Program Learning Assistance Center (Tutoring) Math & Science Support Center (MASS) Peer Tutoring Testing Services Advising Portal More Resources FAQ Office of Advising & Academic Services 2618 McMicken Circle University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221-0202 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.