Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Comparative Literature Ph.D. school Graduate School department Comparative Literature Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Comparative Literature at Brown is a vigorous and comprehensive program in literature and culture. Since the founding of the graduate program in 1964, comparative literature has evolved to include not only Western cultures, both ancient and modern, but also Chinese, Japanese, Korean and Arabic. The department, in cooperation with the various literature departments and programs, offers a wide array of courses in literature, literary theory, and cultural studies. The faculty includes over twenty-five members of professorial rank with appointments wholly or partly in the department. As members of a medium-sized department in a relatively small university, graduate students enjoy unusual opportunities for close contact in and outside of the classroom. Students receive close guidance, including job–search preparation. The program accommodates a wide range of individual emphases in literature and culture, periods, genres, history, criticism, and theory. We hold several colloquia, lectures, and forums each year. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Writing Sample: Required (10 double-spaced pages maximum; we cannot read longer samples) Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 15, 2021 Completion Requirements Fifteen courses; three languages, one of which may be the candidate's native language; four semesters of teaching; professional competence in a major literature and in two others; major literature examination; a comparative project in the third year; dissertation and defense. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Susan Bernstein susan_bernstein@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Marc Redfield marc_redfield@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Comparative Literature Location Address 36 Prospect Street Mailing Address Brown University Box 1935 Comp_Lit@brown.edu 401-863-2818 Department of Comparative Literature Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Comparative Literature Open details for Comparative Literature Bookmark this Page