Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences Computer Science AC 101 Paul G. Allen Center for Computer Science & Engineering 206-543-1695 Website Faculty Website Computer Science & Engineering (CSE) educates students to become leaders in the design and implementation of the computing systems that touch every aspect of modern society. Our courses cover everything from the mathematical foundations of what computers can and cannot do; to hands-on experiences building software and hardware artifacts with a range of programming languages and tools; to advanced courses in software engineering, human-computer interaction, computer graphics and animation, artificial intelligence, machine learning, large-scale data management, natural language processing, computer networking, computational biology, robotics, computer security and privacy, and much more. Computer scientists and computer engineers combine creative problem-solving, rigorous design, and the creation of algorithms, software, and hardware systems to build solutions that change the world. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Computer Science Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Computer Science Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Computer Science: Data Science Undergraduate Program Computer Science 101 Paul G. Allen Center for Computer Science & Engineering 206-543-1695 ugrad-advisor@cs.washington.edu Program of Study: Major: Computer Science Program Overview CSE offers two undergraduate degrees: Computer Science (through the College of Arts and Sciences) and Computer Engineering (through the College of Engineering). Students working toward either degree have the same broad opportunities to take the wide array of courses that CSE offers. The Computer Science major may be more appropriate for students who are primarily interested in the design of software systems and applications, or who want to earn a double major with another College of Arts and Sciences program. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Computer Science Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Computer Science: Data Science Admission Requirements Applicants are considered in three groups - Entering Freshmen, Currently Enrolled UW Students, and Entering Transfers. Admission is capacity constrained. Completion of minimum requirements does not guarantee admission. Entering Freshmen: The largest pathway for admission to Computer Science is directly out of high school, prior to completion of university-level prerequisites. Freshman applicants listing Computer Science as their intended major are automatically considered. Competitive applicants have usually taken the equivalent of four years of high school mathematics and at least one year of high school laboratory science upon entering the University. Admission is for autumn only. Currently Enrolled UW Students: A portion of each year's class is admitted after matriculating to UW. Admission is for autumn or spring quarter. Application deadlines: July 1 for autumn and January 15 for spring. To be considered, applicants must meet the following course requirements: MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126 (or MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136); minimum five credits of Natural World, including one of the following: PHYS 121 (or PHYS 141), CHEM 142 (or CHEM 143 or CHEM 145), or BIOL 180 (or any approved science course that requires one of these courses as a prerequisite); CSE 142, CSE 143; at least five credits of English composition. Entering Transfers: A portion of each year's class is admitted from students transferring from another college or university. Admission is for autumn or spring quarter only. Transfer applicants are considered based on their University transfer application and supplemental material provided to the Allen School. Application deadlines: April 5 for autumn quarter and January 15 for spring quarter. Applicants interested in transferring from an institution that does not offer equivalent coursework should reach out to the Allen School advising team before applying. Applicants must identify Computer Science as their intended major, and indicate they will begin the major immediately upon transferring. Entering transfer applicants must meet the following requirements: Minimum 30 graded college credits completed by the University transfer application deadline. Minimum course requirements needed for the Allen School supplemental application: MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126; one of PHYS 121 (or PHYS 141), CHEM 142 (or CHEM 143 or CHEM 145), or BIOL 180; CSE 142, CSE 143; and at least five credits of English composition. These courses must be completed by the Allen School supplemental application deadline. Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Computer Science Credential Overview CSE offers two undergraduate degrees: Computer Science (through the College of Arts and Sciences) and Computer Engineering (through the College of Engineering). Students working toward either degree have the same broad opportunities to take the wide array of courses that CSE offers. The Computer Science major may be more appropriate for students who are primarily interested in the design of software systems and applications, or who want to earn a double major with another College of Arts and Sciences program. Completion Requirements 87-90 Credits Science (10 credits): 10 credits from the list of approved natural science courses on the Allen School website. Courses that meet the department's science requirement include PHYS 121 (or PHYS 141), CHEM 142 (or CHEM 143 or CHEM 145), BIOL 180, and any course in biology, chemistry, physics, earth and space sciences, astronomy, and atmospheric sciences that requires PHYS 121 (or PHYS 141), CHEM 142 (or CHEM143 or CHEM 145), or BIOL 180 as a prerequisite. Mathematics (15-18 credits): MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126, (or MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136); MATH 208 (waived if MATH 136 taken) Required Courses (29 credits): CSE 142, CSE 143, CSE 311, CSE 312, CSE 331, CSE 332, CSE 351 Senior Electives: 33 additional credits from courses on the approved CSE electives list on the Allen School website, of which at least 20 credits must be at the 400-level. The following must be included: Six courses from the CSE core courses list on the Allen School website of which four courses must be 400-level CSE courses Either one additional course from the CSE core courses list or one course from the CSE capstone list on the Allen School website. Minimum 2.0 grade for any course applied to the major. Transfer students must earn a minimum of 24 graded credits toward the major through the UW. Back to Top Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Computer Science: Data Science Credential Overview Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) offers two undergraduate degrees: Computer Science (through the College of Arts & Sciences) and Computer Engineering (through the College of Engineering). Students working toward either degree have the same broad opportunities to take the wide array of courses that CSE offers. The Computer Science major may be more appropriate for students who are primarily interested in the design of software systems and applications, or who want to earn a double major with another College of Arts & Sciences program. Students in Computer Science may also decide to pursue a data science option. Completion Requirements 87-90 Credits Science (10 credits): 10 credits from the list of approved natural science courses on the Allen School website. Courses that meet the department's science requirement include PHYS 121 (or PHYS 141), CHEM 142 (or CHEM 143 or CHEM 145), BIOL 180, and any course in biology, chemistry, physics, earth and space sciences, astronomy, and atmospheric sciences that requires PHYS 121 (or PHYS 141), CHEM 142 (or CHEM143 or CHEM 145), or BIOL 180 as a prerequisite. Mathematics (15-18 credits): MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126, (or MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136); MATH 208 (waived if MATH 136 taken) Required Courses (29 credits): CSE 142, CSE 143, CSE 311, CSE 312, CSE 331, CSE 332, CSE 351 Senior Electives: 33 additional credits from courses on the approved CSE electives list on the Allen School website, of which at least 20 credits must be at the 400-level. The following must be included: Six courses from the CSE core courses list on the Allen School website of which four courses must be 400-level CSE courses Either one additional course from the CSE core courses list or one course from the CSE capstone list on the Allen School website. Minimum 2.0 grade for any course applied to the major. Transfer students must earn a minimum of 24 graded credits toward the major through the UW. Additional Completion Requirements Option: Additional credits required for the Data Science Option increase total major requirements to 89-92 credits. All courses listed below may be completed as part of the Computer Science major shown above. CSE 421, CSE 442, CSE 444, CSE 446 (15 credits) SOC 225 (3/5 credits) One additional course from the data science elective list (see the Allen School website for list.) Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The computer science field has a broad base of private- and public-sector jobs suitable for the Bachelor of Science graduate: systems analyst, systems programmer, applications programmer, technical sales and marketing, and hardware or software engineering specialist. In addition, there are jobs for which graduate education may be appropriate: producers and developers of computer systems, and teachers and researchers. The field is also highly valued for practicing entrepreneurship. Instructional and Research Facilities: Paul G. Allen Center for Computer Science and Engineering includes more than 20,000 square feet of laboratories, nearly 1,000 computer systems, and more than 50 terabytes of storage. Gigabit connectivity is provided to every desktop by more than 60 miles of data cabling, and wireless access is available throughout the building. The Allen School general-purpose laboratories support the diverse set of hardware and software platforms required for a cutting-edge education in the field. The special-purpose laboratories provide tailored support for activities such as mobile robotics, computer graphics, digital design, motion capture, embedded systems, laser scanning, educational technology, networking, and artificial intelligence. The Allen Center and Gates Center are two of the finest computer science and computer engineering facilities in the nation. All Allen School students have access to these resources. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Internships and co-op opportunities are available for computer science undergraduates. Refer to department website for more information. Departmental Scholarships: The Allen School has a limited number of scholarships available to current Allen School majors. Refer to department website for more information. Student Organizations/Associations: A student chapter of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) operates within the Allen School. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA