Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Parking Services Parking right arrow down arrow Locations right arrow down arrow Maps Visitors right arrow down arrow Maps Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub UC Reading Victory Parkway Students right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits Faculty & Staff right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions Citations right arrow down arrow View Account Events right arrow down arrow Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking Resources right arrow down arrow Policies How-To Videos Alternative Transportation FAQ Home » About UC » Parking Services » Students » Leased Properties Parking Permits Set Navigation title in component Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits Leased Properties Parking Permits Parking Permit Registration While most UC residential students park in our uptown campus facilities, when they bring a vehicle, some of the leased properties have their own parking that is limited to our UC residential students living in that community. These communities are 101 Corry, Bellevue Gardens, The Deacon, The Eden, Senator Place and University Edge. Parking at these locations is available on a first-come, first-serve basis, and is subject to the rules and regulations at that specific location. Futher details are addressed below. Replace with your text Please note: University of Cincinnati is not responsible for the security or maintenance of leased property parking facilities, nor is responsible for enforcement of parking rules at these facilities. If your vehicle is towed from one of these facilities, please direct all questions to the property managers at the respective facility. Process Due to availability being limited to residents of these facilities, the following process is in place to purchase a permit. All permits, with the exception of Senator Place, are purchased on a semester basis. In the days prior to parking being available for sale, the resident will receive an email notification that they have been added to a waitlist for the residential parking facility. On the day that permits are available for sale, the resident can log into the parking portal, and their community parking will be one of the options available for purchase. Please have vehicle information available as you will need it to purchase the permit. You will need make, model, color, license plate number and state. Sale Dates: Fall Semester- July 1, Spring Semester- Dec. 1, Summer Semester- April 1. The parking fee will appear on the student bill the next business day. Review the specific community information below for rates, and for more information on how to park at the community. Leased property locations 101 Corry Bellevue Gardens The Deacon The Eden Senator Place University Edge 101 Corry Rate: $300/semester A hangtag will be required to be displayed in your vehicle. A list of students who have purchased a parking permit will be provided to the property’s management office prior to move-in. The student will pick up the hang tag from the office when they receive their keys for move-in. Any vehicle not displaying a hangtag is subject to tow. If you have issues with your parking or lose your hangtag, you will need to contact the property’s management office directly. Bellevue Gardens Rate: $300/semester- Undergraduate Students Only Graduate students will work directly with the UC Housing Office for their parking. A list of undergraduate students that have purchased a parking permit will be provided to the Housing office. The student will be able to pick-up their garage door opener during the move-in process. If purchased after move-in, the opener can be picked up in the UC Housing office. All door openers will need to be returned to the housing office at the end of the semester if a parking permit is not purchased for the following semester. A fee will be assessed for any opener not returned. The Deacon Rate: $360/semester A hangtag will be required to be displayed in your vehicle and will be used to access the garage. A list of students who have purchased a parking permit will be provided to the property’s management office prior to move-in. The student will pick up the hang tag from the office when they receive their keys for move-in. All door openers will need to be returned to the management office at the end of the semester if a parking permit is not purchased for the following semester. A fee will be assessed for any hangtag not returned. The Eden Rate: $300/semester A hangtag will be required to be displayed in your vehicle. A list of students who have purchased a parking permit will be provided to the property’s management office prior to move-in. The student will pick up the hang tag from the office when they receive their keys for move-in. Any vehicle not displaying a hangtag is subject to tow. If you have issues with your parking or lose your hangtag, you will need to contact the property’s management office directly. Senator Place Rate: $150/annually, expires July 31 each year A hangtag will be required to be displayed in your vehicle. A list of students who have purchased a parking permit will be provided to the property’s management office prior to move-in. The student will pick up the hang tag from the office when they receive their keys for move-in. Any vehicle not displaying a hangtag is subject to tow. If you have issues with your parking or lose your hangtag, you will need to contact the property’s management office directly. University Edge Rate: $202/semester A sticker will be required to be displayed in your vehicle. A list of students who have purchased a parking permit will be provided to the property’s management office prior to move-in. The student will pick up the sticker from the office when they receive their keys for move-in. Any vehicle not displaying a sticker is subject to tow. If you have issues with your parking or lose your sticker, you will need to contact the property’s management office directly. Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 parking@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top