Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Legal Affairs & General Counsel General Counsel right arrow down arrow Office of General Counsel right arrow down arrow Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Enterprise Risk Management right arrow down arrow Insurance & Claims right arrow down arrow Insurance Verification or Claims History right arrow down arrow Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training right arrow down arrow Drones right arrow down arrow Flight Request Form Fleet Safety right arrow down arrow Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process right arrow down arrow Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Privacy Internal Audit Home » About UC » Legal Affairs & General Counsel » Enterprise Risk Management » Loss Control & Training » Fleet Safety Set Navigation title in component Insurance & Claims Insurance Verification or Claims History Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training Drones Flight Request Form Fleet Safety Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Fleet Safety What is the Fleet Safety Program? The risks associated with motorized vehicle use are high, both in monetary and human costs. With a fleet of over 300 vehicles ranging in size and use, safety becomes a top priority. Working with Transportation and other stakeholders, we have established a fleet safety program to provide information and guidelines to employees, students, affiliates and volunteers regarding responsibilities for the safe operation of the University's insured vehicles. The goal is to promote the safe operation of motorized vehicles and to minimize the risks of unsafe, impaired or distracted driving to the community at large. Two key components of this program are Driver Authorization through the use of Motor Vehicle Reports and the Accident Review Committee. Driver Authorization In order to ensure top safety to our drivers, passengers and community, Enterprise Risk Management will obtain a motor vehicle report prior to authorizing new drivers, and on a periodic basis while the driver is employed in a driving capacity. Drivers are also required to alert management of any changes to their driving status in the interim. Accident Review Committee The Accident Review Committee (ARC), includes members from Transportation Services, Facilities Management, Environmental Health and Safety, Public Safety and Athletics. The ARC meets to review and evaluate accidents involving University insured vehicles and to monitor for loss control opportunities. The goal of the ARC is to prevent future accidents by using education and review. Drivers involved in an accident are requested to attend, allowing the opportunity for all persons to learn and become better drivers. Traveling for Business? It is highly recommended that University faculty, staff or students traveling for the purpose of conducting University business use a rental car. Transportation Services can facilitate your rental reservation or provide the University's rental code for approved vendors. Traveling in a personal vehicle may result in the driver's insurance becoming the primary payor in the event of an incident. Next Steps Requests for information on driver authorization can be directed to the Enterprise Risk Management office by completing our Ask a Risk Manager form. Resources Motor Vehicle Use Policy Faculty/Staff Travel Policy Student Travel Policy EHS Advisory 23.1 - 15 Passenger Vans University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top