Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Office of Institutional Assessment Office of Institutional Assessment THE MISSION of the Office of Institutional Assessment is to support the University's commitment to academic and operational excellence by facilitating a comprehensive, data-driven system of academic and administrative assessment. In the pursuit of continuous improvement, the office consults with faculty, staff, administrators, and other stakeholders regarding recognized best practices, strategies, and standards. In addition, the office facilitates assessment activities in compliance with SACSCOC Principles of Accreditation. March 24, 2021: As of March 31, 2021 Qualtrics will be updating the interface to the Survey Editor platform. All existing functionality of these features will remain with the updates, aside from a minor change to the Catalog (project creation). For more information, please refer to the New Survey Builder Basic Overview provided by Qualtrics. Preparing for Your 2021/2022 Report (Due October 15th, 2022) We are pleased to announce that the 2021/2022 reporting cycle is open in the Anthology Planning module. As a part of this process, the Plan portion of your report that is meant to remain consistent over time (such as the Mission Statement, Goals, Outcomes, Measure Details, and Performance Expectations) and their links were migrated into the 2021/2022 cycle. For guidance pertaining to assessment efforts during this cycle, please refer to the following documentation: 2021/2022 Annual Assessment Guidance Document 2021/2022 Annual Assessment Review Rubric for Degree and Certificate Issuing Programs- COMING SOON Anthology Planning QuickStart Guide To learn more about each Plan Item, please refer to the following profiles: Mission Statement Plan Item Profile Goal Plan Item Profile Student Learning Outcome Plan Item Profile Other Outcome Plan Item Profile Measure & Result Plan Item Profile Results Driven Action Plan Item Profile Executive Summary Plan Item Profile Additional Metrics Plan Item Profile Please note that Anthology has slowly been transitioning their marketing overlay away from Campus Labs. While materials may look slightly different in that regard, everything else should remain the same. For details on how to build your plan and report please visit our Planning page. Finishing Your 2020/2021 Report (Report due October 15, 2021) We are pleased to announce that the 2020/2021 reporting cycle will be open in the Anthology Planning module as of November 30, 2020. As a part of this process, the Plan portion of your report that is meant to remain consistent over time (such as the Mission Statement, Goals, Outcomes, Measure Details, and Performance Expectations) and their links were migrated into the 2020/2021 cycle. For guidance pertaining to assessment efforts during this cycle, please refer to the following documentation: 2020/2021 Annual Assessment Guidance Document 2020/2021 Assessment Plan Format Quick Reference Sheet 2020/2021 Annual Assessment Review Rubric for Degree and Certificate Issuing Programs Anthology Planning QuickStart Guide To learn more about each Plan Item, please refer to the following profiles: Mission Statement Plan Item Profile Goal Plan Item Profile Student Learning Outcome Plan Item Profile Other Outcome Plan Item Profile Measure & Result Plan Item Profile Results Driven Action Plan Item Profile Executive Summary Plan Item Profile Additional Metrics Plan Item Profile Please note that Anthology has slowly been transitioning their marketing overlay away from Campus Labs. While materials may look slightly different in that regard, everything else should remain the same. For details on how to build your plan and report please visit our Planning page. Assessment in the Time of COVID-19 FAQ Under what circumstances will a program be granted an extension for the 2020-21 assessment reporting cycle? The Office of Institutional Effectiveness (OIE) will consider granting an extension for a program’s 2020-21 assessment report under a variety of circumstances related or unrelated to the COVID-19 pandemic, including but not limited to: - Low program enrollment - Faculty and/or staff turnover - Other unforeseen circumstances at the program level Please note that an extension is not guaranteed due to any of the above circumstances, and all assessment reports will otherwise be due no later than 10/15/2021. Extension requests must be sent via e-mail to assessment@clemson.edu prior to 10/01/2021. How should a program account for student learning assessment outcomes data that vary widely from historical trends related (at least in part) to COVID-19 in its annual assessment report? The OIE recognizes that a variety of unforeseen circumstances could impact student learning outcomes data during this time. If such findings occur, please indicate these in the “COVID-19 Notes” plan item template located in Anthology (formerly known as Campus Labs) to the extent possible. The OIE also encourages programs to revisit these findings during future assessment cycles as part of their annual Results Driven Actions (RDA) plan items. What should a program do if unable to use one or more planned student learning outcomes (SLOs) and/or measures due to Clemson’s pivot to online instruction? In these circumstances, the OIE encourages programs to focus on the SLOs and/or measures that are available for use regardless of the instructional modality. Please note that programs are not required to report on all SLOs on an annual basis; however, best practice requires programs to address at least two SLOs each cycle. The OIE also encourages programs to consider adding new SLOs and/or measures as deemed appropriate for the purposes of continuous improvement. Such additions could be driven by instructional experiences in the online environment that program faculty find valuable to the longitudinal assessment of student learning. Training Opportunities The Office of Institutional Assessment hosts a number of training opportunities. To best meet the needs of the assessment coordinators across campus, they include a combination of live and at-your-own-speed opportunities. If none of these meet your needs, or you would like to schedule a training for a group, please complete the form here. Live We are currently not offering scheduled, live trainings. If you would like to schedule one, please contact the Manager of Assessment and Accreditation, Abby Baker at bakera@clemson.edu On Demand (Hosted in Tiger Training) Annual Assessment Basics: This module covers components and constructs our campus partners will need to be familiar with in order to complete their Annual Assessment plan and report. Access Annual Assessment Basics Training Planning Module Introduction Walkthroughs: These walkthroughs were developed for new users, or users who need a refresher, to the Anthology Planning module. They cover everything you need to know get to create or update your annual assessment plan, including: Logging In, Creating a New Plan, Editing an Existing Plan, Forming "Relationships" in your Plan, Generating Reports, Uploading Documents, as well as Additional Tips. The program is set up in a manner that you can pick and choose which walkthroughs will be most valuable for you. Access Planning Module Introduction Walkthroughs If you have any faculty or staff in your unit you feel would benefit from these trainings, you may also email their names to Abby Baker (bakera@clemson.edu) so those individuals can be enrolled as students in this course. Please note that Anthology has slowly been transitioning their marketing overlay away from Campus Labs. While materials may look slightly different in that regard, everything else should remain the same. Old News and Announcements March 24, 2021: As of March 31, 2021 Qualtrics will be updating the interface to the Survey Editor platform. All existing functionality of these features will remain with the updates, aside from a minor change to the Catalog (project creation). For more information, please refer to the New Survey Builder Basic Overview provided by Qualtrics. October 23, 2020: We understand that programs are still actively monitoring and collecting data related to student learning outcomes. Due to some of the restrictions, changes, or interruptions to typical learning environments, we expect some of the reporting on these efforts may be delayed this year. As such, we have decided to postpone opening the 2020/2021 annual assessment cycle in Anthology Planning from November 1 to Monday, November 30th in order to have a smooth transition. August 18, 2020: As we embark on a historic semester this fall, we are also quickly approaching the annual October 15th deadline for annual assessment reports. Please see this memo from the Director of Academic Accountability and Accreditation regarding the 2019/2020 cycle. July 7, 2020: Please note, as of July 7, 2020, Campus Labs has become known as Anthology. Please read here for more information. While we do not anticipate a disruption in services, more information will be posted at the primary Anthology page as we learn what this means for Clemson University. June 11, 2020: The Office of Institutional Assessment continues to build our online resources for our campus. We are happy to announce that our first completely online training module, Annual Assessment Basics, is officially published on the Bridge/Tiger Training website. This module covers components and constructs our campus partners will need to be familiar with in order to complete their Annual Assessment plan and report. This module can be accessed here. If you have any faculty or staff in your unit you feel would benefit from this introductory module, please email their names to Abby Baker (bakera@clemson.edu), our office GA, and she can enroll those individuals as students in this course. May 7, 2020: The Office for Institutional Effectiveness and Assessment is hosting introductory trainings for the Campus Labs Planning Module throughout the rest of year. The purpose of this trainings is to provide a space to learn how to complete their annual assessment plan in the Campus Labs Planning Module. The first 30 minutes is dedicated to going through the components and mechanics of the software. We will cover topics from logging into Campus Labs to how to link your different assessment components together, with time for questions as we go along. The last 30 minutes will be dedicated working live in the system. Once you sign-up, you will be sent a worksheet to complete beforehand that we will then add into Planning. Trainings will be limited to 8 people per session. Additional offerings for each will be added as needed. If you have any questions or would like to schedule a training or meeting for your program/unit, please email Rob Essaf at ressaf@clemson.edu. Introductory Training Sign-Up Link February 5, 2020: We are pleased to announce the 2019/2020 reporting cycle is now open in the Campus Labs Planning module. The overview is that we have migrated all overarching information and connections from last year. We also updated a few things, such as adding "Other Outcome" and "Results Driven Action" plan item templates. The full details of what we have been updating is available in this memo. We have also created guidance for what is considered a completed plan for Institutional Assessment. Please note that other requirements (such as accreditation or college/division) may call for something different. Over the next few months, we will continue to update this website with resources, such as the Guidebook and training opportunities. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to reach out to us at assessment@clemson.edu. Reporting Cycle Survey Calendar Assessment Help Anthology (Formerly Campus Labs) Planning Home Annual Planning and Reporting Processes Surveys and Indirect Measures Resources Contact Us Related Links Anthology (formerly Campus Labs) at Clemson Institutional Effectiveness SACSCOC SC CHE Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram