Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) Drive Change in Healthcare to Meet the Evolving Needs of Communities Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Nursing Department(s) Nursing 2-3 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Attain the Clinical Skills and Knowledge Needed to Lead Health Systems A MS in Nursing (MSN) degree provides you with an opportunity to advance your career and increase your earnings in healthcare. Whether you’re interested in educating the next generation of nurses, advancing your leadership role or developing healthcare simulation programs, this program will help you achieve your goals. Earning your MSN at UCF is both affordable and flexible. There are full-time, part-time and accelerated options offered online — giving you the convenience to learn when, where and how you want. Plus, online graduate nursing programs offer reduced tuition costs through fee waivers for some campus-based amenities. Ready to get started? Explore the application process and requirements for UCF MSN degrees. Nursing and Health Care Simulation Learn to develop and lead nursing and healthcare simulation programs in academic and practice settings. This track allows students to explore various experiences for learning in the simulated environment, develop skills for leading simulation programs and have the opportunity to develop a self-designed project. Here, interdisciplinary teams of healthcare educators, practitioners, computer scientists and engineers come together to develop and use cutting-edge applications for simulation, training and practice to advance healthcare. Nurse Educator Prepare for advanced leadership roles by developing an independent expertise in the critical analysis and evidence-based evaluation of complex problems associated with organizations and systems. Curriculum emphasizes evidence-based management and patient-care practices to achieve quality outcomes, innovation in the integration of healthcare services, and expertise in leading collaborative interprofessional teams for the novice and aspiring nurse leader. Nursing Leadership and Management Learn to teach in undergraduate nursing and health professions programs at colleges and universities, healthcare agencies, or in the community. In addition to core and clinical courses, you’ll complete an internship in your home community under a nurse educator with a master’s degree and a faculty mentor. Graduates of this program are eligible to take the optional national exam to become a Certified Nurse Educator®. Request Information Highlights The College of Nursing offers fully accredited master’s degree programs. Nationally recognized by U.S. News & World Report among the Best Online Graduate Nursing Programs. The master’s in nursing program at UCF provides options for RNs with a non-nursing bachelor’s degree. Application Deadlines Fall April 1 Spring September 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Nursing Skills You'll Learn Analyze social, economic, ethical, cultural, legal and political issues influencing nursing practice and healthcare in a global context. Develop and implement leadership, management and teaching strategies for the improvement of health and healthcare quality and safety. Develop practice models of evidence-based nursing practice incorporating nursing research. Influence health and public policy in collaboration with other disciplines to improve systems of care and health of communities. Participate in research and disseminate research findings through presentation and publication. Synthesize advanced knowledge from the sciences, humanities and nursing theories to support advanced nursing practice. Plan, evaluate and implement the delivery of healthcare using critical thinking skills in an advanced nursing role. Career Opportunities Chief Nursing Officer Director of Nursing Health Care Administrator Nurse Administrator Nurse Educator Nurse Simulation Nursing Manager Admission Requirements There are multiple steps to the MSN degree application process. First, you’ll need to ensure that you meet the application criteria and physical location requirement. From there, you’ll want to attend an info session and schedule an advising appointment. Applications for the full-time, part-time and accelerated tracks are accepted for fall and spring semesters. Review the application and requirements for UCF MSN degrees. Request Information The minimum program requirements for an MSN program at UCF are: Fulfill general UCF graduate admissions requirements. Earned a BSN degree from a regionally accredited institution. The nursing program must be accredited either with CCNE or ACEN. Registered Nurses with a non-nursing bachelor’s degree can apply to all MSN programs, but must take prerequisites. Passed an undergraduate statistics course. Holds an RN license in the state or country in which you practice. Request Information College of Nursing News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Nursing Student, Leukemia Survivor Inspired by Nurse Alumna who Treated Him Max Jones beat the odds and is now pursuing a career path in pediatric oncology thanks to the mentorship of his nurses, including a very… Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: The Future of Nursing UCF College of Nursing Associate Professor Desiree Diaz shares how UCF is leading the charge in virtual reality education, the importance of teaching students about… Health & Medicine UCF Lake Nona Hospital Training Future Doctors, Nurses Sooner than Expected Within the year since its opening, the hospital has gained national recognition among HCA hospitals for quality of care and patient satisfaction. Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Degree Search College of Nursing programs Masters Nursing (MSN) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Nursing (MSN) program offered at UCF. Loading... University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida