Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home About UH University Offices Enrollment Services Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Office of Admissions Office of the University Registrar Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Office of Student Business Services Office of Integrated Enrollment Services Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQs Related Listings Apply as a freshman University of Houston : Locate your Admissions Counselor Schedule A Visit Majors & Minors Admissions Forms Office of Admissions × Virtual admissions advising appointments are now available. Schedule an appointment here. Summer 2022 Hours We are here for YOU – in several ways! To speak to an admissions representative, please contact us via email at admissions@ uh.edu , by phone at (713)-743-1010 (option 4), through a virtual appointment, or by seeing us in person at the Welcome Center. View Welcome Center Hours Monday- Thursday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Friday 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. View Call Center Hours Monday- Thursday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Friday 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. View Scheduled Virtual Appointments Hours Monday- Thursday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Friday 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. The University Of Houston Office Of Admissions helps prospective students become future Cougars! The Office of Admissions guides students and visitors with recruitment efforts, campus tours and events, admissions processing, and transitioning accepted students into the UH community. Mailing Address University of Houston Office of Admissions Welcome Center 4434 University Drive Houston, TX 77204-2023 Contact Information Phone: 713-743-1010, option 4 E-mail: admissions@uh.edu Areas of Responsibility Undergraduate Admissions Freshmen Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Admissions Events Graduate Admissions Office Staff Executive Director of Admissions Mardell Maxwell Director of Recruitment Kriston Burroughs Director of Prospective and New Student Programs Joseph Ratcliff Director of Admissions Processing Gabrielle Sowell Lead, International Admissions Derrick Alex University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies