Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Inspiring Design Meeting Today's Challenges Academy Facilities 35060022030_78e5a8c114_k-cc In This Section: Visitor Center Planetarium Cadet Chapel Polaris Hall Arnold Hall Fairchild Hall Library Mitchell Hall Sijan Hall Vandenberg Hall Davis Airfield Jacks Valley The Terrazzo A place for exploring There are many cutting-edge learning centers, historic sites, and outdoor retreats to explore at the U.S. Air Force Academy. Each contributes to the unique experiences by cadets, visitors, faculty, and more. Start your experience at the Barry Goldwater Visitor’s Center. View our Cadet Chapel, with its towering spires reaching 150 feet in the air, or our newest addition to the cadet area, Polaris Hall, home to the Center for Character and Leadership Development. Whether you’re here as a cadet, visitor, or one of the many people who support them along the way, one thing is certain. The Academy experience, decades in the making, is unlike any other. PUBLIC FACILITIES Our campus features striking examples of modern architecture, many of which make use of aluminum, mirroring the outer skin of air and spacecraft. Visitor Center Planetarium Cadet Chapel Arnold Hall CADET FACILITIES The Academy base is home to thousands of cadets and we provide several amenities to help it feel that way. Polaris Hall Fairchild Hall McDermott Library Mitchell Hall Sijan Hall Vandenberg Hall Davis Airfield Jacks Valley The Terrazzo Research Centers Athletic Facilities Athletics are a critical part of the Academy experience. Every cadet is expected to play Division I intercollegiate sports or participate on an intramural team. As a result, the athletic facilities here are some of the finest in the nation. ATHLETIC FACILITIES ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.