Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Health Careers Advising WELCOME TO HEALTH CAREERS ADVISING Greetings from Health Careers Advising! Our New Office is on the Second Floor of University Hall For details about the 2021-2022 academic year at Brown visit the Healthy Brown website. For all pandemic guidance relevant to pre-health/pre-medical students see our COVID-19 Pre-Health/Pre-Med FAQ Health Careers Advising- The Big Picture Health Careers Advising assists current Brown undergraduates and recent alumni interested in education and careers in health and medicine. Group information sessions, discussions and workshops, individual consultations with Health Careers Advisors and the Health Careers Peer Advisors, are offered throughout the academic year for students and alumni at any phase of their career exploration and preparation for graduate health and medicine study. Over the course of your Brown education, we can advise you on your academic choices, clinical and research activities selection, and career exploration. This multi-year process culminates with the application to medical or other health profession school. Health Careers Advising supports eligible student and alumni applicants through a year-long series of workshops and Brown University’s Health Careers Advisory Committee letter to medical or other health professions schools. We welcome all interested students and alumni at any stage of their exploration to discuss their plans with us. Reflect and Explore Pursuing a course of study and a career in health and medicine is a significant commitment that requires continuous self-reflection and preparation. Your Brown education is not merely a stepping stone leading to an application, but an engaging process of discovery and learning. We encourage you to embrace Brown's liberal learning goals by selecting a broad and deep course of study; to engage with your community; and to participate in activities that inform your interest in medicine, the sciences, and the social and humanistic contexts of healthcare. Approached in this way, your academic and extracurricular choices will contribute to your growth as a scholar and as a person. They will also help you develop the essential capacities expected of all health professionals: an interest in scientific inquiry, a keen understanding of the promise and limitations of the profession, and a deep appreciation of the value of empathy and cultural competence. Our website, programs, group and individual advising - as well as the Health Careers Portfolio in ASK - assist you with all aspects of your health careers exploration and preparation. This website contains all relevant information to help guide you. Our listserv and Facebook page present important information about due dates, events and opportunities. COVID-19 Pre-Health/Pre-Medical FAQ HOME First-Year & Sophomore Students Applicants Re-Applicants Health Professions Competencies Standardized Tests (MCAT, DAT, GRE, PA-CAT) Your Health Careers Portfolio in ASK Biology Undergraduate Education Student Groups Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in Health Professions Education Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1996 Health Careers Advising One Prospect Street, University Hall - Second Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2781 [email protected] Group & Individual Advising Health Careers Peer Advisors Information Sessions & Events FAQ Forms & Tip Sheets Resources Admission Statistics Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown Resources DOC CareerLAB Swearer Center Writing Center JIB Fellowships BRUnet Outside Resources Explore Health Careers AAMC MSAR MCAT M.D. School List