Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Academic and Student Affairs Registrar's Office Services Ordering Transcripts Change Enrollment Enrollment Certification Diplomas and Certificates Graduation Information Student Name & Contact Info Auditing Courses Advising & Degree Progress Reports Third Party and Degree Verifications Military and Veteran's Services Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Registrar's Office Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Registrar's Office Services Academic and Student Affairs Registrar's Office Services Services Ordering Transcripts Change Enrollment Enrollment Certification Diplomas and Certificates Graduation Information Student Name & Contact Info Auditing Courses Advising & Degree Progress Reports Third Party and Degree Verifications Military and Veteran's Services Academic Calendar Admissions Admissions Online Application Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees School of Health Professions Tuition & Fees Guide School of Nursing Tuition & Fees Guide School of Medicine Tuition & Fees Guide Staff and Staff Dependent Rates Residency for Tuition and Fee Purposes Petition for Fee Reassessment Policy Forms & Resources Forms & Resources Current Students Former Students Visiting International Researchers Visiting Medical Students Contact Services How to Order Transcripts Applying for a post-graduate program or job? You may need to supply a copy of your transcript to support your next adventure. The Registrar's Office provides different ways to order copies of your official and unofficial transcripts. Printed Transcript Ordering Process Processing time is 3-5 business days. Paper transcripts are free of charge to all current and former KU Medical Center students. There is a charge for same-day service or express mailing options. To order a transcript, you may: Complete the online request form. Current students may sign in to your myKUMC account, click the "Info For" drop-down menu and select "Students & Postdocs." Transcript requests will be found under "Registrar Services." Former students may also complete the online request form, but will need to follow the instructions to log in as a former student. Payment for express options may be made along with your transcript request. Complete a PDF request form (PDF). Both current and former students are welcome to use this form. Completed forms can be emailed to the Registrar's Office or sent via mail to: KU Medical Center Registrar's Office, Mail Stop 4005, 3901 Rainbow Blvd., Kansas City, KS 66160. Express processing is not available via email or mail. If needed urgently, you must complete the online request form. Request in-person in our office. We are located in G035 Dykes Library. Hours are Monday-Thursday, 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m. We will supply a request form for you to complete in our office as well as an express options form if necessary. For verification purposes, a photo ID is required. Submit a written letter request. You must include the following in your letter: Full name and any former names used at KU Medical Center Date of birth Assigned KU ID number if known or your Social Security Number Approximate dates of attendance Degree earned and date degree earned, if any Address(es) for the intended transcript recipient(s) Your address and phone number Your signature If the transcript request needs to be held until current semester grades are posted or until a current semester degree is posted, please note this. You may then mail your request to: KU Medical Center Registrar's Office Mail Stop 4005 3901 Rainbow Blvd. Kansas City, KS 66160 Additional requests: If you need any forms or documents sent with your transcript, you will need to submit them along with your transcript request. We are unable to release transcripts if you have a financial or educational hold on your student account with either KU Medical Center the University of Kansas. E-Transcript Ordering Process We now offer official electronic (PDF) transcripts through the National Student Clearinghouse. The cost for these e-transcripts will be between $2.25-$4.25, depending on the receiving capabilities of the recipient. Processing time is 3-5 business days, after which time your transcript will be emailed to or shared through electronic exchange with your intended recipient. Note that while you may send an e-transcript to yourself, most institutions will consider transcripts initially issued to students as unofficial. Only electronic transcripts can be ordered through the National Student Clearinghouse. Paper transcripts should be ordered using the instructions above. Also, the Registrar's Office cannot submit any additional forms or documents along with your e-transcript. If you need any additional documentation sent along with your transcript, the official school seal present on your transcript, or if your request requires a notary service, you will need to order a paper transcript. Before you begin your e-transcript order: Contact the intended recipient about the transcript format that is acceptable. Not every institution will accept e-transcripts. The Registrar's Office will not reissue transcript orders or provide a refund for orders once they have been processed. Be sure that you have the correct email address for the recipient. The Registrar's Office cannot edit transcript orders. Know your KU Medical Center student ID number or your social security number. Have your debit or credit card ready. Resolve any KU Medical Center student holds that will prevent the release of transcripts. If you have such a hold when you place your order, you will receive an email from the Registrar's Office with information on how to resolve the hold. If the hold is not resolved within 30 days, your order will be canceled. Once an order is submitted, it cannot be changed or edited. If any information is entered incorrectly, please contact the Registrar's Office immediately by calling 913-588-7055 and we will attempt to cancel the order before it is sent. The student will then need to place a new order with the correct information. The Registrar's Office cannot provide a refund for orders once they have been processed. Submit National Student Clearinghouse Transcript Order Unofficial Transcripts Current students may obtain unofficial copies of their transcripts. Before ordering, review the transcript key. Order through: KU Advising Tool in myKUMC (Info for Students & Postdocs > KU Advising Tool): Select the "Print Advising Report" button. This will display a complete history of your coursework. Enroll and Pay: Under the Academic Records menu, click "KU Academic Summary." This will display a partial record by academic career. MSPE Letter Medical Doctorate (M.D.) students can request a copy of their MSPE Letter, also known as your Dean's Letter, by completing the MSPE Letter Request Form and submitting it to the Registrar's Office. MSPE Letters can be mailed, faxed or emailed, per the student's request. If you need your letter to complete the ERAS residency application, please submit your request to the Registrar's Office through the ERAS system. Need Assistance? We are always here to help you navigate your transcript needs. Contact the Registrar's Office at 913-588-7055 or kumcregistrar@kumc.edu Registrar's Office Registrar's Office University of Kansas Medical Center 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Mailstop 4005 Kansas City, KS 66160 Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.