Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close New Orleans Home Connect Chapters Louisiana New Orleans Louisiana New Orleans The New Orleans Chapter has over 400 alumni, parents, and friends. The group enjoys gathering for game watches, community service events, and more. If you have any ideas you'd like to share for specific events or if you'd like to become more involved in the chapter, please reach out to us. We look forward to hearing from you! 406 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us New Orleans Chapter Facebook Page Meet Your Chapter Leaders Craig Mangum '05 Lives in: New Orleans, Louisiana; Irish Channel Major: Political Science Occupation: Surety and Construction Law Favorite BC Memory: Some of my favorite memories at Boston College centered around football games. The tailgating, singing “For Boston,” hoisting people into the air when the Eagles scored, and being with friends after games (win or lose) is an indelible part of my BC experience. That connection to BC sports is something I find uniting between alumni in every city I have lived since graduating from BC. Why did you get involved in your local chapter?: I was active in the Nashville Chapter before moving to New Orleans in 2015. At that time, New Orleans had a fairly large amount of BC grads for a southern city but it did not have an official BC chapter. With the help of BC's Alumni Regional Engagement Office and other local alumni, we created a chapter that now hosts several events a year, where local BC grads and parents can regularly connect! Fun Fact: I have had numerous hobbies over the years, from homebrewing, fixing old cars, and playing guitar/drums. I am currently trying to complete my dad's collection of 1956 Topps baseball cards. Sara Porter '06 Lives in: Mid-City Major: Political Science and Hispanic Studies Occupation: Federal Prosecutor Favorite BC Memory: My favorite Boston College memory was staying up all night before graduation to watch the sunrise over the parking garage. It was so fun to bond with new and old friends and reminisce about the great times we had had over the past four years. Why I got involved: I had attended meetings in New Orleans to create an alumni chapter since 2010 and had met a lot of fellow BC alums that had become my close friends here. When the chapter was officially established a few years later, I wanted to get involved to meet and further connect with fellow BC alums in NOLA. What are your local favorites: I love running in City Park and participating in local races, such as the Crescent City Classic and the Jazz Half Marathon. Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Maria D'Alessandro '11, CGSOM'18 Contact: knoerrm@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok