Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager For Faculty and Staff For Alumni For Students For Potential Students Biomed A-Z People Directory Department of Anesthesiology Show/Hide Home About Us Administration Affiliated Hospitals and Clinical Sites Faculty Contact Us Clinical Services Education Research Events Resources Patient Care Our fellowship-trained faculty provides a variety of subspecialty services—including pain, critical care, and pediatric anesthesiology. Each division offers a focused and supportive training environment for resident physicians, medical students, and student nurse anesthetists. Research and Scholarship The Residency Program in Anesthesiology at Brown prepares the next generation of clinicians--and academicians. They can be found presenting original research at regional and national meetings. Anesthesiology at Brown Faculty in the Department of Anesthesiology at Brown are renowned for their sound medical practice and technical proficiency. Alongside dedicated nurses and clinical staff, they provide an array of anesthetic services to a diverse patient population, as well as exceptional training opportunities for medical students and residents. Education at Brown The Department of Anesthesiology offers a number of training opportunities at the pre- and post-graduate levels. Programs include our ACGME-accredited residency program, a general anesthesiology elective open to Alpert Medical School students, and the visiting SRNA program. Providence & Beyond Providence offers a combination of classic New England beauty, immersive arts culture, and the excitement of a city packed with colleges and universities. The Department of Anesthesiology at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University is a multidisciplinary team that provides cutting-edge, state-of-the-art medical care for its patients throughout the greater Rhode Island community. We pride ourselves on the practice of world-class perioperative medicine at all of our affiliated institutions. Our patients range from newborn to geriatric, and our physicians specialize in the care of these patients from their first preoperative consultation through their operation and into their recovery or intensive care admission. Learn more about us Meet our faculty Upcoming Events June 8th, 2022 Jun 8 7:00am - 8:00am Anesthesiology Grand Rounds June 15th, 2022 Jun 15 7:00am - 8:00am Anesthesiology Grand Rounds June 22nd, 2022 Jun 22 7:00am - 8:00am CA2 Quality Improvement Project Poster Presentation June 29th, 2022 Jun 29 7:00am - 8:00am Anesthesia M&M Conference View full calendar > Brown Biology and Medicine Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty and Staff Potential Students Alumni Giving to Brown Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, RI 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn SnapChat