Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ SMU News SMU SMU News Broadcast Studio Broadcast Studio SMU offers live broadcast interviews any time news happens with our HD equipment, providing fast and easy access to our faculty experts, administrators, staff and researchers without leaving your station. Fiber optic and satellite capabilities allow your station live or taped interviews for your news broadcast, anytime, anywhere. Why use SMU? Quick access to top faculty and research experts Analysis on developing news, research, etc. Save costly expenses (camera crew, travel, makeup) and valuable time Live expert interviews during your broadcast, any time Q & A with anchors when news is happening Never have to scramble for a crew or lose an important interview to breaking news Vyvx users can book time on their accounts Satellite time is also available About the HD Equipment HD Panasonic Camera, Fujinon lens, power supply, custom cabling. Aja Ki Pro Ultra digital recording device with two 250GB storage drives Upgraded HD encoder unit HD routing switcher HD digital analog converter HD confidence monitor The studio is fully equipped with broadcast lighting and a designated robotic camera that is operated remotely. The camera has pan/tilt capabilities, providing the flexibility of a one-on-one interview, or even an interview with two experts. How it works SMU has a dedicated fiber optic link to Vyvx. This allows a direct connection from our studio to your control room. Satellite uplink capabilities are also available. About Radio Our studio also allows radio stations to connect to the studio via dial-up ISDN. Telos Zephyr Xstream transceiver AAC Mono 128, AAC J-Stereo 64, Layer-3 Stereo, Layer-3 J-Stereo, Layer-3 Mono 128, Layer-2 J-Stereo, Layer-2 Mono 128, and G.722 For more information For more information or to book the studio for interviews, please contact the SMU News and Communications team at 214-768-7650 or by email at news@smu.edu. Please note that our facility is available exclusively to the SMU community. # # # SMU News Broadcast Studio Contact Us SMU Research Blog Experts News Archives Featured News Research SMU Community Tweets by SMU Research Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share