Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Housing & Dining Brown isn’t just a place where students study and learn. It's home. Breadcrumb Home Life at Brown Sub Navigation In This Section Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events Housing & Dining Brown isn’t just a place where students study and learn. It's home. Brown is a place where students gather in dorm common rooms, in on-campus cafes and in their favorite lounges to talk passionately about what they've learned, what they've experienced and what they love. We know that life outside the classroom is just as important for a full and rich educational experience as what our students learn in seminar rooms and labs. On campus, students are immersed in a classic New England college experience among brick quadrangles, scenic greens, soaring modern architecture and centuries-old structures. Many faculty and staff live near campus, often in historic residences updated and sold through the Brown-to-Brown home ownership program. All of this is located within the heart of historic Providence, Rhode Island’s vibrant capital — known for its innovative arts scene, exceptional culinary offerings and unpretentious vibe. On campus, students live and study among scenic greens, soaring modern architecture and centuries-old structures. Residential Life for Undergraduates Brown’s housing system reflects the vibrant, diverse community you'll find on campus. All first-year students — and 74 percent of all undergraduates — live on campus. First-year undergrads live with roommates in close-knit residence hall communities of 50 to 60 students. Returning students choose housing assignments, which range from private single rooms to suites and apartments for friends and groups, through a lottery system. A network of program houses — with options like Casa Machado (Spanish language, Hispanic culture), Environmental House (sustainability, social action) and St. Anthony Hall (literary society — offer the chance to live and learn with others who share your interests. And some of the University’s Greek letter organizations — in which more than 1,100 students participate — also offer on-campus housing. Brown's Residence Halls Brown provides a residential learning environment that supports students' academic endeavors and fosters students' personal development. Visit Page Open details for Brown&#039;s Residence Halls Off-Campus Housing Undergraduate students desiring to live off campus must apply for and receive permission from the Office of Residential Life. Visit Page Open details for Off-Campus Housing Greek and Program Houses A vibrant community made of up 11 residential Greek organizations, 3 non-residential Greek organizations, and 8 residential Program Houses throughout campus. Visit Page Open details for Greek and Program Houses Additional Housing Services Beyond on-campus undergraduate housing, Brown offers a variety of programs, services and resources for graduate and medical students, visiting scholars and University faculty and staff. Graduate and Medical School Housing Visiting Scholar Housing Relocation Assistance for New Faculty and Staff Brown to Brown Home Ownership Program Guide to Living Off Campus Auxiliary Housing Office Dining at Brown Brown features two all-you-care-to-eat dining halls, as well as four campus restaurants, three coffee carts and two convenience markets. A focus on fresh, sustainable foods. Serving stations offering made-to-order dishes. An expanding array of green dining initiatives. Brown Dining offers more than just nourishment — its team provides a student-first approach to campus dining with a range of eateries to relax, meet with friends, study and socialize. Flexible meal plans are available. Students can choose from two all-you-care-to-eat dining halls — the venerable Sharpe Refectory (aka “the Ratty”) or the alluring Verney-Woolley (or “V-Dub”) — as well as four campus restaurants, three coffee carts and two convenience markets. Plans include options for students who live on campus and off campus, including graduate and medical students. Faculty, staff and visitors are frequent customers at many of Brown Dining's cafes and retail locations, like the ever-popular Blue Room at the Stephen Robert ’62 Campus Center. Meal Plan Options Dining Locations and Menus Brown Speak Ask students at Brown about campus housing and dining, and you're likely to hear some of the following: The Ratty: Brown's main dining hall, formally named the Sharpe Refectory. RPC: Residential peer counselors live in and advise students in first-year residence halls. Spicy With: A popular late-night special at Brown eatery Josiah’s. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Housing & Dining Open details for Housing & Dining Bookmark this Page