skip to content Students Academics News + Events Research Giving Menu x Undergraduate Students Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Orientation Internal Transfer Majors & Minors Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Courses Languages Career Services Apply x Current Undergraduates Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Study Abroad Scholarships & Awards Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Overview Orientation Internal Transfer Degree Options Graduate Students Graduate Studies Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Academic Areas Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Administration Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS About Message from the Dean College Leadership Mission Statement History of the College Contact Connect Ways of Giving Get Involved Annual Impact Report Dean’s Circle Pro Bene Meritis Award Questions? Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Questions about this website? Search the College of Liberal Arts Life & Letters Magazine College Viewbook Events News Courses Languages Career Services Apply Give Resources for Faculty and Staff Monica M. Martinez Associate Professor, History Donna Kornhaber Associate Professor, English Heather Rice Lecturer, Slavic and Eurasian Studies Lisa B. Thompson Professor, African and African Diaspora Studies Marcelo Paixão Associate Professor, African & African Diaspora Studies and Latin American Studies Keith Sharman History Honors ’98 Jasmine Rose Schmitt PACE Program Manager We Are Liberal Arts Bianna Golodryga Russian, East European and Eurasian Studies ’00 Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Resources for Faculty & Staff Wes Anderson Philosophy '90 Jason Ancheta Finance and Government '22 Ann Huff Stevens Dean, College of Liberal Arts David Bruton, Jr. Regents Chair in Liberal Arts Daron Roberts Plan II & Government '01 Renée Zellweger English '92 Gloria Hwang Psychology '11 The Liberal Arts Are Essential The liberal arts have always been at the core of a strong university education, emphasizing learning across a broad range of subjects, from humanities such as history or literature to social sciences including economics and psychology. You’ll acquire skills that never become obsolete and prepare you for endless opportunities throughout your life. This makes a liberal arts education applicable to almost any career path. Learn More Majors Minors & Certificates Undergraduate Research Graduate Studies Career Services Life & Letters Our Students The College of Liberal Arts offers students the largest number of majors of any college at UT Austin. Students may choose majors in the humanities, social sciences, foreign languages and interdisciplinary fields. Beyond the basic core curriculum and Liberal Arts requirements, Liberal Arts majors have ample opportunity to enrich their educational experiences through internships, research, study abroad and leadership opportunities. Student Affairs in the College of Liberal Arts serves all our undergraduate students through academic advising, programs from the Office of Student Success and guidance from the Liberal Arts Career Services. Learn More Prospective Students Liberal Arts Honors Plan II Honors Career Services Office of Student Success Scholarships and Fellowships Orientation Graduation Global Education The University of Texas has more than 400 approved programs abroad and liberal arts students are encouraged to build on their linguistic skills and develop an understanding of social and cultural differences by spending a summer or semester immersed in another country. Communicating in more than one language gives you a strong advantage with employers and in the workplace. Our college offers more than 30 languages including those considered to be essential to business like French, Japanese, Russian and Hindi. Learn More Study Abroad World Languages Texas Language Center Texas Global Academic Programs The liberal arts emphasize interdisciplinary exploration and study combined with real world experiences, helping you to develop skills that prepare you to work with very different kinds of people and ideas in many types of workplaces. Liberal arts students can choose from more than 40 majors and also pursue a minor or certificate in a separate field of interest. African and African Diaspora Studies American Studies Anthropology Asian American Studies Asian Cultures and Languages Asian Studies Classical Languages Classical Studies Economics English Environmental Science European Studies French Studies Geography German Government Health and Society History Human Dimensions of Organizations Humanities International Relations and Global Studies Italian Studies Jewish Studies Latin American Studies Linguistics Mexican American and Latina/o Studies Middle Eastern Studies Philosophy Plan II Honors Portuguese Psychology Race, Indigeneity and Migration Religious Studies Rhetoric and Writing Russian, East European and Eurasian Studies Sociology Spanish Sustainability Studies Urban Studies Women's and Gender Studies About the College In the College of Liberal Arts, we teach students to think critically and independently so they can thrive in the world beyond campus. We are dedicated to promoting cutting-edge research that helps people better understand human history, society, and culture. Learn More Office of the Dean Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion College Leadership History of the College College Viewbook Life & Letters Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Course Descriptions Academic Calendar Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 The College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021