Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Bursar Bursar right arrow down arrow Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Tuition Guarantee Policy Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance How Fees Are Determined Prior Year Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Academic Year 2021-2022 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2020-2021 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2019-2020 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Paying your Bill right arrow down arrow Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Refunds right arrow down arrow Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals right arrow down arrow Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Past Due Accounts right arrow down arrow Collections Payment Plans Collections Timeline Loans right arrow down arrow Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Tax Forms & Disclosures right arrow down arrow Form 1098-T right arrow down arrow Detailed Explantion of the 1098-T Form 1098-T FAQs Form 1042-S Banking Contract Disclosure Contact Us right arrow down arrow The Team Bursar Contact Form Home » About UC » Office of the Bursar » Refunds » Direct Deposit Enrollment Set Navigation title in component Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Direct Deposit Enrollment Direct deposit is safe, secure, and quicker than paper checks. Failure to enroll in direct deposit will delay and sometimes even prevent the processing of your excess credit balance refund. Direct deposit refunds are processed daily, Monday through Friday (except during UC holidays). How to Enroll in Direct Deposit To set up direct deposit as a student, go to Catalyst and click the "My Finances" tile. On the left side click "Billing Information" and then "Direct Deposit Enrollment" from the drop-down menu. If you do not have a U.S. bank account, you have the option to sign-up for one through our campus banking partner, PNC Bank. Visit their branch located on the 3rd floor of Tangeman University Center. Note: Faculty, staff or student workers will automatically have their payroll bank account used for student refunds. If you need to update or add a bank account, you will be directed to the UCFlex Employee Self-Service Portal. Parent PLUS Loan Refunds right arrow down arrow Parents who have refunds coming from Federal Parent PLUS Loans should coordinate with their student to obtain Delegated Access. Once complete, the parent can sign up for direct deposit in Catalyst by clicking on the “Delegated Access” tile and then “Manage Bank Account”. All refunds NOT coming from a parent plus loan will be refunded to the bank listed under the student account. Paper Check Refunds right arrow down arrow Paper refund checks are only processed for excess credits from federal aid and financial aid payment types. Eligible paper check refunds are scheduled to post once a week (usually Thursday). Refunds via paper checks do not begin until the first Thursday after your classes start. Excess credit balances from personal payments (except credit card payments) will remain on your account to pay future term charges. Examples of personal payments are 529 payments, employer payments, personal checks, money orders, Flywire payments, etc. If you do not want these funds to pay future term charges and would like to request the refund, please enroll in direct deposit. Once direct deposit is complete, the “refund hold” will automatically be removed, and your refund will be issued electronically. If direct deposit is not possible, please login to Catalyst and update/confirm your “mailing” address by clicking the “profile” tile on your student homepage. Then send an email to bursar@ucmail.uc.edu requesting that a paper refund check be issued. Please be sure to include your M#. Stop payment requests on paper checks will only be considered once a check has been missing for 30 days from the date of issue. A $25 Stop Payment Fee will be charged for each check stopped. Refund checks should be cashed promptly. Federal Title IV recipients are subject to Federal regulations which require the university to return stale refund checks to the federal program which generated the refund. Checks over 120 days are considered stale and may be voided. Once these funds are returned to the Federal government the university may not be able to request their return. Check with the Bursar's Office before attempting to deposit or cash any refund check older than 120 days. Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top