COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Art Education, Major MajorArt Education All Programs College of Fine Arts Art Education A Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) degree in art—art education emphasis—will prepare you for a successful career in the classroom. You'll benefit from learning the latest teaching methods—and gain real-world experience in the PreK-12 classrooms of Kansas' largest school district and surrounding areas. Learn how art education is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the School of Art, Design and Creative Industries, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Returning adult student uses ceramics to craft her future career Art education students have the opportunity to pursue what they love and share it with others. Renee Fritts is studying art education as a returning adult student. She loved art as a child, but didn't have any art classes available in elementary or middle school. After graduation, she hopes to get a job teaching high school students. Fritts has already interned at Derby High School and enjoys teaching high school students because the kids she teaches want to be there and are interested in the subject. . Curriculum You'll start with general education courses and go on to develop competencies in professional education, art foundation studies, art history, art specialization and art education. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's location in Kansas' largest school district, every art-education student has the opportunity to gain skills and confidence from practical teaching experience—while still in school—leading to successful employment immediately after graduation. In fact, more than 90 percent of ADCI art education students are hired directly after they graduate. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Art History Art History (Minor) Ceramics Media (Studio Art) Painting (Studio Art) Print Media (Studio Art) Sculpture (Studio Art) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©