Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Department of Biostatistics Home About Academics Doctoral Program Master's Program Sc.M. Degree 5th Year (A.M.)/OGE NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Master's FAQs Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Research People News Site Navigation Home Statistics Seminars Series Seminar Archive About Job Postings Our Partners Academics Doctoral Program Ph.D. FAQs Master's Program Sc.M. Degree 5th Year (A.M.)/OGE NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Welcome from the chair Master's FAQs Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Introductory Biostatistics Courses Research People Administration Faculty Students Current Doctoral Students Current Master’s Students Alumni News News Item Submission Master's FAQs Please note: All information below is subject to change. Please make sure to check back frequently for updates. Should I apply to the Ph.D. or Sc.M. program? Admission to the Ph.D. program is much more selective. Successful candidates usually have demonstrated strong quantitative skills and often have a prior baccalaureate or master’s degree in statistics or a related field. If I am applying to the Ph.D. program may I also be considered for the Sc.M. program? There is an option in our Ph.D. application that allows applicants to indicate that they would also like to be considered for the Sc.M. program. It has also been our practice for the Ph.D. committee to recommend students that they believe are not yet qualified for the Ph.D. program but would be good master's candidates to the Master's Admissions Committee for review. If selected you will be contacted by the Master's Committee. That being said, if you want more timely consideration by the Master's Committee you may want to apply to the Master's Program directly. How do I apply to the Biostatistics Program? Applicants to the Biostatistics program should apply through SOPHAS, a centralized application service for accredited schools and programs in public health. For more information on how to apply please visit the SOPHAS application instructions. If you have any questions, please contact SOPHAS. Sophas Customer Service Phone: (617) 612-2090 Open Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm EST. Customer Service E-Mail: [email protected] Apply through SOPHAS Are there any circumstances under which the application fee can be waived? Yes, please read more on our page: Application Fee Waivers and Assistance What is the application deadline? Applications are due by February 1. Please have all uploads, test scores, letters of recommendation and transcripts in by this time. Do my letters of recommendation have to be written by professors? Not necessarily, but the letter writers must be in a position to evaluate your academic performance in courses relevant to the proposed field of study. In addition, we like to see letters of support from those who can attest to your interest in and aptitude for quantitative work related to biostatistics, as well as those who have supervised you in a biostatistics related job or internship Is the Sc.M. degree considered a STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) degree? The Sc.M. in Biostatistics is considered a STEM degree. You can see the specific information about STEM fields here. This means with an Sc.M. in Biostatistics an international student can remain on an F1 visa status for 36 months after graduation. Can students be admitted to Biostatistics for the spring semester? Not generally, because course sequencing assumes that students will start in the fall semester. In exceptional circumstances, or when course requirements have been satisfied, a spring entry can occur. Are GREs required? The GRE is not required. Is it possible to pursue a part-time program? Yes, but most of our students are full-time, and the possibility of part-time study would need to be discussed with the Graduate Program Director. What is the average GRE score of applicants/What GRE scores are you looking for? The GRE is not required. How and when will I know if I am admitted? As the Admissions Committee evaluates applications, suitable candidates may be notified informally by the department as their application is reviewed (as early as February). This is not a binding offer. Only the Graduate School is allowed to make a formal offer, and these are typically sent out in March. Do I need to send my official documents (GRE, TOEFL, transcript) or are self-reported scores acceptable? *The GRE is not required for the 2021-2022 application cycle* Official GRE and TOEFL test scores are required and should be submitted through SOPHAS using the process described on their website here. Please use Brown SPH SOPHAS- 7765 as the reporting code for GRE Scores. Directions for submitting your TOEFL scores can be found here on the SOPHAS website. Your application will not be considered complete and will not be reviewed until all official test scores are attached. What GPA are you looking for? As with the GRE, the GPA is interpreted in context. We are looking for demonstrated excellence in courses, particularly those related to the proposed field of study. May admission to a graduate program be deferred? Yes, a request for deferral of admission based on personal circumstances is considered on a case-by-case basis. Your place in the next year's entering class is reserved. What type of coursework preparation do I need? Students should have good mathematical preparation, including multivariable calculus, linear algebra, and mathematical probability using calculus .You may apply before completing these courses, however they need to have been completed prior to starting the program. What does it cost to attend? Tuition and fees vary from year to year, but fees are charged by course. More detailed information on tuition costs and fees can be found on the Graduate School website. (Note: these figures are based on a 4-course-per-semester schedule and the Sc.M. course load is usually 3-3-2-2, over the course of 4 semesters) You are also responsible for the Health Services Fee, Student Activity Fee, and Student Recreation Fee, as well as health insurance. What are the requirements for foreign applicants? International transcripts: SOPHAS will only accept evaluations obtained from World Education Services (WES ICAP). SOPHAS cannot accept any documents other than the WES ICAP evaluation. For more information on applying as an international applicant, visit www.my.sophas.org. Although not required, it may be helpful if one of your letters of recommendation is from a native English speaker who can comment on your spoken and written English proficiency. Please also review the requirements set by the Graduate School. That information can be found here: http://www.brown.edu/academics/gradschool/application-information/international-applicants What statistical software is most emphasized in the program? The most commonly used software in our courses is R. Stata is commonly used as well. Training in SAS is also available from the School of Public Health. Facility in any of these programs is a plus, but is not required, as they will be introduced in the curriculum. Are TOEFL scores required? Do TOEFL scores expire? TOEFL scores are required of international students, unless a student has or is expecting to receive a bachelor's or master's degree from a U.S. university or from an institution where the primary language is English. TOEFL or IELTS scores submitted should be from within the last two years. For more detail, see the Graduate School policy. Brown requires a score of at least 90 for admission. Official TOEFL scores should be sent to both SOPHAS (TOEFL reporting code 5688) and Brown University Graduate School (reporting code 3094). May I schedule a visit to learn more about your program? We normally invite all admitted students to a Masters Recruiting Day in early March. On that day, faculty and administrators are available to meet with students. Candidates who cannot attend that day can arrange to come another day, but are not guaranteed to be able to speak with all faculty. How can I get a TOEFL waiver if I have attended a U.S. university or institution? If you are an international student that has or is expecting a degree from a U.S. university or institution you will qualify for a TOEFL waiver through SOPHAS. There is no need to email to request a waiver - you will automatically qualify once your application is submitted. How many applications do the programs receive? How many students to you expect to enroll in the program this coming school year? The number of applications received varies from year to year. The department aims to have about 20 students in each incoming class What type of undergraduate degree do I need? We do not require a specific type of undergraduate degree. Applications from students in applied fields such as biology, biochemistry, economics and computer science are strongly encouraged, with the understanding that necessary mathematical coursework needs to be completed before enrollment in the program. Academics Doctoral Program Master's Program Sc.M. Degree 5th Year (A.M.)/OGE NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Master's FAQs Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Apply through SOPHAS Department of Biostatistics Department of Biostatistics Brown University Box G-S121-7 121 S Main St, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9831 Fax: 401-863-9182 Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top