Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Campus Recreation Hours-Schedule Member Services Member Services Online Member Portal Online Member Portal Instructions Membership Rates Fees Room Reservations and Events Parking Programs Programs Aquatics Fitness Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Youth Spirit Spirit Band Rotunda Spirit Squads About ☰ Intramural Sports Campus Recreation Programs Intramural Sports Southern Methodist University's Intramural sports program is offered through the Campus Recreation Department. The Intramural program has over 3,000 participants involved in over 30 different individual/dual and team sport activities throughout the academic year. Through Intramurals, students/faculty/staff have the opportunity to learn and/or perfect physical skills, compete in a structured/safe environment, and challenge themselves and others through individual and team competition. Committed to the development of leadership qualities, Intramurals provides students not only the opportunity to lead and organize teams, but there are, also, employment opportunities. These opportunities include officiating, supervising, scorekeeping, equipment management, and office administration. Sport offerings are scheduled into both competitive and recreational leagues for men, women, fraternities, sororities, residence halls, independents, co-recreational, and faculty/staff groups. Non-affiliated individuals may sign up as an individual participant and be placed on an existing team. The Campus Recreation Department and its staff assume no responsibility for injuries received through participation in Intramural activities. Students, faculty, and staff are reminded that their participation is completely voluntary! Participation in SMU Intramural activities implies acceptance of all risks that are associated with participation in the activity. Provisions have been made for immediate first aid care, and when necessary, transportation to a hospital or emergency care facility. Each year a number of small injuries occur which require hospital treatment, the nature of Intramural activities and the large number of Southern Methodist University students, faculty, and staff who participate combine to make these occurrences inevitable. The Intramural Department strongly encourages that each participant have a physical examination and secure adequate medical insurance prior to participation. For more information about Intramurals, please contact Bonnie Hainline, Assistant Director of Intramurals and Sport Clubs, (214) 768-3367, bhainline@smu.edu. Calendar Intramural Handbook Register Here BECOME AN OFFICIAL Join the intramural program on the other side of the whistle. Enjoy an atmosphere where you get to make friends, make money, and make the call! No experience is necessary as all training is provided by the intramural program. You will just need to attend the training(s) associated with each sport to enter the hiring process and be eligible for hire.* You will not need to complete an application prior to attending the first training session. Visit SMU Handshake to apply or email Bonnie Hainline atbhainline@smu.edufor more information. HOW TO REGISTER Coming Soon Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share