Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA DC | Why did COVID-19 bring America to its knees? Events Past Event CAA DC | Why did COVID-19 bring America to its knees? Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo October 14, 2021 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM America/New_York Online Damian Paletta Economics editor at The Washington Post Yasmeen Abutaleb Health policy reporter at The Washington Post Join us for a fascinating discussion with Damian Paletta and Yasmeen Abutaleb, the authors of Nightmare Scenario: Inside the Trump Administration’s Response to the Pandemic that Changed History. Their book, which reached Number 1 on the New York Times bestseller list, is exhaustively researched and based on hundreds of hours of first-person interviews from staff deep in the White House – at all levels of authority. Apart from the meticulous reporting, the perspectives offered by Ms. Abutaleb, as a health care reporter, and Mr. Paletta, who focuses on economics, make the book a truly singular entity and an incredibly engaging read. Because the pandemic response juxtaposed both public health measures and economic policies, a perfect storm ensued. The Trump administration could not devise a coherent national response and consequently squandered opportunities for true leadership – resulting in the devastating loss of over 600,000 American lives. What unfolds in Nightmare Scenario is a mind-boggling cascade of missed opportunities, ineptitude, epic infighting, backstabbing, and a White House that had lost its true mission, to protect the people of the United States. Time will be allocated for Q&A. Contact Information CAA Global and Diversity Engagement [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close