Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Living & Resources Family Resources Family Resources: Brown Policies & Resources Child Care Subsidy Graduate School Skip to Navigation Child Care Subsidy The Child Care Subsidy for Graduate Students aims to help graduate student parents with the costs of child care for children ages 0-6. The subsidy award provides eligible graduate students with up to $5,000 a year, per child (up to 3 children), per household. Deadline Calendar year 2022: Application is due October 15, 2021. Applications received after the deadline will only be accepted if funds have not been exhausted. Eligibility Graduate student parents eligible for the subsidy: Are enrolled in a degree program at least half-time. Have a legal dependent between the ages of 0 to 6 for whom they are financially responsible in the upcoming year. Had a total household adjusted gross income of less than or equal to $100,000 in calendar year 2020 Are unmarried, or have a spouse who meets one of the criteria below: a) Employed at least part-time b) A full-time student c) Considered legally disabled d) Unemployed, but actively seeking employment How to apply Eligible graduate students should submit complete applications as soon as they become eligible to University Human Resources at [email protected] (please send securely via Virtru). Eligible graduate student parents are strongly encouraged to submit their materials by the October deadline, allowing time for application review, award notification, and award processing. Graduate students who become parents after the October deadline (either before December, or within the next calendar year (January - December) and meet eligibility criteria are eligible to apply for the current year subsidy once their child is enrolled in child care. Depending on when their application is received, awards may be prorated. Application components Subsidy applications must include the following components: Completed Application Form Supporting documents: 1) The first two pages of your IRS form 1040 from the prior year and the first two pages of form 1040 for your spouse if filed separately. 2) A copy of a birth certificate or certificate of adoption for the child(ren) receiving the subsidy 3) Work visa, if applicable, for a spouse who is unemployed but actively seeking employment. Subsidy Award Disbursements The child care subsidy is disbursed by check, either issued electronically, as an addition to stipend checks, or issued as a physical check sent to your campus box (if you are not set up for electronic payments). To be sure, please check with Payroll if you have questions. The subsidy is disbursed in two installments: the first in January and the second in September. It is recommended that students set up direct deposit to avoid any delay in receiving a payment. Questions? Contact University Human Resources at 863-2009 or [email protected]. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Providence & RI Housing Offices & Resources Campus Facilities Family Resources International Students Crisis Support Food and Related Resources for Graduate Students Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Frequently Asked Questions 2022 Application Privacy (Lactation)/Wellness Rooms Graduate Student Resources Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants