Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Your Campus, Your City Community Life Your Campus, Your City Live and learn in New York City’s Morningside Heights, a diverse and vibrant neighborhood in the capital of culture, finance, business, media, and law. Columbia University is home to 40,000-plus students, faculty, and staff from every corner of the globe. Our campus is a thriving social hub as well as a forum for lively intellectual debate. Morningside Heights, located in Manhattan and nestled between Harlem and the Upper West Side, embodies the intimacy, quirkiness, and vibe of a traditional college town. Lively but not crowded, the neighborhood hosts nearly a dozen educational institutions in addition to the Law School. Quick Links Campus Life at Columbia University Visit Campus Office of University Life Student Organizations & Journals Campus Life Workout and de-stress in the Dodge Fitness Center, mingle with classmates in Jerome Green Hall (the Law School’s main building), study at the Law School’s Arthur W. Diamond Law Library or utilize one of Columbia University’s 14 other libraries, and then grab coffee with friends at Lenfest Cafe in Jerome Green Hall. Life on Campus Leave the Library, Take A Right: 20 Minutes to Lincoln Center, Midtown Manhattan, Times Square 25 Minutes to Yankee Stadium, Greenwich Village, the High Line, Whitney Museum 30 Minutes to SoHo, Tribeca, and Chinatown 45 Minutes Williamsburg, the Brooklyn Academy of Music, Barclays Center Welcome to the Neighborhood Columbia’s location in Morningside Heights offers easy access to iconic neighborhoods and cultural institutions—not to mention endless sources of entertainment. Visit iconic landmarks like Grant’s Tomb and the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, bike and run along the Hudson River in Riverside Park, and explore the rest of the city with ease via multiple subway and bus lines. Tour the Law School All News & Stories Tour the Law School All News & Stories Morningside Heights A City of Professional and Pro Bono Opportunities For lawyers in training, innumerable opportunities for professional development, pro bono work, and volunteering are minutes away. From internships at top companies to pro Bono work that contributes to the life and health of the city to prestigious government clerkships, Columbia Law offers inumerable experiential learning opportunities. Fun In the City Law School students can find endless ways to relax and recharge by exploring the city. From the Metropolitan Museum of Art to hole-in-the-wall galleries, Broadway musicals to performance art in Brooklyn, Lincoln Center to the Blue Note: New York has every kind of culture and entertainment you can imagine (and some you can’t). Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.