Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Composition-Music MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Composition-Music MM Apply Request More Info Composition-Music MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Music in Composition Develop a thorough understanding of contemporary practices, theories and techniques in music composition, and learn to express yourself through creative musical thought with the Master of Music in Composition from Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. This 30-credit-hour, graduate-level program focuses on the studies of innovation and craft, research, and expressive effect for traditional instrumental and vocal forces. Composition students also explore experimental music through the prisms of both electroacoustic music and visual music, which is the creation of visual art using sound data translated via coding and algorithms. Master of Music in Composition students learn to assess works of music within the contemporary cultural context and then use that understanding to create their own aurally inventive compositions. At the completion of the program, students present a portfolio of compositions demonstrating notational fluency and the ability to compose convincing and intelligible music. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover composition faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer composition degree programs. Classes & Curriculum The Composition-Music MM program stresses advanced work in computer synthesis of music, collaborative work with filmmakers and dancers, varied degrees of exploratory work and compositional efforts in larger forms. Required courses you will take during your studies include Computer Synthesis and Seminar in Composition. Students also take four electives, with recommended courses including Aesthetics of Music, Canon and Fugue, and Research in Music. Learn more about Composition-Music MM courses. Related Graduate Degrees Music Education PhD Music PhD Music Therapy PhD Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Cynthia Folio, professor and chair of Music Studies, is the program contact. Phone: 215-204-8316 Email: cynthia.folio@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. ConTemplum hosts numerous concerts, forums and seminars to foster a community of musicians who are dedicated to exploring contemporary musical ideas and performing new compositions. Music Technology & Business Society of Temple University provides students with guidance and support for navigating the complex network of the modern music industry, in addition to providing space in which members can meet and discuss various creative and technical topics. Temple University Theory and Musicology Society (THEMUS) gives students an open forum to discuss and develop scholarly work within the disciplines of music theory and musicology. Each semester, THEMUS hosts guest, faculty and student lectures. THEMUS organizes a regional graduate student conference each year for theory and musicology. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-COMP-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Composition-Music MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info