Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Academic Success Center CU 1000 What is CU 1000? CU 1000 is a zero-credit, pass/no pass course that all new Clemson students are required to complete during their first semester of enrollment. The purpose of CU 1000 is to introduce new students to Clemson’s student success resources and community standards and values. CU 1000 is a hybrid course – some modules are completed online while others require in-person attendance. Course assignments are completed and submitted in Canvas, Clemson’s online learning management system. How will CU 1000 help me? Whether you enrolled at Clemson directly after high school or transferred to Clemson from another college or university, CU 1000 can help you become more knowledgeable about Clemson’s community standards and values as well as learn about the student success and engagement resources available to you at Clemson. The learning objectives for this course are to increase your awareness and knowledge of: Clemson’s Core Values of honesty, integrity and respect University academic success resources College success strategies Clemson's community standards, policies and expectations Your own social identity and values as well as those of others Bystander intervention strategies Academic advising resources The Constitution, Declaration of Independence and Federalist Papers How do I register for CU 1000? You register for CU 1000 at your Orientation session during the course registration period. Your advisor or an orientation ambassador can show you how to register for this course. Students who forget to register for CU 1000 are added to the course at the beginning of the term. Where do I find the CU 1000 syllabus, assignments, and other course materials? How do I complete and submit the CU 1000 assignments? All CU 1000 course materials, including the syllabus, assignments, and assignment due dates are posted in Canvas. To access Canvas, go to the Clemson homepage (clemson.edu) and click on ‘Students” in the upper-left corner. Then click on the “Canvas” link on the right side. Once you are logged in to Canvas, you will see the CU 1000 course link. Click on the CU 1000 link and all CU course materials can be found there. All CU 1000 assignments are completed and submitted in Canvas. Follow the instructions for completing and submitting assignments. Have questions about CU 1000? Contact the CU 1000 co-instructors, Ms. Bryn Babb or Dr. Sue Whorton Home About the Center About the Class of 1956 ASC Awards Academic Advising Success Matters CU 1000 For New Students and Families For Faculty and Staff For Prospective Student Employees Contact Us Related Links Academic Advising Academic Eligibility Policy Academic Forgiveness Policy Center for Career and Professional Development Catalog, Undergraduate Courses Counseling and Psychological Services Libraries Majors Ombuds, Undergraduate Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Student Accessibility Services Undergraduate Studies Writing Center Downloads ASC Annual Report Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram