Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »Office of Institutional Equity Office of Institutional Equity Home Discrimination & Harassment Title IX Equal Opportunity Complainants Respondents Training & Education About the Office Staff Vision, Values & Functions Civil Rights Laws Frequently Asked Questions Resources Resource Wheels Nondiscrimination Policy Nondiscrimination Notice EEO Policy Statement Office of Institutional Equity 103 Edwards Hall 1810 Kerr Drive Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6220 TTY or TRS: 711 equity@k-state.edu COVID-19 and OIE The Office of Institutional Equity staff has returned to working in office full time. If you need to make a report, please do so at this link. If you have business with OIE, please email equity@k-state.edu or call 785-532-6220 | TRS 711 to leave a voice message. Due to recent surge of COVID-19 cases in the area, office staff will only meet via zoom or phone calls until further notice. Fostering an inclusive environment for all K-State Kansas State University is committed to fostering a diverse student, faculty, and staff environment that is rooted in respect and fair practices. Learn more about the Office of Institutional Equity. OIE Investigates Concerns Under the Non-Discrimination Policy- PPM 3010 PPM 3010 covers discrimination based on race, color, ethnicity, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, age, ancestry, disability, genetic information, military status, or veteran status is prohibited. This Policy covers employees, students, applicants for employment or admission, contractors, vendors, visitors, guests, and participants in University-sponsored programs or activities. OIE services also include compiling and educating about the Affirmative Action Plan and equal opportunity program By 2025, Kansas State University will be recognized as one of the Top 50 nationally ranked research institutions. We will achieve this vision by recruiting and retaining a highly talented, diverse workforce and fostering excellent teaching, research and service to Kansas, the nation and the international community. Report "Equal opportunity to learn, work, and contribute." Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 3/15/22