Apply Now Live and breathe business in this highly practical, intensive six-week Online Business Bootcamp — specifically designed for Brown undergraduates and students from other leading universities. Gain essential business and practical workplace skills expected by today’s top employers. As you learn, you will put your ideas into action by working with a real corporate client, and immediately applying what you learned in the classroom to a business growth innovation. What topics will I study? In Business Bootcamp, learning is focused around developing new product innovations for a Boston-based company through a holistic approach that covers: New product planning: Explore the fit between company offerings and customer needs, and draft a value proposition. Marketing: Understand customer needs, validate hypotheses about customer demand, and develop an integrated marketing plan. Financial acumen: Read the financial statements of the business to understand key relationships and benchmark business models. Presentation Skills: Develop presentation skills to develop influence and pitch ideas for new business initiatives. Week-by-Week Topic List Topic 1: Growth Mindset Topic 2: Understanding Business & Customers Topic 3: Market Research & Brand Strategy Topic 4: Design Thinking & Strategy Topic 5: Product-Market Fit Topic 6: Working in Teams Topic 7: Financial Acumen Topic 8: Presentation Skills & Pitching What will I do at the Business Bootcamp? Business is about collaborating with others to creatively solve problems and that’s exactly what you’ll be doing. Be prepared to roll up your sleeves and become immersed in a practical, hands-on curriculum. Through a mix of the case method, flipped classroom techniques, interactive lectures, and team pitches, you’ll turn concepts learned in the classroom into viable business ideas that you will pitch to your professors, coaches, and the client. The Business Bootcamp culminates in a competitive final challenge where teams will pitch to executives with a multinational company. It’s through this authentic learning-by-doing method that you’ll develop the skills employers and entrepreneurs value most: effective communication, teamwork, and innovative thinking. This hands-on experience acts as intensive training for the rest of your career, teaching you how to develop influence so that employers and key stakeholders will follow your lead. Case Study The Client: Grupo Bimbo Bimbo Bakeries USA, the largest division of Group Bimbo (revenue: $15 billion), with brands including SaraLee, Thomas’, Entemanns, Arnolds, is facing disruptive shifts in the food industry. Changing consumer preferences, new trends in consumer goods purchasing (e.g. beyond the supermarket), and new technologies like AI, autonomous vehicles, blockchain are creating new opportunities for the company. The Bimbo Bakeries leadership team is challenging you to propose product innovation concepts for their strategic future, consistent with their philosophy of “Highly Productive and Deeply Humane”. An important aspect of this course is to apply what is learned in the classroom to a real corporate client through a consulting project. It will give students experience grappling with business problems at the leading edge of industry practice. Students will work with executives of a company to address a key corporate challenge and create an innovative solution for business growth. The corporate client challenge will establish customer and marketplace needs, examine cutting-edge technologies that can be applied to grow the business, and develop business models with the competitive landscape in mind. Students will then be able to present their business solutions to the client in a Pitch Contest at the end of the course. The Faculty Prof. Tessa Misiaszek Professor of Marketing, Boston Campus Hult International Business School View Profile Prof. Larry Louie Global Professor, San Francisco Campus Hult International Business School View Profile Prof. Robin Rose Associate Professor of the Practice of Leadership Brown University View Profile Who delivers the Business Bootcamp? Brown University has partnered with Hult International Business School to bring you this program, which is designed and taught by faculty from both schools. Renowned for its skills-focused approach to education and commitment to learning by doing, Hult is the first business school in the US to earn triple accreditation. Located in Boston, San Francisco, New York, London, Dubai, and Shanghai, and ranked by the Financial Times, Bloomberg Businessweek, Forbes, and the Wall Street Journal—Hult is the business school for those made to do. Brown University is an Ivy League institution with a long history of student-centered learning and commitment to engaging with and making an impact on the world. To find out more about Hult’s other programs, please visit www.hult.edu. st 1 Association of MBAs Career Strategy Award, 2020 nd 2 Poets and Quants, Life-Changing Experience, Best Undergraduate Business Schools, 2021 th 6 for International Students, Financial Times MBA Ranking, 2021 th 13 The Economist, Full-Time MBA Ranking, 2021 Contact Us Please fill out the form to hear more about the Hult Brown Business Bootcamp. Thank you for your submission! We will get back to you soon. You can also reach us at caroline_nordlund@brown.edu or visit https://gueststudents.brown.edu/hult Contact Us! Program Date: June 20 - August 5 For further information about the program, please fill out the form and we will get back to you. Or you can enroll directly through Brown University's Guest Student website at https://gueststudents.brown.edu/hult Program Fees The Hult-Brown Bootcamp is equivalent to one Summer Session Course (non-residential) + Enrollment Fee. Full pricing and fees can be found at https://www.brown.edu/about/administration/bursar/tuition-and-fees-0/summer-session Apply Now   
  
 You can also apply now via the online application form by clicking on the button below. Apply Now Hult International Business School is a 501 (c)(3) non-profit educational organization registered in the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE). Copyright © 2021 Hult International Business School. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy