Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College of Business & Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty & Staff Research News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About FCBE Dean's Office Strategic Objectives Facts & Figures Business Advisory Council Driving Directions Job Announcements Social Media Policy Faculty and StaffStudent Contact Us Take Action Apply to our Undergraduate Programs Apply to our Masters Programs Apply to our Doctoral Programs Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home Fogelman College of Business & Economics About FCBE Contact Us Contact The FCBE This page is designed to help you find answers to the most frequently asked questions about Fogelman College of Business & Economics. Please make use of the links below, they are your fastest pathways to a helpful answer. Legend Contacting Fogelman College by Mail or Phone Contacting Fogelman College by E-mail Applying to Fogelman College of Business & Economics Course Information/General Catalog Visiting The University of Memphis Need to Contact Fogelman College by Mail or Phone? Top of Page For general inquiries, write to: Individual's Name (optional) Fogelman College of Business & Economics, The University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152 For general phone inquiries, call: 901.678.2432 Need to Contact Fogelman College by E-mail? Top of Page If your questions do not pertain directly to the main college web page, please direct them to the relevant department on campus. You can find e-mail contact information by visiting a department or unit's web site. To find a department or unit specific web site, use our Departments Web Page or our search engines. Interested in Applying to Fogelman College of Business & Economics? Top of Page If you want to apply to Fogelman College Of Business & Economics, or if you have questions about admissions requirements, fees, financial aid, or the transfer process, please visit our Applying to The University of Memphis page, or contact the following resources directly: Undergraduate Student Services Office (USSO): USSO Website | Email USSO Phone: 901.678.2855 Fax: 901.678.4344 114 Fogelman College of Business & Economics The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Graduate Programs Office (GPO) GPO Website | Email GPO Fax: 901.678.4705 The University of Memphis Fogelman College of Business & Economics 101 Fogelman College Admin. Bldg. Memphis, TN 38152-3120 Executive MBA Programs Office (EMBA) EMBA Website | Email EMBA Office Phone: 901.678.4866 357 Fogelman College of Business & Economics The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Doctoral Program Office (PHD): PHD Website | Email PHD Office Phone: 901.678.3656 Fax: 901.678.3759 101E Fogelman College of Business & Economics The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 You can also find resources for international students online. Need Course Information or a General Catalog?Top of Page The General Catalog lists courses and curricula for all academic departments, units, groups, and interdisciplinary and special studies programs offering undergraduate and graduate degrees. It also includes extensive information on applications and admissions, degree requirements, financial aid, and student services. You can explore the online catalog Planning to Visit The University Of Memphis?Top of Page The Visitor Services web site contains information about tours, traveling to campus, and parking near campus. A campus map and campus tours are also available. Street Address: 3675 Central Avenue Memphis, TN 38152-3120 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.