Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Admission Visit Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Dean Stanton Wortham Mission & History About Carolyn and Peter Lynch Facts & Figures Contact Related Links Catholic Education Research Initiative Formative Education Initiative Admission Overview Why LSEHD? Tuition & Aid Deadlines & Requirements Request Info Related Links Undergraduate Admission & Aid Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Academics Overview Undergraduate Programs Applied Psychology and Human Development Elementary Education Secondary Education Transformative Educational Studies Lynch School Minors Interdisciplinary Majors Experience, Reflection, Action (ERA) Study Abroad Internal Transfer Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Professional & Continuing Education professional-certificates-instructional-design Certificate Programs Certificate in Human Rights and International Justice Certificate in Positive Youth Development Certificate in Child and Family Mental Health Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in International Higher Education Certificate in Institutional Research Certificate in Serving Exceptional Learners in Catholic Schools Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder Certificate in Bilingual Education Certificate in Deafblindness Certificate in Special Education Certificate in Teaching English Language Learners Online Programs Commencement Summer Session Departments CDEP Master of Arts (M.A.) in Mental Health Counseling Master of Arts (M.A.) in School Counseling Dual Master of Arts (M.A./M.A.) in Theology and Ministry and Counseling Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Counseling Psychology Counseling Practicum Applied Psychology Practicum z_archive applied-developmental-and-educational-psychology-ma /counseling-psychology-phd Test Page school-counseling mental-health-counseling counseling-psychology-phd Faculty & Expertise Counseling Practicum Program Offerings Admission Mission Program Aims & Learning Outcomes Student Admissions, Outcomes, & Other Data About Our Program Counseling Psychology Accreditation Professional Associations Academics & Training ELHE Educational Leadership and Policy, M.Ed. Master of Arts (M.A.) in Higher Education Higher Education Interview Days Master of Arts (M.A.) in International Higher Education Dual Degree Program (M.A./M.B.A.) Dual Degree Program (J.D./M.Ed./M.A.) Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Educational Leadership Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Higher Education _z_archive Certificate in Social Justice Leadership About Us Higher Education Scholars @ BC Blog higher-education-ma Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Information master-of-arts-in-higher-education-master-of-business-administra law-and-education-dual-degree-programs Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in Educational Policy Development Educational Leadership & Higher Education Blog Field Experience Program History Higher Education FAQ Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Mary Kinnane Award IDPG Master of Arts (M.A.) in Learning Engineering _z_archive MESA M.S. in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics M.A. in Research and Evaluation Methods Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment _z_archive Test New MESA Faculty Member Mission Statement Margeau Jong MESA Testimonials applied-statistics-and-psychometrics-ms Graduate Testimonials Graduate Voices MESA Students MESA Alumni & Employment Data MESA Research TCS Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Elementary Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Jesuit Education in a Global World Master of Education (M.Ed., C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Moderate Support Needs Master of Education in Secondary Education Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Extensive Support Needs Global Perspectives Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Curriculum and Instruction Special Education Licensure Offerings M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Moderate Support Needs M.Ed. in Moderate & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Secondary Education & Moderate Support Needs Urban Catholic Teacher Corps Student Teaching _z_archive Teacher Certification Related Links Programs of Study Student Teaching Academic Calendar Study Abroad Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Research Opportunities AERA 2022 Presentations APA 2021 Presentations Related Links News & Videos Academic Calendar Centers & Initiatives Overview Administrators in Catholic Higher Ed Catholic Education Research Community Justice & Engaged Pedagogy Early Childhood Policy Equitable Instruction Initiative Formative Education International Higher Ed International Human Rights Center for Thriving Children Psychological Humanities & Ethics Roche Center Testing, Evaluation, & Educational Policy The Campus School The Study of Race & Culture TIMSS & PIRLS International Study Center Urban Outreach Initiatives Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program Work Intervention Network Community Overview Mentoring & Advising Service Learning Living in Boston Global BC Resources Related Links Diversity & Inclusion Global Faculty Directory & Expertise BC Campus Life BC Veterans News & Videos Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Lynch School Website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Admission Visit Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Non-Degree Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close home Centers & Initiatives Urban Outreach Initiatives Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program TCS Teaching, Curriculum, and Society As part of an intensive one-year M.Ed. program that leads to licensure, Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars learn how to flourish as K–12 teachers in urban schools through a curriculum that prioritizes critical inquiry, social justice education, and community building. Apply Inquire At a Glance How many courses? The number of courses varies by program of study. How long will it take? Full-time students complete the program in one year. When can I start? Students must begin the program in the summer semester in order to complete the program in one year. Programs of Study Donovan scholars select the desired program from the list below which correlates with a state license. You may choose any state to become licensed in and will complete the appropriate assessment(s). For example, a person seeking a teacher license in Massachusetts will complete their educator preparation program (M.Ed.), receive endorsement, and pass the MTELs required for the subject area/grade level. Early Childhood Education Learn to teach, challenge, and nurture a diverse range of Pre-K–2 students. Learn More Elementary Education The Elementary Education program is designed for students who wish to teach in grades 1-6. Learn More Secondary Education Students can select one of three secondary education degree programs: Master of Education (M.Ed.), Master of Arts in Teaching (M.A.T), and Master of Science in Teaching (M.S.T) Learn More Moderate Special Needs This program prepares teachers to work with PreK-8 and 5-12 students with mild to moderate disabilities. Learn More Why the Donovan Program? Supportive Cohort Experience Donovan Scholars participate in cohort-centered courses and professional development courses. In addition, scholars in our cohorts are provided opportunities to leverage the dense bonding and diverse bridging relationships that are built into their Practicum experiences to grow as teachers and educators. Ultimately, our graduates go on to enjoy rewarding positions in urban education settings around the world. Commitment to Diversity Driven by the philosophy that educator diversity within urban schools should reflect the diverse population of students they serve, the program commits to recruiting aspiring educators of color. Each year the program rwelcomes a diverse cohort of up to 30 graduate students, many of whom were educated in urban schools themselves, and aspire to give back to their communities in constructive and lifelong ways. Year-Long Practicum Donovan Scholars are committed to pre- or full- practicum (student teaching) in our partner urban schools in mini-cohorts with our Donovan alumni. Additionally, the program has the capacity to adapt practicum requirements, if you are working as a teacher or teaching assistant in the local area. Inquiry-Based Urban Teacher Education The Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program builds on specific programs of study and intergrates interactive year-long shared inquiry seminars, classroom-based research, exploration of the relationships beteween theory and practice, and co-construction of critical perspectives about teaching, learning, and schooling. Alumni Community and Engagement Strong alumni mentoring and induction opportunities are provided for Donovan Scholars post graduation. Substantial Financial Assistance All Donovan Scholars receive 50% tuition remission. In addition, the Lynch School of Education and Human Development Graduate Admissions Office and Urban Outreach Initiatives works with each Donovan Scholar to create a generous financial package that may include additional grants, scholarships and internships. Applicants should complete the FAFSA process. Upon graduation, Donovan Scholars commit to teach in urban schools (Catholic, charter, or public) for at least three years. More About Financial Aid “In many ways, my work is a continuation of what I started as a Donovan Urban Teaching Scholar at BC. That program prepares educators to teach in urban classrooms in Boston. Over the years, it has been an important pipeline for developing equity-minded and social-justice-minded educators who teach to the whole student. Four of my former students have gone through the program and are now teachers themselves. To be able to see them in classrooms is just a really rewarding thing.” Dr. Charles Grandson IV, Chief Equity and Strategy Officer, Boston Public Schools Hear More From Charles Distinguished Donovan Alumni Dr. Michelle Sanchez Principal of Epiphany School Ashana Hurd Assistant Dean for Professional Development and Urban Outreach at Boston College Sam Texeira Teacher at Chicago Public Schools, 2019 Boston Public Schools Educator of the Year Kevin Dua Teacher at Cambridge Rindge and Latin School, 2017 Massachusetts History Teacher of the Year Dr. Charles Grandson IV Chief Equity and Strategy Officer at BPS Katherine Atkins Pattenson Middle School Teacher at Gardner Pilot Academy Marcus Penny Computer Science Teacher at San Francisco Unified District Carmen Pierre Canel Middle School Principal of Academy of the Pacific Rim Charter School Mwalimu Donker Issa Coordinator of Target Programs at BPS Apply Print If you have questions about the application, please email donopgrm@bc.edu. If you have questions regarding the receipt of application materials, please email gsoe@bc.edu. Application & Deadlines In order to apply to the Donovan program, applicants must: Demonstrate a prior commitment to meeting the needs of children and families in urban areas Submit an application to the Lynch School of Education and Human Development, and be accepted into a M.Ed. of Education program in early childhood, elementary, secondary, or moderate special needs education. (Please check Donovan in the pull-down menu. Indicate your interest in Urban Education and Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars in your personal statement). At this time, Donovan Scholars are not able to participate in dual-licensure programs because the amount of required credits exceeds the length of the one-year program. Apply Now A non-refundable application fee of $75 is required, however, this fee is waived for select applicants. To view the list of approved waivers, view the Application Fee Waiver criteria below. Upon graduation, Donovan Scholars commit to teach in urban schools (Catholic, charter or public) for at least 3 years. Application Fee Waivers Deadlines Regular Decision: January 6 Resume To be uploaded to your online application form. In addition to your academic history and relevant work experience, please include any licenses currently held, any social justice-related experience, and language skills other than English, and any research experience or publications. Personal Statement To be uploaded to your online application form. In 1,000 - 1,500 words, describe your academic and professional goals, any experience relevant to this program, and your future plans, expectations, and aspirations. The intention of your personal statement is to describe your academic and professional goals as well as any experience relevant to the program to which you are applying. It is an opportunity for you to demonstrate your writing skills as you describe your future plans, expectations, and aspirations. A personal statement is required of applicants to all graduate programs and should be approximately 1,000-1,500 words, double-spaced. Letters of Recommendation Identification of recommenders/instructions to recommenders are outlined in the online application form. Two letters of recommendation are required with at least one required from an academic source. Applicants may submit one additional recommendation of their choice. Transcripts Unofficial transcripts will be accepted in lieu of official transcripts for the application review process. If you are admitted and enroll, our office will need official transcripts prior to course registration. To expedite application processing times, our office encourages you to send unofficial transcripts electronically to our email address at gsoe@bc.edu. Please note that unofficial transcripts must include all of the following items: Course titles and grades for each course Year and entry term for each of the courses listed Translated into English by certified translation agent (if not already in English) Original and translated transcripts must be provided If you are able to secure official transcripts, please note the following: An official postsecondary transcript must be printed on official institutional paper and include at least one of the following: an institutional watermark, the registrar’s signature, or the registrar's seal. Copies and unofficial transcripts sent directly from applicants are not acceptable, the transcript must come directly from the institution. If you are a current student and have not completed your undergraduate and/or graduate degree, the most updated version of your transcript is acceptable. Official electronic transcripts are accepted when sent directly to gsoe@bc.edu from the institution. When requesting electronic transcripts, you must manually type in gsoe@bc.edu to ensure it is received by our office. Mailed transcript(s) should be sent to the following address: Lynch Office of Graduate Admissions, Boston College Campion Hall 135 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 FAQ Given the circumstances of COVID-19, does Donovan still require the GRE as part of the application process? No, the GRE is not required for Donovan or other Teacher Education programs this academic year. Will Donovan offer info sessions or webinars? Will they be held in person or virtual? To be announced. Can I meet with anyone to understand more about Donovan as I work through my application? Of course! Please email us at donopgrm@bc.edu. Do I have to be admitted to both the Lynch School and Donovan to be in the Donovan program? Yes, in order to be a part of the Donovan program you must be admitted to both the Lynch School as well as the Donovan Program. However, you can be admitted into the Lynch School and continue your program of study but not as a Donovan. How many people are typically admitted into Donovan per year? Typically, around 30 Donovan students are admitted per year. When is the application due? The application is due January 6, 2021. How does the program distribute financial aid? All Donovan Scholars receive 50% tuition remission. In addition, the Lynch School's Graduate Admissions Office and Urban Outreach Initiatives works with each Donovan Scholar to create a generous financial package that may include additional grants, scholarships and internships. Applicants should complete the FAFSA process. When does the program start? How long does the program take? The program begins in June and goes through a calendar year. Thus, Donovan will start in the summer and conclude at the end following summer. Donovan Scholars will still be able to walk in the May graduation. The Donovan Program Through the Years « » Quick Links Facts & Figures Faculty Why LSEHD? Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Tuition & Aid Department TCS Teaching, Curriculum, and Society Contact Us donopgrm@bc.edu 617-552-0695 Back To Top Back To Top Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Campion Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4200 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Community Apply Visit Give CONNECT WITH US Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College