Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Center for International Business Education and Research People at CIBER Home » Centers & Initiatives » Center for International Business Education and Research » People at CIBER » People at CIBER Menu Center for International Business Education and Research People at CIBER Projects Research Events Books Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News CIBER is a center that is rich in human resources that interact within the Georgia Campus as well as with the buisness community. Besides the CIBER main staff, there is the CIBER Advisory Council and the CIBER Core Faculty Group. CIBER Staff View Profile » Jim Hoadley Associate Director of CIBER View Profile » John McIntyre Executive Director, GT CIBER View Profile » Francis Ulgado Faculty Research Director, CIBER Jim Hoadley Status:Staff Program:CIBER James Hoadley brings extensive personal experience to the Georgia Tech CIBER. He lived in Japan for nearly eight years, where he worked for Seiko Epson Corporation. He also worked as Human Resources manager for a Japanese-owned auto parts supplier in South Carolina before coming to Georgia Tech. He has an MBA from Georgia Tech and a graduate diploma in foreign language teaching and B.A. in international studies from the University of South Carolina. He is fluent in Japanese. John McIntyre Status:Faculty, Staff Program:CIBER Dr.  John R. McIntyre is founding Director of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Center for International Business Education and Research (CIBER), professor of management (strategy area) with a courtesy appointment in international relations in the Georgia Tech’s Sam Nunn School of International Affairs. He received his graduate education at Northeastern University, completing his Ph.D. at the University of Georgia. Prior to joining Georgia Tech in September 1981, he was research associate for international management at the Dean Rusk Center of the University of Georgia Law School. He has published in journals such as Technology and Society, Public Administration Quarterly, International Management Review, Defense Analysis, Studies in Comparative and International Development, The Journal of European Marketing, Politique Internationale, International Executive, International Trade Journal, among others. Author or coauthor of the following books: Uncertainty in Business-Government Relations: The Dynamics of International Trade Policy, The Political Economy of International Technology Transfer, International Space Policy: Legal, Economic, and Strategic Options for the Twentieth Century and Beyond, Japan’s Technical standards: Implications for Global Competitiveness, Business and Management Education in China: Transition, Pedagogy and Training, A Handbook: Business and Management Education in Transitioning and Developing Country, Globalization of Chinese Enterprises, The Multinational Enterprise and the Challenge of Sustainable Development. His professional memberships include: Sigma Xi, The Academy of International Business, The Academy of Management, Policy Studies Organization, The American Society for Public Administration. He is the recipient of the State of Georgia Governor’s 2009 International Award in international business education in 2009. Dr. McIntyre is an expert on the primary aluminum industry. He is fluent in French, Italian, and Spanish. Related Links GT CIBER Website Francis Ulgado Status:Faculty, Staff Program:CIBER Francis M. Ulgado, PhD, is currently an Associate Professor and CIBER Faculty Research Director at the College of Business, Georgia Institute of Technology. Professor Ulgado received his PhD in international business from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and an MA and MBA from the University of Hawaii at Manoa. Dr. Ulgado has published in a variety of journals such as the International Marketing Review, the Journal of International Marketing, International Business Review, Journal of Services Marketing, and the Journal of Marketing Management. At Georgia Tech, Dr. Ulgado has developed and taught courses in International Marketing, Strategic Marketing, Consumer Behavior, and Marketing Management in both the undergraduate and graduate programs. He has also participated in and taught Marketing and International Marketing modules in the Executive Master's in the Management of Technology Program (EMSMOT) as well as other executive education programs and initiatives. He has also taught courses at the University of Hawaii at Manoa and at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Dr. Ulgado's areas of research and teaching interests include international marketing, cross-cultural consumer behavior, country image effects on perception, international advertising, multinational firm behavior, foreign direct investment location, and strategic marketing. He has consulted for Marriott, Hawaii; Bell Inc., Illinois; Johnson Research & Development, Atlanta; and Lipman, Richmond, and Green Advertising, New York. Currently, Dr. Ulgado serves on the editorial board of the Multinational Business Review and is a member of the Academy of International Business, and the American Marketing Association. A full vita is available upon request. CIBER Fellows Faculty Fellows of the Georgia Tech Center for International Business Education and Research* *All faculty received a research award from the GT CIBER become faculty fellows, see a recent list under awards, in addition to the below specifically listed. Ilan Alon, Professor, Strategy and International Marketing, School of Law and Business, University of Agder, Kristiansand, Norway Julian Chang, Laureate International Universities’ China, Shanghai, China ; former   Associate Dean, Schwarzman Scholars at Tsinghua University, Beijing ; former Executive Director, Rajawali Foundation Institute for Asia, Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation, Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University Silvester Ivanaj, Professsor,  ICN Graduate School of Business, University of Lorraine,  Nancy, France Vera Ivanaj, HDR, Maître de Conférences,   ENSIC,  Université de Lorraine, Nancy, France  Rabi Narayan Kar, Professor & Principal, SLC, University of Delhi, India Christoph Lattemann, Professor of Business Administration and Information Management, Business & Economics, Jacobs University, Bremen, Germany Naresh Malhotra,  Senior Fellow, Georgia Tech CIBER, Regents’ Professor Emeritus, Editor-in-Chief, Review of Marketing Research, Scheller College of Business, Georgia Institute of Technology Stewart R. Miller, Ph.D., Senior Fellow, Georgia Tech CIBER, Professor of Management, The University of Texas at San Antonio, Adjunct Professor, Dept. of Cardiothoracic Surgery, UT Health, San Antonio, Texas  Deepraj Mukherjee, Faculty Fellow, Georgia Tech CIBER,  Associate Professor, Department of Economics, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio Raymond Saner, International Relations & International Management, Sciences Po, Paris & University of Basel, Switzerland; Director, Center for Socio-Economic Development William Wang Hua, Professor of Innovation Management, Associate Dean of EM Lyon Business School, Dean of EM Lyon Business School Asia, Lyon, France Francesca Spigarelli, Professor, Applied Economics, Director, China Center, UMINC, University of Macerata, Macerata, Italy Remy Magnier-Watanabe,   Associate Professor of International Business,  Graduate School of Business Sciences,   University of Tsukuba, Tokyo  Wenxian Zhang, Professor, Head of Archives & Special Collections,  Anthropology, Asian Studies, Rollins College, Winter Park, Florida CIBER Advisory Council Mr. Ani Agnihotri, President and Vice Chair DEC, District Export Council/USA India Business Research Center Dr. Maryam Alavi, Dean ,Scheller College of Business * Ex Officio Ms. Claire Angelle, Founder, Angelle Consulting Mr. David Bridges, Vice President, Enterprise Innovation Institute Mr. Adam Bruns, Editor in Chief of Site Selection, Conway Inc. Dr. Lalit Dhingra, Founder & CEO, EnSignis Mr. Kazuyoshi Domoto, Executive Director, Japan America Society of Georgia Mr. Robert Erwin, Senior International Business Consultant, University of Georgia SBDC Ms. Marta Garcia, Vice President - Development, Georgia Institute of Technology Dr. Soumen Ghosh, Senior Associate Dean, Scheller College of Business Mr. Michael Gomez, President, Allegro Consulting Ms. Amy Henry, Director, Office of International Education Dr. Kaye Husbands-Feeling, Dean, Ivan Allen College * Ex Officio Dr. Laurence Jacobs, Senior Vice Provost for Education and Learning Dr. Bernard Kippelen, Vice Provost for International Initiatives, Georgia Tech - Chair Mr. Sebastien Lafon, Founder, Adapt1st Mr. Alain Louchez, Director Emeritus & Founder, Georgia Tech Center of Development and Application of Internet of Things Ms. Regina Maddox, Executive Director, Next Generation Manufacturing Dr. Naresh Malhotra, Emeritus Professor, Scheller College of Business Dr. John McIntyre, Director, Georgia Tech CIBER Dr. Steven McLaughlin, Provost, Georgia Institute of Technology * Ex Officio Dr. Ray Perren, Deputy Commissioner, Technical College System of Georgia Mr. Mack Reese, President, Gateway Ventures Ms. Barbara Rose, Founder, New Generation Partnerships Mr. Karl Ryder, President, The Ryder Group Dr. David Shook, Interim Chair, School of Modern Languages Mr. Iwan Streichenberger, President, Pearson Online Learning Services Dr. Adam Stulberg, Chair, Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Mr. Max Sutherland, Chairman, Executive Committee, World Trade Center Atlanta Ms. Paula Tkac, Senior Vice President and Associate Director of Research, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta Mr. George Tracy, Director, U.S. Export Assistance Center, Sunbelt Network Dr. Sheb True, Associate Vice Provost - Division of Global Affairs, Kennesaw State University Ms. Mary Waters, Deputy Commissioner, Georgia Department of Economic Development Ms. Lani Wong, Founder, National Association of Chinese Americans Mr. John Woodward, Vice President - Global Commerce, Metro Atlanta Chamber Mr. Khalil Younes, President Global Category - Emerging, The Coca Cola Company Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures