Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Legal Affairs & General Counsel General Counsel right arrow down arrow Office of General Counsel right arrow down arrow Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Enterprise Risk Management right arrow down arrow Insurance & Claims right arrow down arrow Insurance Verification or Claims History right arrow down arrow Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training right arrow down arrow Drones right arrow down arrow Flight Request Form Fleet Safety right arrow down arrow Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process right arrow down arrow Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Privacy Internal Audit Home » About UC » Legal Affairs & General Counsel » Office of General Counsel » Public Records Requests Set Navigation title in component Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Public Records Requests As a public office, the University of Cincinnati is subject to Ohio’s Public Records Act. Under the Public Records Act, any person may request to see the public records of the University. While the University strives to be transparent with the public it serves, there are some records that are not subject to disclosure under the Public Records Act for a variety of reasons such as certain privacy concerns. For more information regarding public records requests, please refer to the FAQ section below and read the University's Public Records Policy. We also encourage you to review the Ohio Sunshine Law Manual, which is updated annually by the office of the Ohio Attorney General. The manual outlines the public’s rights and public servants’ obligations under the open-government laws. If you are a student seeking your education records, please visit the University of Cincinnati’s Office of the Registrar. Frequently Asked Questions How do I make a public records request? right arrow down arrow Public records requests may be submitted via email to public.records@uc.edu or via mail to: Public Records Manager Office of General Counsel University of Cincinnati PO Box 210661 Cincinnati, Ohio 45221-0661 What is a "public record"? right arrow down arrow A public record means (1) any document, device, or item, regardless of physical form or characteristic, including electronic record, (2) created or received by or coming under the jurisdiction of the public office, (3) which serves to document the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the public office. What is a non-record? right arrow down arrow If a document does not meet all three parts of the definition of “public record” above, then it is a non-record and is not subject to the Public Records Act. Can I request answers to questions or obtain information through a public records request? right arrow down arrow The Public Records Act governs the release of records, not answers to questions or requests for information. What types of documents can be considered a public record? right arrow down arrow Public records may include records such as personnel files, reports, contracts, and certain correspondence that documents University operations and that meets the three-part definition of a “public record.” Are certain documents exempt from release? right arrow down arrow The Public Records Act protects certain records by either requiring or allowing a public office to withhold them from public release. You may find those exemptions at O.R.C. 149.43 or by referring to the Ohio Sunshine Law Manual. What if portions of the documents are redacted? right arrow down arrow Often, if only part of a record is protected by an exception, then the public office will redact or obscure only that part of the record and provide the remaining, unprotected portion, to the requester. What type of information is likely to be redacted? right arrow down arrow Some examples of information that is likely to be redacted from records include personally identifiable information, such as social security numbers, drivers’ license numbers, and account numbers, as well as medical information, student education records, and trade secrets. Can I request student information through a public records request? right arrow down arrow Generally, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act prohibits the disclosure of a student’s education records without the student’s written consent. Can a student request their own student records? right arrow down arrow Students may request their own education records through the Office of the Registrar. Can I request University Hospital and/or UC Health records? right arrow down arrow No. The medical facility is a separate entity and not part of the public institution. You may reach out to the Office of General Counsel, UC Health, 3200 Burnet Avenue, 5th Floor, Room 5112, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229 for any records associated with UC Health and/or the University of Cincinnati Medical Center. If you cannot find the answer to your questions here, please contact: Betty (Jean) Gabbard Senior Legal Assistant 368 University Hall 513-558-3485 (Main) | 513-556-4526 (Direct) Betty.Gabbard@uc.edu Disclaimer The information on this website is only current as of the date of publication. For most up to date information, please visit the source documents, regulations, and websites cited within. The information on this website is for informational purposes only and is not to be considered legal advice. Contact an attorney directly for assistance with addressing current University legal issues. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top