Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Public Health Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Public Health Major Apply Visit Request More Info Public Health Major Accreditation Admissions Fieldwork and Internships Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Public Health The Bachelor of Science in Public Health at Temple’s College of Public Health gives you the theoretical knowledge and practical experience you need to improve health and quality of life for individuals, communities and populations. Students pursuing this degree will research, interpret and use health data in real-world circumstances through fieldwork placements at public health–related organizations and agencies in the community. The practical experience you gain will deepen and refine your understanding of public health from the institutional perspective. The field of public health focuses on preventing disease and injury, protecting health, and promoting the conditions in which people can be healthy. In this degree program you will study the fundamentals of public health theory and practice, including disease prevention and control, the psychology behind people’s health habits, the political and financial aspects of the U.S. healthcare system, and other topics. Upon graduating from this degree program, you will be prepared for entry-level employment positions in a wide variety of public health–related organizations. Graduates pursue careers in areas of community health including maternal and child health, nutrition and physical activity, and chronic disease prevention. Graduates also go on to conduct research in social and behavioral sciences and in clinical fields, among others. They work in a variety of settings, including community health organizations, hospitals, nonprofit agencies, public health departments and rehabilitation centers. What sets apart our Bachelor of Science in Public Health? Join a renowned program: Our Bachelor of Science in Public Health, part of a CEPH-accredited school of public health, is known for its long history of high-quality education. Our professors and instructors serve as mentors, invest extra time for individualized work with student, and use innovative teaching methods. Take advantage of real-world experience: Through the program’s fieldwork experience, students apply their classroom learning to real-world scenarios in health services or public health organizational settings that prepare them to launch their careers. Learn from our expert faculty: Our faculty are experts in areas such as cancer prevention, global health, health policy, maternal and child health, nutrition and obesity, substance abuse, and more. Minor Option The College of Public Health offers a related Public Health minor, which is available to students outside the BS in Public Health program. The Public Health minor expands your understanding of how the natural sciences, social sciences and technology can be used to help solve human health problems. Students in the minor explore the fundamentals of public health research and practice, and learn to see the world through a public health lens. The minor’s required coursework explores the core areas of public health, preparing you to examine a variety of issues from a population health perspective. Additional elective courses allow you to shape the minor to complement your major, as well as your specific interests and career goals. Completing the Public Health Minor improves your marketability in many professional paths, including social work, kinesiology, education, business, health professions, psychology, health communication and others. The minor also prepares students to pursue graduate training in public health. Accelerated Undergraduate/Graduate Degree Program The College of Public Health offers high-performing students the option of earning both a bachelor of science and master of public health (MPH) in five years, rather than taking the typical six years to complete both degrees. This rigorous, accelerated program is available with the following MPH programs. MPH in Applied Biostatistics MPH in Epidemiology MPH in Health Policy and Management MPH in Social and Behavioral Sciences Students apply during the spring of their sophomore year and are admitted into the degree program in the fall of their junior year. Admitted students take one graduate course during each semester of their junior and senior year (four courses total) and can complete the MPH within one year of graduating from the BS program. Learn more about the 4+1 BS/MPH program. Program Format Students in the program complete 120 credits, including 68 credits of public health courses. See a full list of program courses. Our Academic Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. Our advising staff will work with you to set goals and help you reach your academic potential. Meet our academic advisors. Related Graduate Degrees MPH in Applied Biostatistics MPH in Epidemiology MPH in Health Policy and Management MPH in Social and Behavioral Sciences MS in Epidemiology PhD in Epidemiology PhD in Social and Behavioral Sciences PhD in Health Policy and Health Services Research Master of Social Work (MSW) Related Undergraduate Degrees Applied Epidemiology minor Public Health minor Nutrition minor Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away Become an informed, active global citizen and enrich your education by studying away. Explore Temple’s study abroad opportunities, including information about specific programs and visas, as well as resources on cultural adaptation, diversity matters, and health and safety. Learn more about studying away. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,184.00 per year Out-of-state: $35,016.00 per year HP-PBHL-BS Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Public Health Major Accreditation Admissions Fieldwork and Internships Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info