About Department History Facilities Spotlight Graduation Employment Faculty Awards Staff Awards Visit ECE News News Calendar Social Media People Primary Faculty Supporting Faculty Staff Postdocs Visiting Scholars Undergrad Undergraduate Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering REES Concentration Undergraduate Research Scholarships Apply Graduate Graduate Master’s Doctoral Certificate Degrees Graduate FAQ Apply Research Research Bioelectronics Engineering Communications and Signal Processing Computer Architecture and Systems Control, Robotics, and Mechatronics Electronic Circuits and Systems Networking Physical Electronics, Photonics & Magnetics Power Electronics and Power Systems Centers & Labs Funded Research Seminars Engagement Engagement Advisory Board Alumni Alumni in Academia ECE & Alumni Startups Distinguished Alumni Archived: Alumni Hall of Fame Corporate Student Organizations Select Page You may think that ECE is magic— and it kind of is. Because ECE is filled with daring visionaries and bright minds who engage, imagine and invent. We are the masters of power and energy and light and systems that can turn science fiction into living, breathing science. We are the force that connects people and technologies with elegant devices that fit in the palm of your hand and colossal systems that are beyond imagination. We are the spark, the energy, and the catalyst — the generators of ideas, champions of possibility and the fuel for change. We dream big, bet big, and see it through, because we know it’s our job to help shape a better world for all. Is that magic? Almost. And we’d love to show you how it works. Commencement CeremonyLive on May 5 Support the Next GenerationLearn more Live from Michael Faraday’s Lab: An Intuitive and Historical Perspective on Electromagnetism May 23, 2022 | Events, News Dr. Ricketts will recreate Faraday’s original experiments to share the history and the natural intuition that Faraday had, and most importantly, how you can use the Faraday approach to better understand the dynamics and effects of electromagnetism yourself. New Approach From ECE Researchers Allows for Faster Ransomware Detection May 19, 2022 | Research NC State Electrical and Computer Engineering researchers have developed a new approach for implementing ransomware detection techniques, allowing them to detect a broad range of ransomware far more quickly than previous systems. Ajit Kanale Receives Outstanding PhD Student of the Year Award from the College of Engineering May 18, 2022 | Awards Congratulations to Ajit Kanale for receiving the College of Engineering 2021-22 Outstanding PhD Student of the Year Award! Center for Advanced Electronics through Machine Learning (CAEML) Receives Phase II Funding from NSF May 12, 2022 | Research The NSF has granted funding for the Center for Advanced Electronics through Machine Learning (CAEML) for its second five-year phase of research. André Mosley Recognized with 2022 Engineering Award for Excellence May 10, 2022 | News Congratulations to ECE Desktop Support Administrator, André Mosley, for being one of the winners of the College of Engineering’s Award for Excellence. 350 ECE Graduates Recognized at the Spring 2022 Commencement Ceremony May 10, 2022 | News The Spring 2022 Commencement Ceremony was held in Reynolds Coliseum on May 5, 2022, where over 350 graduating students were honored for their achievements. Research to Renewal: Advancing University Tech Transfer May 6, 2022 | Heartland Forward The American research university is a unique institution that much of the world has long tried to emulate. Many times underappreciated in the U.S., research universities are one of the most important knowledge assets of cities and states for economic development purposes. These universities influence the economic prospects of their regions and the nation overall in multiple ways. NC State ranks at #7 in Technology Transfer and Commercialization. Department Of Energy Announces Winners Of Solar Forecasting Prize March 28, 2022 | Department of Energy The five winning teams, including NC State’s Wenyuan Tang, will each receive $50,000, and had the best-performing forecasting models and strongest plans to accelerate the adoption of probabilistic forecasts. New Fulbright scholar seeks to accelerate EV for resources industry March 14, 2022 | https://www.miragenews.co Iqbal Husain has secured a prestigious Fulbright Future Scholarship funded by the Kinghorn Foundation where he will collaborate with Curtin renewable energy experts to develop a model for electric vehicle charging stations, with a particular focus on the resources sector. As one of only two institutions to be home to two concurrent NSF Engineering Research Centers, one of three NSF Platforms for Advanced Wireless Research Initiatives, the home of the Department of Energy’s PowerAmerica institute, and leaders in the only North America IBM Quantum Hub, we are ranked among the top academic units engaged in scientific research in the United States. Visit Apply Values Give Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering 890 Oval Drive 3114 Engineering Building II Raleigh, NC 27606 Tel. 919.515.2336 Fax. 919.515.5523 Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow © NC State University. All rights reserved. Contact Webmaster | Accessibilty | Privacy | myECE myECE © NC State University. All rights reserved.