Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Main College College News About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Give Search Information for new Faculty College Bylaws College Meetings Faculty Support Finance & Administration Faculty and Personnel Affairs Graduate and Administrative Services Research Support Services and Administration Center for Advanced Microscopy – UMCAM Summer Institute Zebrafish Core Facility Computer and Web Support About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give More Sites Main College College News Information for new Faculty College Bylaws College Meetings Faculty Support Finance & Administration Faculty and Personnel Affairs Graduate and Administrative Services Research Support Services and Administration Center for Advanced Microscopy – UMCAM Summer Institute Zebrafish Core Facility Computer and Web Support About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Giving Home Faculty and Staff Faculty Support AAA Faculty Support Information for new Faculty College Bylaws College Meetings Faculty Support Finance & Administration Faculty and Personnel Affairs Graduate and Administrative Services Research Support Services and Administration Center for Advanced Microscopy – UMCAM Summer Institute Zebrafish Core Facility Computer and Web Support The College of Arts & Sciences (A&S) at the University of Miami is a community of scholars and students who cultivate personal commitments to lifelong learning, intellectual growth, and the enduring values of the liberal arts. With substantial research funding from the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and a number of other public and private sponsors, UM’s College of Arts & Sciences is a leader in research and scholarship. Academic Analytics ranks the majority of our programs among the best in the country. “Research and teaching depend upon faculty leadership and creativity. We are committed to attracting, developing and retaining the very best scholars.” — Dean Leonidas G. Bachas A&S is home to 440 full-time faculty representing the very top of their fields. The following information describes programs the College has developed to help A&S faculty achieve continuous success. FACULTY AWARDS The College of Arts & Sciences recognizes the excellence of its teachers, scholars, and researchers. These awards recognize outstanding A&S faculty. Cooper Fellowship The fellowship is a three-year appointment including an annual research fund of $15,000. Three Cooper Fellows are chosen based on excellence in contributing to our core missions of scholarship, teaching and service. Gabelli Senior Scholar The Gabelli Senior Scholar Award recognizes a faculty member at the associate professor level for interdisciplinary scholarship, outstanding contributions to the College and the University, and exceptional promise of future success. This three-year appointment includes an annual research allocation of $5,000 upon availability of the endowment returns. UNIVERSITY-WIDE RESEARCH FUNDING OPPORTUNITIES In addition to the College, the University provides funding for research through internal competition. Visit www.uresearch.miami.edu for more information. SCHOLARSHIP & RESEARCH SUPPORT A&S fosters programs that help incubate research and develop scholarship across disciplines. We ensure that our faculty have adequate time to engage in their research, scholarship and creative endeavors, including professional development. ‌ Convergence Research Groups Convergence groups test original research ideas that address some of the grand challenges facing humanity in this century. Funding is available for convergence projects up to $60,000 in direct costs per year. Read the full policy here: Request for Proposals - Convergence Research Groups‌ Start-up, Seed and Bridge Funding Start-up funding is available to support new faculty advance their research agenda at UM/in the College. Seed funding invigorates scholarly productivity with smaller grants to pursue new research or to complete ongoing projects that can lead to further funding. Bridge funding provides temporary support when grant funding has ceased and there is a reasonable expectation of future funding. Read the full policy here: Policy on Seed and Bridge Funding to Support Faculty Research‌ Funding for Travel to Meet with Program Officers Up to $1,500 can be requested for travel to meet with program officers in federal funding agencies and foundations. Funding for Travel to Attend Grant Writing Workshops Up to $1,500 can be requested to attend grant writing workshops organized by federal agencies, such as NIH, NSF, NEH, etc. Program to Support Faculty Career Progression Post-Tenure Recently tenured professors are provided with guidance, resources and support at this juncture. Read the full policy here: Program to Support Faculty Career Progression Post-Tenure‌ Pre-Tenure Faculty Leave (formerly called Junior Faculty Leave) All tenure-track A&S faculty are eligible to apply for a one-semester leave to support research efforts during their probationary period. Read the full policy here: Pre-Tenure Faculty Research Leave Policy‌ Leaves and Supplemental Salary for Fellowships and Scholarships Support is given for faculty members whose main source of extramural funding comes from fellowships and scholarships, when those prestigious awards do not cover the entirety of the faculty member’s 9-month salary (top off). Read the full policy here: College Policy on Leaves and Supplemental Salary for Fellowships/Scholarships‌ Funding for Travel to international conferences to present their work Up to $1,500 can be requested for travel to make presentation at international conferences, not including travel to Canada, the Caribbean, Mesoamerica, and Mexico. Read the full policy here: International Travel Award‌ ASSISTANCE WITH PUBLISHING AND GRANT WRITING The College recognizes that developing proposals and manuscripts for publication can be a complex process; thus, we have established programs to enlist external reviewers and provide support funding for faculty publishing needs. External Reviewer Program Assists A&S Principal Investigators who are writing proposals of more than $50,000 for submission to a major agency (e.g., NIH, NSF, NEH, DOE, etc.), with an honorarium for senior scholars from other universities who review their proposals to help strengthen the application. Read the full policy here: External Reviewer Policy‌ Proposal Editing Program Covers editing services from qualifed service providers prior to submission of the proposal by pre-tenure faculty who are writing proposals of $50,000 or greater for submission to a major agency (e.g. NIH, NSF, NEH, DOE, etc.). Read the full policy here: Proposal Editing Policy‌ Review of Book-Length Manuscripts before Submission Assists faculty in the final stages of manuscript preparation (before submission to a press) with funding to solicit an extensive reader’s report from an expert in the pertinent research area. Read the full policy here: Book Manuscript Review Policy‌ Publication Support Fund Funding support to tenured and tenure-track faculty for costs associated with publication. These costs include, but are not limited to, publication subvention, page charges, and copyright fees. Read the full policy here: Faculty Publication Support Fund Policy‌ ‌ PEDAGOGY PROGRAMS Innovation in education is strongly supported throughout the College. Funding and support are available, and faculty members are encouraged to involve outside experts to enhance teaching and learning. Funding Available for Pedagogy Workshops Funding of $2,000 per department is available for workshops that explore new instructional strategies or techniques. Read the full policy here: Call for Pedagogy Workshop 2019-2020 Summer Writing Institute The Summer Writing Institute provides full-time faculty in the College of Arts and Sciences with tools and strategies to further integrate writing instruction into content-based classes.‌ For additional information click here. PROGRAMS TO ASSIST LECTURERS The College provides professional development and research support for lecturers and senior lecturers. Funding important opportunities for career enhancement brings new knowledge to the classroom and allows A&S lecturers to realize their scholarly and artistic ambitions. Travel to Conferences Up to $600 is availabe for lecturers to attend conferences or their equivalents (e.g., workshops, roundtables, panels) at which they will present and/or discuss their work. Read the full policy here: College Policy to Assist Lecturers‌ Travel for Professional Development The College will fund up to two travel expense awards of $1500. These awards are intended to support lecturers’ attendance at domestic conferences, meetings, training seminars, or workshops that will enhance their effectiveness in the classroom through exposure to new and/or enhanced pedagogical techniques. Read the full policy here: College Policy to Assist Lecturers‌ Summer Research Support The College will fund up to five summer research awards of $2,000 each. Depending on the type of research, the lecturer may partner with a tenure-track faculty member. Read the full policy here: College Policy to Assist Lecturers‌ University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College of Arts and Sciences 1252 Memorial Drive Ashe Building - Rm # 227 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305- 284-4117 305- 284-4117 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard WebMail Leave Feedback UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Library Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Contact Us Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices