Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Administration & Staff History ML - Memphis Law Magazine Strategic Plan Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity HomeTIPMPDPPlus ProgramSTAIScholarships Facilities Facilities OverviewVirtual TourFloor PlansPhoto Gallery News & Events Law School NewsOn Legal Grounds BlogML-Memphis Law MagazineEvents CalendarCommunications OfficeProgram Rankings Directions Contact Us Media ResourceGeneral Contact InfoFaculty & Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home School of Law About Directions DIRECTIONS TO MEMPHIS LAW The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law 1 North Front Street Memphis, TN 38103-2189 (901) 678-2421 Memphis Law is located in the heart of the downtown legal and business community. We can be easily accessed via several major interstates and are only a short distance from the Memphis International Airport. From the University of Memphis main campus: Take Central Ave. West, turn right onto S. Hollywood St., go North and take a left on Union Ave., head downtown making a right onto Front St. Memphis Law is on the left at Front St. and Madison Ave. From the East on I-40: Take I-40 West toward Little Rock. Take Exit 1 for Riverside Dr. toward downtown Memphis. Turn left at Jefferson Ave. Take the first right onto Front St. Memphis Law is on the right at 1 North Front Street. From the airport: Head North to Plough Blvd. Take the ramp onto I-240 West. Take Exit 31 to merge onto I-40 West toward Little Rock. Take Exit 1 for Riverside Dr. toward downtown Memphis. Turn left at Jefferson Ave. Take the first right onto Front St. Memphis Law is on the right. From Mississippi (I-55): Follow I-55 north and take the left exit towards St. Louis when I-55 meets I-240. Follow I-55 towards downtown. Continue driving straight at exit 12B (Riverside Drive) when I-55 splits off to cross into Arkansas. Follow Riverside Drive along the Mississippi River until you reach Monroe Ave. Turn right on Monroe Ave. and a left at the intersection of Front St. and Monroe Ave. Memphis Law will be one block up on your left at 1 North Front Street. From St. Louis (I-55): Take I-55 South (approximately 275 miles). Continue on I-55 South/I-40 East towards Memphis. After crossing the DeSoto Bridge you may use exit 1 (Riverside Drive South toward Front St. N). Keep left at fork, follow signs for Front Street. Turn right onto Front Street. Memphis Law will be several blocks up on your right at 1 North Front Street. Parking: There is no onsite parking at Memphis Law. Our students and guests park in nearby garages (See Map Below) or at metered spots. ADA-accessible parking is located on the north end of the building. DOWNLOADABLE MAPS: City of Memphis Map Downtown Map Parking Map Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/29/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.