Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality & Resort Management Hospitality Culinary Sport & Leisure Apply Students Careers Research News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News & Events News Events Take Action Apply to the KWS Program Academic Advising Career Advising Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality & Resort Management News & Events Kemmons Wilson School In the News Dr. Rhema Fuller was featured in WalletHub's recent study about the Best Cities for College Basketball Fans. For More Information, please Click Here Dr. Brennan K. Berg offered comments, by request, on issues related to the Olympics and other major sport events to WalletHub. (February 2, 2022). For More Information, Please Click Here. We would like to announce that two of our faculty members (Dr. Rhema Fuller and Dr. Brennan K. Berg) have featured in WalletHub's recent piece about March Madness By The Numbers. For More Information, please click here Dr. Rhema Fuller and Dr. Brennan K. Berg Updates on KWCI Inmates take classes in UofM culinary program The Daily Memphian, subscription may be required - November 20, 2019 University of Memphis celebrates grand opening of new Culinary Institute Memphis Commercial Appeal - November 18, 2019 Culinary institute open house provides a taste of new program The Daily Helmsman - November 15, 2019 Kemmons Wilson Culinary Institute added to the University of Memphis’ hospitality program LocalMemphis.com - November 14, 2019 - see video below UofM will show off culinary school The Daily Memphian, subscription may be required - November 11, 2019 UofM expands culinary program by leasing Cordova building The Daily Helmsman - October 8, 2019 UofM expands culinary arts, food service program with L’Ecole Culinaire lease The Daily Memphian, subscription may be required - June 5, 2019 UofM throws curtain back on the new culinary arts program The Daily Memphian, subscription may be required - August 5, 2019 Grand Opening of the Kemmons Wilson Culinary Institute <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Cooking With Pouncer @ KWCI <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Sport & Leisure Management Program Highlights KWS SLM Student Coaches Memphis Inner City Rugby Girls Team Memphis Commercial Appeal - November 18, 2019 Sport & Leisure Management students assisted with setup and event logistics at ESPN College Gameday Distinguished Speakers Each week the distinguished speaker series invites local veterans from the hospitality industry to speak with Kemmons Wilson School rising stars. Each speaker will share an overview of historical background relating to the industry, elaborate on their professional work experience, and share their vision for the future. Please continue to monitor our KWS social media platforms for updates. View videos of past speakers > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/12/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.