Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Trademark and Licensing FAQ You are here Home About Faculty & Staff Resources Business Services Trademark Licensing Policy Trademark and Licensing FAQ Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library 1: What are the official school colors for Temple University? 2: What qualifies as a trademark, logo or symbol? 3: What are Temple’s trademarks? 4: Who must be licensed? 5: How can I obtain a licensing application? 6: How much does it cost to become licensed? 7: How long does it take to obtain approval from CLC? 8: Do I have to submit art for approval? 9: Why do I have to use a licensed vendor to print my student organization's t-shirts or promotional items? 10: Why do I need to be concerned with Temple’s trademarks when buying T-shirts, mugs, and other promotional items? 11: I have been using a non-licensed vendor for several years. Why should I stop? 12: What if I can’t find a licensed vendor offering an item I want to buy? 13: I want to have a graduation or wedding cake decorated with a Temple University logo. Do I need permission? 14: Why do the symbols ® and TM appear on products with the Temple name or logos? 15: How does Temple University ensure products are manufactured in an approved facility? Question #1 What are the official school colors for Temple University? The official school colors are Cherry Red, Yellow, Metallic Silver, Silver, Black and White. There are specific ink and thread color requirements for each that our licensees are aware of and have access to. Question #2 What qualifies as a trademark, logo or symbol? Any mark, name, logo, symbol, nickname, abbreviation, word, mascot, slogan, insignia uniform or landmark associated with Temple University and distinguished from any other university, team or organization qualifies as a trademark, logo or symbol. Question #3 What are Temple’s trademarks? A Temple trademark is any mark, logo, symbol, nickname, letter(s), word or derivative associated with Temple University and distinguished from those of other institutions or entities. Temple has both graphical trademarks and verbiage registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The graphical trademarks are those commonly called “logos” and include the words TEMPLE, Temple University Owls; and logos such as the stylized Temple “T,” the Owl Head and the Owl Eyes, among others. Also trademarked are the official Temple University seal, which is for executive use only and requires pre-approval for exceptions. Question #4 Who must be licensed? Any person, organization or business wishing to use Temple’s name, logos, marks, indicia or verbiage on any product, video, advertisements or for any other commercial purpose must have a license prior to production and distribution. This includes businesses that sell to university departments, campus organizations, and student organizations that use the product for fundraising and charity. Manufacturers of products bearing Temple marks are required to pay a royalty on the wholesale price of the product. Read more about the multiple forms of licenses available with Temple University. Temple University trademark use in traditional news media is treated as news and is not subject to licensing fees. Question #5 How can I obtain a licensing application? You can download an application for a license agreement directly from CLC. They also can be contacted at 770-956-0520 or emailed at applications@clc.com.. Also see our Becoming Licensed page for additional information. Question #6 How much does it cost to become licensed? Prospective licensees must pay an application fee ($100–$500 depending on the license) and an advance royalty payment between $250 and $500 when the agreement is signed. Temple receives a royalty fee based on the wholesale value of every product sold under the standard license, which is paid quarterly by the licensee . A yearly renewal fee also is required of those licensees who are renewed. Question #7 How long does it take to obtain approval from CLC? A decision on any license request depends on the nature and extent of the use being applied for; the number of trademarks involved; the number and diversity of products for which the trademark or trademarks will be used; and other possible factors, such as whether the university believes there is a need to seek legal advice on the application. In most cases, an answer will be provided in 30 days or fewer. Question #8 Do I have to submit art for approval? Yes, all art must always be submitted for approval. Student organizations or club sports, university departments, and intercollegiate athletics must submit artwork for approval, along with their licensed vendor information. Licensees submit artwork through Learfield’s platform, Trademarx. Question #9 Why do I have to use a licensed vendor to print my student organization’s t-shirts or promotional items? All products, even those ordered by our student organizations, which bear Temple's trademarks must be purchased only from Temple licensees in order to ensure consistency in the use of Temple's trademarks and to ensure compliance with a wide range of requirements associated with the manufacture and use of Temple's trademarks. Permission is granted to student organizations to use trademarks from a licensed vendor after the organization has received prior approval from trademark licensing. Visit the Student, Faculty & Staff Guide to Buying Temple Products section for additional information. Question #10 Why do I need to be concerned with Temple’s trademarks when buying T-shirts, mugs and other promotional items? In order to protect the Temple name and avoid liability issues, all items that feature Temple’s trademarks—from a pen decorated with the words “Go Owls” to a T-shirt that includes the name of a Temple student club—must be purchased from a company that is authorized to sell merchandise with the Temple name. Question #11 I have been using a non-licensed vendor for several years. Why should I stop? It is university policy that Temple-branded products be purchased from a licensed vendor. In addition, beside protecting the university from liability, a licensed vendor has access to Temple’s official logos, including intercollegiate athletics logos. Moreover, licensed vendors are more likely to be accustomed to working with Temple departments and student groups. Question #12 What if I can’t find a licensed vendor offering an item I want to buy? Business Services can help you find an appropriate vendor. Contact Veronica Aymer at vaymer@temple.edu or 215-204-0589 for assistance. Question #13 I want to have a graduation or wedding cake decorated with a Temple University logo. Do I need permission? Yes. You can request permission to have a cake decorated by emailing Veronica Aymer at vaymer@temple.edu with the name of the purchaser, the bakery and its address, and the recipient. Question #14 Why do the symbols ® and TM appear on products with the Temple name or logos? The ® and TM signify trademark ownership. The TM symbol indicates that the word, symbol or design it is placed next to is a trademark. The ® symbol indicates that the trademark is federally registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. These symbols signal the university’s ownership of its trademarks and assist the university in its trademark enforcement efforts. Question #15 How does Temple University ensure products are manufactured in an approved facility? Temple University adopted a code of conduct designed to ensure that products bearing the marks of the university are produced under healthy, safe and fair working conditions. As a means of implementing the code and of ensuring, to the degree possible, compliance with the workplace standards that are part of that code, the university has affiliated with the Worker Rights Consortium (WRC). This code summarizes the requirements of the WRC Code of Conduct, which clearly details monitoring, enforcement and inspection requirements. Contact Information Business Services Veronica Aymer, Director of Operations and Licensing 1700 N. Broad St., Suite 415 Philadelphia, PA 19122 215-204-0589 vaymer@temple.edu CLC Morgan Rogers, Senior Manager, Partnerships CLC 1075 Peachtree Street, Suite 3300 Atlanta, GA 30309 609-947-5240 morgan.rogers@clc.com Go back to AboutMore in Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.