Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Get Started Identify Funding Opportunities Write Proposal Submit proposal Conduct Your Research Commercialize Your Research $sLabel Home Research Lifecycle Write Proposal AAA Write Proposal Get Started Identify Opportunities Write Proposal Submit Proposal Conduct Research Commercialize Teams supporting proposal development. A multi-faceted approach to helping craft the best submissions. University support includes one-on-one grant writing support and specialized resources for any kind of investigation. Writing Center One-on-one writing assistance available for the entire University community, including faculty and staff. University Libraries A dozen libraries and special collections, available in-person and remotely. Work with an expert librarian, review research guides, and request materials. RESOURCES FOR MEDICAL RESEARCHERS The CTSI lists resources specific to medical research, including resources for de-identifying clinical data and access to the OneFlorida Research Consortium. Statistics and methods consulting The Statistical Supporting Unit (STATS-U) provides quantiative and qualitative research training, grant development, consultation on quantitative and qualitative research methods for faculty, staff, and graduate students at the University of Miami. The Biostatistics Collaboration and Consulting Core (BCCC) ensures that the appropriate use of statistical methodology is incorporated in research. redcap REDCap allows users to build and manage online surveys and databases quickly and securely is available for use to all University of Miami employees. Request a consultation by emailing Maria Jimenez-Rodriguez. Additional resources The Center for Computational Science (CCS) Advanced Computing team offers office hours to provide assistance with usage issues on the new Triton supercomputer and Pegasus cluster. The team is able to provide onsite assistance with queuing inquiries, software installation, and technical troubleshooting. The team is also able to help answer questions regarding grant proposals and can provide resource information about the Advanced Computing environment. Center for Computational Science (CCS) also offers data storage for non-PHI data to investigators for research purposes. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices