Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Education College of Education 206 Miller Hall 206-543-7834 Website Faculty Website edinfo@uw.edu The College of Education is dedicated to equity and excellence in education through the preparation and on-going renewal of education professionals, the promotion of social justice, the advancement of knowledge through research, and the connection of research to inform policy and improve practice. Pathways are offered to obtain a bachelor of arts (BA), master of education (MEd) or teaching (MIT), educational specialist (EdS), or a doctor of philosophy (PhD) or education (EdD). Undergraduate offerings: a BA in Early Childhood Family Studies, a BA in Education, Communities & Organizations, or a minor in Education, Learning and Society. Graduate studies areas: Curriculum & Instruction, Educational Leadership, Policy & Organizations, Educational Psychology, Special Education and Education, Equity & Society. Certifications: teaching (elementary, secondary, and special education), school administration (principals, program administrators, and superintendents), and school psychology. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Early Care and Education Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Care and Education (fee-based) (online) Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Care and Education: Teaching and Learning (fee-based) (online) (not admitting) Program of Study: Major: Early Childhood and Family Studies Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Childhood and Family Studies Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Childhood and Family Studies: Teaching and Learning Program of Study: Major: Education, Communities and Organizations Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Education, Communities and Organizations Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction) Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Language, Literacy, And Culture Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Mathematics Education Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Multicultural Education Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Science Education Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Social Studies Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Teaching And Curriculum Program of Study: Doctor Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies) Doctor Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Higher Education Doctor Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Organizational And Policy Studies Doctor Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Social And Cultural Foundations Program of Study: Doctor of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies: Leadership For Learning) Doctor of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Leadership For Learning (fee-based) Program of Study: Doctor Of Education (Special Education) Doctor Of Education (Special Education) Doctor Of Education (Special Education): Early Childhood Special Education Doctor Of Education (Special Education): High Incidence Program In Learning And Emotional/Behavioral Disabilities Doctor Of Education (Special Education): Severe Disabilities Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction) Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Language, Literacy, And Culture Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Mathematics Education Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Multicultural Education Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Science Education Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Social Studies Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Teaching And Curriculum Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Educ Leadershp And Policy St) Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Education Leadership And Policy Studies): Higher Education Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Education Leadership And Policy Studies): Organizational And Policy Studies Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Education Leadership And Policy Studies): Social And Cultural Foundations Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Learning Sciences And Human Development) Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Learning Sciences And Human Development) Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Measurement And Statistics) Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Measurement And Statistics) Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: School Psychology) Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: School Psychology) Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education) Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education) Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education): Applied Behavior Analysis Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education): Early Childhood Special Education Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education): High Incidence Program In Learning And Emotional/Behavioral Disabilities Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education): Severe Disabilities Program of Study: Educational Specialist (School Psychology) Educational Specialist (School Psychology) (fee-based) Program of Study: Graduate Certificate in Education, Equity, and Society Graduate Certificate in Education, Equity, and Society Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Mixed Methods Education Sciences Graduate Certificate In Mixed Methods Education Sciences Program of Study: Graduate Certificate in Psychometrics and Applied Analytics Graduate Certificate in Psychometrics and Applied Analytics Program of Study: Master In Teaching Master in Teaching (fee-based) Master In Teaching: Elementary Teacher Preparation Master In Teaching: Residency Teacher Preparation: Seattle Teacher Residency Program Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: English/Language Arts Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: Mathematics Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: Science Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: Social Studies Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: World Languages Program of Study: Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction) Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Language, Literacy, And Culture Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Mathematics Education Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Multicultural Education Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Science Education Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Science Education (fee-based) (Islandwood) Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Social Studies Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Teaching And Curriculum Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Teaching And Curriculum (fee-based) (Islandwood) Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction: Instructional Leadership) Program of Study: Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies) Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Danforth Principal Preparation Program (fee-based) Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Education Policy Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Higher Education Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Social And Cultural Foundations Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies: Education Policy Cohort) (fee-based) Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies: Intercollegiate Athletics Leadership) (fee-based) Program of Study: Master Of Education (Learning Sciences And Human Development) Master Of Education (Learning Sciences And Human Development) Program of Study: Master Of Education (Measurement And Statistics) Master Of Education (Measurement And Statistics) Program of Study: Master Of Education (Special Education) Master Of Education (Special Education): Applied Behavior Analysis Master Of Education (Special Education): Applied Behavior Analysis (fee-based) Master Of Education (Special Education): Early Childhood Master Of Education (Special Education): High Incidence Special Education Master Of Education (Special Education): Severe Special Education Master Of Education (Special Education): Special Education Undergraduate Programs College of Education 206 Miller Hall 206-221-3527 ecfsinfo@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Early Care and Education Program Overview The online Bachelor of Arts in Early Care and Education (ECE) program supports the belief that all young children, across diverse families and communities, should have equitable opportunities to learn and develop in a just and culturally-thriving society. This program seeks to transform inequitable systems that are barriers to this reality. Focusing on young children from birth through age 8, students will be prepared to advance this mission through interdisciplinary coursework that brings together equity, child development, teaching interactions, research, advocacy, leadership, practice-based application of learning, and community-based learning with community partners. The program addresses common barriers to higher education, including affordability, access, relevance, and effectiveness. A flexible online model, real-world opportunities for applying learning, and a student-centered teaching and advising model support student success. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Care and Education (fee-based) (online) Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Care and Education: Teaching and Learning (fee-based) (online) (not admitting) Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Care and Education (fee-based) (online) Admission Requirements Satisfactory progress toward completion of general education requirements Admission is capacity constrained, based on the following criteria. Completion of requirements does not guarantee admission. Two-to-three page personal statement reflecting an interest in the Early Care & Education major and a commitment to learning about the field Overall academic performance reflected in copies of unofficial transcripts Other evidence of interest in and commitment to the field (e.g., work experience, volunteer experience, or internships) Grades in any completed recommended courses and courses applied to major requirements Completion of at least 45 transferable credits Application deadlines are posted on the website. Applications may be considered after the deadline on a case-by-case basis, depending on program capacity. This is a limited admission program. Students admitted to the Early Care and Education online program are not allowed to transfer to another onsite or online major/degree program or complete a minor without reapplying to the UW through the normal admission review process. Students accepted into the major typically have a minimum cumulative 2.00 GPA and a minimum grade of 2.0 for any prior college coursework that may be applied toward the major. Information sessions are offered to learn more about the major and how to apply. For more information, refer to College of Education website or inquire at 206 Miller. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements Language and Reasoning Skills English Composition (5 credits) Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning (5 credits) Writing Courses (10 credits) Diversity Course (3 credits) Areas of Knowledge Visual, Literary & Performing Arts (VLPA) and Natural World (NW) (30 credits, with a minimum of 10 credits in each) Individuals & Societies (I&S) (30 credits) Maximum 15 credits in ECFS-prefix courses from the University Areas of Knowledge list may be counted toward the UW Areas of Knowledge requirements. Major Requirements 87 credits Early Care and Education Courses (87 credits): ECE 201, ECE 220, ECE 221, ECE 222, ECE 322, ECE 323, ECE 401, ECE 402, ECE 419, ECE 450, ECE 456; ECFS 301, ECFS 311, ECFS 312 (5), ECFS 400, ECFS 410, ECFS 411; EDPSY 305, EDPSY 406; EDSPE 304; NSG 432 Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses used to satisfy major requirements Minimum 64 credits applied to the major taken through the UW Seattle campus Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives: Upon successful completion of this degree, students will be able to: Understand Children and Families Apply neurological, behavioral, and sociocultural knowledge of developmental and family systems theories to create practical strategies that support the development of young children and families in multicultural contexts. Read, understand, and critically evaluate research that represents diverse family and community voices, while unpacking their identities within larger systems of power. Engage in family-centered practice that acknowledges the impact of biological, social, cultural, ethnic, socioeconomic, and linguistic factors on learning and development to meet the needs of students and families from diverse backgrounds. Engage in the process of impacting social policy and research by demonstrating a critical awareness of the assets and needs of families and communities. Gain pedagogical expertise Demonstrate knowledge and skills needed to apply, translate, and expand upon research designs and findings to solve practical issues and advance educational equity in early childhood settings. Describe factors affecting child development and recognize systemic inequities that create challenges for children and families. Identify, evaluate, and create learning environments. While doing so, exhibit intergenerational interactions that support children's social relationships, emotional and behavioral health, and emotional regulation Assess the form and function of children's behaviors that challenge educators and practice using data to develop behavior support plans that engage in ongoing formative assessment of children's progress. Enact and exhibit the use of evidence-based language and literacy practices. Recognize there are multiple ways of knowing, multilingual learners, multiple systems of mathematical/scientific thinking. Design and implement joint adult-child interactions in mathematical situations and scientific investigations, creating tasks that can enhance children’s thinking and justify how these are grounded in evidence-based practices that support young children’s mathematical, scientific, logical, and reasoning development. Become a professional in early childhood Design and implement learning opportunities grounded in evidence-based practices that support young children's language and literacy, math, science, art/multi-arts and creativity, logic and reasoning, and learning and development. Design learning environments that include accommodations and adaptations for young children with varying needs and abilities. Demonstrate ethical and socially responsible professional characteristics and practices anchored in a culturally sustaining professional identity. Discuss, apply, and teach the skills, routines, and daily habits of a resilient professional, supported through practices that are context-dependent and are culturally meaningful. Demonstrate learning about the selection and use of ongoing child observation and assessment to critically guide teaching and facilitate children's development and learning. Community-Based Learning Experience: A community-based learning experience emphasizes both learning and service to the community. Early childhood community-based learning experience opportunities address concerns and needs that are identified and articulated by the community of an early learning settings, such as a preschool or non-profit organization. Community-based learning experience combines these community-based service activities with structured preparation and reflection opportunities within the context of ECE courses. Honors Options Available: With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Department Scholarships: See department website for undergraduate scholarship information. Student Organizations/Associations: ECE Alumni & Student Leadership Council, Associated Students of the College of Education (ASCE) and International Educators of the College of Education (IECE). Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Care and Education: Teaching and Learning (fee-based) (online) (not admitting) Additional Information Formerly the College of Education offered two major options: (1) General Core and (2) Teaching and Learning. As of autumn quarter, 2020, however, those two options have been replaced by a single major. Please refer to the UW Seattle General Catalog Archive for information about the options. Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Early Childhood and Family Studies Program Overview The Early Childhood and Family Studies (ECFS) major provides the opportunity to study early childhood development, early learning, and family studies from a variety of perspectives across a range of disciplines. The degree will prepare you for careers in early learning, childcare, policy, parent and family support and education, and social/mental health services. It is also a pathway to graduate studies in education, child and family studies, and other areas. The ECFS major has developed two pathways for students to pursue in their degree program. The first pathway, ECFS Core, allows for the flexibility of integrating other areas of interest with the coursework in child development and family studies. The second pathway, the Teaching and Learning Option, is intended for students who wish to pursue a teaching position in preschools and other childhood settings or for those who plan to apply to a master's in teaching or other teacher certification programs. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Childhood and Family Studies Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Childhood and Family Studies: Teaching and Learning Admission Requirements Satisfactory progress toward completion of general education requirements Admission is capacity constrained, based on the following criteria. Completion of requirements does not guarantee admission. Minimum 2.0 grade in ECFS 200 Minimum 2.0 grade in English composition Two-to-three page personal statement reflecting an interest in the early childhood and family studies major and a commitment to learning about the field Overall academic performance reflected in copies of unofficial transcripts Other evidence of interest in and commitment to the field (e.g., work experience, volunteer experience, or internships) Grades in any completed recommended courses and courses applied to major requirements Applications due October 15 for winter quarter start and April 15 for autumn quarter start. For current UW students, notification is sent two weeks later; for transfer students, notification is sent after applicants are admitted to the UW. Transfer students who have not completed ECFS 200 prior to admission must complete this course after matriculation to UW. Applications may be considered after the dates above on a case-by-case basis, depending on program capacity. Students accepted typically have a minimum cumulative 2.50 GPA and a minimum grade of 2.0 for any prior college coursework that can be applied toward the major. Information sessions are offered to learn more about the major and how to apply. For more information, refer to College of Education website or inquire at 206 Miller. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Childhood and Family Studies Credential Overview The Bachelor of Arts with a major in Early Childhood and Family Studies (ECFS) on-campus Core pathway allows for the flexibility of integrating other areas of interest with coursework in child development and family studies. Students in the major represent interests in a wide range of professions that include early childhood education, child development, family & community support, policy and advocacy, health related professions, and the pursuit of research activities related to the science of early learning and policy development. Many of these interests benefit from a double major (for example, ECFS and Public Health, Psychology, Social Work, Economics, American Ethnic Studies, Speech & Hearing Sciences, Political Science, and Communication) or by combining the ECFS major with a minor such as Diversity, Nutrition, Global Health, or a foreign language. In addition, many students earn course credits for admission requirements to Medical and/or Graduate School. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements Language and Reasoning Skills English Composition (5 credits) Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning (5 credits) Writing Courses (10 credits) Diversity Course (3 credits) Areas of Knowledge Visual, Literary & Performing Arts (VLPA) (15 credits) Individuals & Societies (I&S) (15 credits) Natural World (NW) (15 credits) Areas of Knowledge (15 additional credits from any area) Maximum 15 credits in ECFS-prefix courses from the University Areas of Knowledge list may be counted toward the UW Areas of Knowledge requirements. Major Requirements 74-86 credits Early Childhood and Family Studies Core Courses (39 credits): Minimum 2.0 grade in ECFS 200 ECFS 303 (3), ECFS 311, ECFS 401, ECFS 402; EDPSY 302, EDPSY 406; EDUC 251; NSG 432 Additional requirements specified below Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses used to satisfy major requirements Minimum 40 credits applied to the major taken through the UW Additional Completion Requirements 35-47 credits one of ECFS 315, ECFS 320, or ECFS 419 (5 credits) one of EDSPE 304, EDSPE 414, EDSPE 427, or EDSPE 435 (3-5 credits) ECFS 403 Electives: see website for approved list of College of Education courses (25 credits) Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Childhood and Family Studies: Teaching and Learning Credential Overview The Bachelor of Arts with a major in Early Childhood and Family Studies, Teaching and Learning on-campus pathway is intended for students who are interested in working in early learning settings, or for those who plan to apply to a master's in teaching or other teaching certification programs. Current city, state, and national policy efforts are focused on equitable access to high quality early learning programs. Part of the measure of quality is having professionals prepared in content areas and pedagogical approaches to early childhood education. Courses include Language & Literacy, Mathematics, Science, Positive Behavioral Support, Engaging Interactions & Environments, and Individualized Instruction. You will also participate in service learning alongside teachers in preschool classrooms or childcare centers each quarter during your junior and senior years. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements Language and Reasoning Skills English Composition (5 credits) Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning (5 credits) Writing Courses (10 credits) Diversity Course (3 credits) Areas of Knowledge Visual, Literary & Performing Arts (VLPA) (15 credits) Individuals & Societies (I&S) (15 credits) Natural World (NW) (15 credits) Areas of Knowledge (15 additional credits from any area) Maximum 15 credits in ECFS-prefix courses from the University Areas of Knowledge list may be counted toward the UW Areas of Knowledge requirements. Major Requirements 74-86 credits Early Childhood and Family Studies Core Courses (39 credits): Minimum 2.0 grade in ECFS 200 ECFS 303 (3), ECFS 311, ECFS 401, ECFS 402; EDPSY 302, EDPSY 406; EDUC 251; NSG 432 Additional requirements specified below Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses used to satisfy major requirements Minimum 40 credits applied to the major taken through the UW Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits (45-47 credits): one of ECFS 315, ECFS 320, or ECFS 419 (5 credits) one of EDSPE 304, EDSPE 414, EDSPE 427, or EDSPE 435 (3-5 credits) ECFS 301, ECFS 312 (3), ECFS 321, ECFS 400, ECFS 410, ECFS 411, ECFS 454, ECFS 455, ECFS 456; EDUC 170 (37 credits) Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives: The early childhood and family studies major immerses students in the study of child and family development and education. Students learn about child development, early learning, and family studies from a variety of perspectives. They receive a strong grounding in reading and understanding the theory and evidence that provide the foundation for the field and drive current research and policy efforts. Expected Outcomes: Students apply their knowledge and skill as they work alongside community-based teachers, community leaders, and care providers. The degree provides preparation for a wide variety of careers in early learning, childcare, parent and family support and education, child and community advocacy and organization, and social and mental health services. It also serves as a pathway for graduate studies in education, child and family studies, educational policy, special education, and other areas. Service Learning and Research: Two sequences of field-based experiences provide students with real life-learning opportunities in community-based early childhood or family support/education settings. Students participate in both an introductory seminar experience as well as a sequenced field experience during their first year in service learning. In the Teaching and Learning option, students participate in a three-quarter senior service learning, research, and senior project that provides advanced opportunities to integrate theory and practice in community-based early childhood or family support programs, and/or research settings. The seminar ties together research and practice, demonstrating how research informs evidence-based decision-making in programs and services. Students also receive guidance in career options and current events in the field, tying in major experiences with their own developmental and career goals. Learning objectives are outlined in class. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Department Scholarships: See department website for undergraduate scholarship information. Student Organizations/Associations: Associated Students of the College of Education (ASCE) and International Educators of the College of Education (IECE). Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Education, Communities and Organizations Program Overview The Bachelor of Arts in Education, Communities and Organizations major provides students with a solid foundation in learning theory, human development, equity studies, organizational theory and community-based research and practice. Through elective courses, students will build on this knowledge to explore diverse areas of study. All students complete a community-based capstone internship. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Education, Communities and Organizations Admission Requirements Admission is capacity constrained. Completion of requirements does not guarantee admission. Satisfactory progress toward completion of general education requirements; minimum 45 credits Minimum 2.50 cumulative GPA Minimum 2.5 grade in English composition course Minimum 2.0 grade in EDUC 280 Submission of a personal statement indicating interest in the major Application deadlines: April 15 for autumn admission; October 15 for winter admission. Depending on program capacity, applications may be considered after the deadlines. Information sessions are offered to learn more about the major and how to apply. Refer to College of Education website for more information. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Education, Communities and Organizations Credential Overview The Bachelor of Arts in Education, Communities and Organizations major provides students with a solid foundation in learning theory, human development, equity studies, organizational theory and community-based research and practice. Through elective courses, students will build on this knowledge to explore diverse areas of study. All students complete a community-based capstone internship. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements Language and Reasoning Skills English Composition (5 credits) Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning (5 credits) Writing Courses (10 credits) Diversity Course (3 credits) Areas of Knowledge Visual, Literary & Performing Arts (VLPA) (15 credits) Individuals & Societies (I&S) (15 credits) Natural World (NW) (15 credits) Areas of Knowledge (15 additional credits from any area) Major Requirements 68 credits Minimum 2.0 grade in EDUC 280 (3 credits) Core Courses (25 credits): EDUC 251, EDUC 370; one from EDPSY 302, EDPSY 380, EDPSY 404 (depending on life-span emphasis – child, adolescent, or adult development); EDUC 472, EDUC 473 Concentration Electives (25 credits): See adviser for current list Major Capstone Courses (15 credits minimum): EDUC 481, EDUC 482, EDUC 483 Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses used to satisfy major requirements Minimum 45 credits applied to the major taken through the UW Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives: The student will be able to: Support learning of others across a diverse society Understand that development and learning happen in context and how to enter and engage with different contexts Understand the structure, assets, and values of belonging and contributing to institutions, organizations, and communities Represent themselves, their stories, and their ideas orally, in writing, and in action Continuously self-reflect on their own positionality to engage respectfully with people who have the same and different identities, beliefs, experiences, and ideas Seek out learning and constructive feedback with an open mind Commit to the wholeness and wellness of all, especially those who have historically and continue to be targeted and marginalized Service Learning and Research: Community engagement is an integral part of the student experience. Students complete three hours per week of service learning with a community-based organization or school when they take EDUC 280 Introduction to Education, Communities, and Organizations. In their final year of the program all students complete a three-quarter internship working with a community-based organization or school. Students collaborate with their site supervisor and mentor to develop an internship project that both supports the work of the partner organization and furthers the student's learning objectives. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Department Scholarships: See department website for undergraduate scholarship information. Student Organizations/Associations: Associated Students of the College of Education (ASCE) and International Educators of the College of Education (IECE). Back to Top Graduate Programs College of Education Program of Study: Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Language, Literacy, And Culture Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Mathematics Education Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Multicultural Education Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Science Education Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Social Studies Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Teaching And Curriculum Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Language, Literacy, And Culture Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Mathematics Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Multicultural Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Science Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Social Studies Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Teaching And Curriculum Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Doctor Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Higher Education Doctor Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Organizational And Policy Studies Doctor Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Social And Cultural Foundations Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Higher Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Organizational And Policy Studies Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Social And Cultural Foundations Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Doctor of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies: Leadership For Learning) This program of study leads to the following credential: Doctor of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Leadership For Learning (fee-based) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Leadership For Learning (fee-based) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Doctor Of Education (Special Education) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Education (Special Education) Doctor Of Education (Special Education): Early Childhood Special Education Doctor Of Education (Special Education): High Incidence Program In Learning And Emotional/Behavioral Disabilities Doctor Of Education (Special Education): Severe Disabilities Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Education (Special Education) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Education (Special Education): Early Childhood Special Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Education (Special Education): High Incidence Program In Learning And Emotional/Behavioral Disabilities Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Education (Special Education): Severe Disabilities Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Language, Literacy, And Culture Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Mathematics Education Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Multicultural Education Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Science Education Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Social Studies Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Teaching And Curriculum Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Language, Literacy, And Culture Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Mathematics Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Multicultural Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Science Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Social Studies Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Curriculum And Instruction): Teaching And Curriculum Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Educ Leadershp And Policy St) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Education Leadership And Policy Studies): Higher Education Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Education Leadership And Policy Studies): Organizational And Policy Studies Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Education Leadership And Policy Studies): Social And Cultural Foundations Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Education Leadership And Policy Studies): Higher Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Education Leadership And Policy Studies): Organizational And Policy Studies Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Education Leadership And Policy Studies): Social And Cultural Foundations Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Learning Sciences And Human Development) This program of study leads to the following credential: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Learning Sciences And Human Development) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Learning Sciences And Human Development) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Measurement And Statistics) This program of study leads to the following credential: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Measurement And Statistics) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Measurement And Statistics) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: School Psychology) This program of study leads to the following credential: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: School Psychology) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: School Psychology) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education) Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education): Applied Behavior Analysis Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education): Early Childhood Special Education Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education): High Incidence Program In Learning And Emotional/Behavioral Disabilities Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education): Severe Disabilities Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education): Applied Behavior Analysis Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education): Early Childhood Special Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education): High Incidence Program In Learning And Emotional/Behavioral Disabilities Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Education: Special Education): Severe Disabilities Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Educational Specialist (School Psychology) This program of study leads to the following credential: Educational Specialist (School Psychology) (fee-based) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Educational Specialist (School Psychology) (fee-based) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate in Education, Equity, and Society This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate in Education, Equity, and Society Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate in Education, Equity, and Society Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Mixed Methods Education Sciences This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate In Mixed Methods Education Sciences Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate In Mixed Methods Education Sciences Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate in Psychometrics and Applied Analytics Program Overview This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate in Psychometrics and Applied Analytics Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate in Psychometrics and Applied Analytics Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master In Teaching This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master in Teaching (fee-based) Master In Teaching: Elementary Teacher Preparation Master In Teaching: Residency Teacher Preparation: Seattle Teacher Residency Program Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: English/Language Arts Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: Mathematics Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: Science Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: Social Studies Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: World Languages Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master in Teaching (fee-based) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master In Teaching: Elementary Teacher Preparation Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master In Teaching: Residency Teacher Preparation: Seattle Teacher Residency Program Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: English/Language Arts Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: Mathematics Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: Science Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: Social Studies Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master In Teaching: Secondary Teacher Preparation: World Languages Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Language, Literacy, And Culture Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Mathematics Education Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Multicultural Education Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Science Education Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Science Education (fee-based) (Islandwood) Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Social Studies Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Teaching And Curriculum Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Teaching And Curriculum (fee-based) (Islandwood) Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction: Instructional Leadership) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Language, Literacy, And Culture Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Mathematics Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Multicultural Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Science Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Science Education (fee-based) (Islandwood) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Social Studies Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Teaching And Curriculum Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction): Teaching And Curriculum (fee-based) (Islandwood) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Curriculum And Instruction: Instructional Leadership) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Danforth Principal Preparation Program (fee-based) Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Education Policy Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Higher Education Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Social And Cultural Foundations Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies: Education Policy Cohort) (fee-based) Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies: Intercollegiate Athletics Leadership) (fee-based) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Danforth Principal Preparation Program (fee-based) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Education Policy Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Higher Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies): Social And Cultural Foundations Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies: Education Policy Cohort) (fee-based) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Educational Leadership And Policy Studies: Intercollegiate Athletics Leadership) (fee-based) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Education (Learning Sciences And Human Development) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Education (Learning Sciences And Human Development) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Education (Learning Sciences And Human Development) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Education (Measurement And Statistics) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Education (Measurement And Statistics) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Education (Measurement And Statistics) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Education (Special Education) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Education (Special Education): Applied Behavior Analysis Master Of Education (Special Education): Applied Behavior Analysis (fee-based) Master Of Education (Special Education): Early Childhood Master Of Education (Special Education): High Incidence Special Education Master Of Education (Special Education): Severe Special Education Master Of Education (Special Education): Special Education Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Education (Special Education): Applied Behavior Analysis Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Special Education): Applied Behavior Analysis (fee-based) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Special Education): Early Childhood Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Special Education): High Incidence Special Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Special Education): Severe Special Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Education (Special Education): Special Education Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA