Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Pause Background Video Play Background Video Research at Rutgers The Backbone of a Great State University Breakthroughs in knowledge—technology, the humanities, or health care—are the essence of a top research university. At Rutgers, we have a strong track record of discovery—from finding a cure for tuberculosis to developing eco-friendly building materials, just to name a few. $907.9 Million Research grants and sponsored programs 2021 data Top 100 World’s most innovative universities Reuters 1,000+ Active issued worldwide patents 2021 data Visit Rutgers Research Fueling America’s R&D Engine The results of Rutgers research impact our quality of life, promote prosperity, and enrich humanity in so many ways—from detecting nuclear threats and crime to creating the world’s biggest network of ocean data to exploring the central nervous system. Where Discovery Happens The Office for Research The Office for Research partners with researchers to provide a pipeline of services and resources to foster innovation that transforms lives, improves communities, and advances society. Visit Rutgers Research Rutgers University–New Brunswick Rutgers University–New Brunswick, in conjunction with Rutgers Biomedical Health Sciences, is a member of the Association of American Universities and the Big Ten Academic Alliance—networks that cultivate knowledge sharing and access to research resources. Learn More about research at Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers University–Newark In and of the city of Newark, Rutgers engages civic-minded changemakers and fosters experiential learning. The university is rated a Doctoral University: High Research Activity institution by the Carnegie Classification of Higher Education. Learn more about research at Rutgers–Newark Rutgers University–Camden With a classification as a Doctoral University: High Research Activity by Carnegie, Rutgers University–Camden fosters a dynamic faculty and student research environment with support in finding funding and collaboration. Learn about research at Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences Rutgers people across scores of disciplines engage in research that focuses on human health. It’s one of the advantages of a large research university: because we study, teach, and practice all aspects of health care, the latest advances and discoveries inform our treatment of patients. Learn more about health research at Rutgers A Reputation for Excellence Starting from an early emphasis on agriculture and the mechanical arts related to the university’s land-grant mission, Rutgers research has expanded into a leading hub for respected researchers tackling society's largest challenges. The achievements of our award-winning faculty drive Rutgers’ world-class reputation. They teach, discover, provide health care, innovate, mentor, and share their knowledge. Leaders in their fields, their everyday endeavors yield brilliant outcomes. Learn More about Faculty Excellence Student Research at Rutgers From deep in the laboratory to out in the field, students are conducting foundational and rewarding research. Aresty Research Center at Rutgers–New Brunswick Undergraduate Research at Rutgers–Newark Student Research at Rutgers–Camden Fostering Inquiry and Innovation Empowering Researchers Support for Rutgers' vibrant research community is a priority throughout all stages of the research life cycle—from finding funding to commercialization. Contact the Office for Research Core Facilities Researchers, students, and partners have access to state-of-the-art scientific instruments, tools, and laboratories. Discover Core Facilities Collaborate with Rutgers Connect with faculty across Rutgers’ research network to access the full capabilities of our experts, facilities, and reputation in STEM fields. Search the database of research experts Research Commercialization Staffed by scientists and IP experts with industry experience, the Innovation Ventures team is dedicated to transforming research at Rutgers into products, services, and partnerships for the public good. Visit Innovation Ventures Research Centers and Institutes In clinics and centers, in labs and libraries, in the field and across the globe, our faculty and students create knowledge, advance economic progress, improve lives, and enrich our humanity. Take a look at some of the Rutgers centers and institutes making an impact. View a Full Listing of Centers and Institutes Rutgers Research Fights COVID-19 Rutgers Research Fights COVID-19 Shobha Swaminathan Associate professor at New Jersey Medical School Research Shobha Swaminathan is an infectious disease expert and the research site leader for NIH-funded clinical trials at New Jersey Medical School (NJMS). Swaminathan is also the principal investigator for the Division of AIDS-funded clinical research site, where she successfully implemented multiple NIH-funded HIV treatment and prevention studies. Under her direction, NJMS has been one of the leading sites for the enrollment of women and minority populations. Impact As the coronavirus pandemic gripped the United States, her team pivoted to conducting clinical trials for COVID-19. Among those studies was a COVID-19 vaccine trial. As site principal investigator, Swaminathan led her team on the phase 3 Moderna vaccine trial, contributing to the science that ultimately received emergency use authorization approval in December 2020. “Rutgers is a state institution, and it reaches everyone from north to south,” she said of Rutgers being one of a select group of sites to conduct the research. “It really shows Rutgers’ relevance as a key scientific research institution not only in the state, but in the country.” Passion “I find taking care of my patients in the clinic and participants in clinical trials to be the most satisfying aspect of my job,” Swaminathan said, adding that she is actively engaged as a primary caregiver for the community in Newark, particularly the HIV-positive population. “Additionally, clinical trials provide opportunities for participants to access cutting-edge science that will hopefully have a positive impact not only on their lives but potentially impact the whole world. I know my work means something for my patients. Being able to give people hope who have none. It’s important,” she said. “Hope is everything we have, right?” Research News Research Highlights Disparities Remain in End-of-Life Care in New Jersey Research Highlights History Professor Wins Iran’s Most Prestigious Literary Award Research & Innovation New Research Sheds Light on Causes of Reproductive Disorders, Infertility, Miscarriage, Birth Defects More Research News Visit Rutgers Research Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster