By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate International Stories More from this Section Syracuse Program in Partnership with Wells College: Information for International Students First-Year Checklist Transfer Checklist FAQ Support Services Enrollment Options Requirements International Student Stories More than 4,000 international students attend Syracuse University. Here are some of their stories: Michelle Osiyah Kenya School of Information Studies (iSchool) Information Management and Technology major Class of 2023 “Everyone from resident advisors to faculty makes a student feel welcomed here. It’s amazing how they become more like your immediate family.” Read more of Michelle’s journey applying to Syracuse Rehan Balsara India Whitman School of Management Finance and Accounting major Class of 2023 “I chose Syracuse primarily because of the Whitman School’s well-recognized and academically outstanding undergraduate programs. I was also drawn to Whitman’s unique IMPRESS Program , where Whitman students benefit from experiential learning and obtain professional certifications.” Spencer Watt Canada College of Arts and Sciences Forensic science and psychology major Class of 2022 “As someone who was indecisive about what I wanted my life to look like, Syracuse provided the ideal academic path for me. I have been able to explore subjects I have never expected myself to be interested in and Syracuse encouraged it. The liberal arts structure forced me to try something new and lead me to what I’m studying now.” Jiawen Cao China Newhouse School of Public Communications Graphic Design major Class of 2021 “Syracuse fit all the criteria that I wanted for a university. I knew I wanted to go to a larger university, that still felt small; be in a city, but still have a traditional campus experience. Plus, it has a great reputation.” Konstantinos Chrysoulas Greece College of Engineering and Computer Science Computer science major Class of 2022 “The campus facilities had me in awe. From the numerous fitness facilities to the academic buildings, as well as the exceptional reputation of the professors and the overall staff, Syracuse definitely won me over.” Read more of Konstantinos’ experience studying in the U.S. Related Pages Connections Program The Connections Program is a mentoring program offered by the Center for International Services for all new international students. Living in Syracuse Syracuse, New York offers a wide variety of events and activities to its residents and visitors. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy