Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Make Your Commitment Xavier Home Make Your Commitment Make Your Commitment We're excited you're taking the next step toward joining the Xavier family - a group of 4,600 undergraduate students and 72,000 alumni. It's a community of values, achievement and care of the whole person. Of course, it wouldn't be the same without you. Incoming students who wish to cancel their enrollment at Xavier, excluding those admitted to the College of Nursing, may request a refund of their deposit in writing or via email by May 1. All deposits submitted for students admitted to the College of Nursing are non-refundable. Please complete the information below to pay your tuition deposit and/or housing deposit for Fall 2022. Deposit Information Entry Term Select one Fall 2022 Student Type Select one Freshman/International Freshman Transfer/International Transfer English as a Second Language Deposit Type Select one Tuition Tuition and Housing If you are planning on commuting, select Tuition. If you will be living on campus (required for traditional-age freshmen and sophomores who live more than 35 miles from campus), select Tuition and Housing. Student Information Student's First/Given Name Student's Last/Family Name Student's Birth Date Student's Phone Number Xavier accepts electronic checks and the following credit cards: American Express, Discover, MasterCard and Visa. All credit card transactions will be assessed a convenience fee. There are no additional fees for paying by electronic check. To pay by a physical check download the mail-in deposit form. Continue If you have any questions regarding your tuition/housing payment, feel free to contact the office of admission at 877-XUADMIT (982-3648) or 513-745-3301. Email us at xuadmit@xavier.edu. Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram