Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Philosophy Undergraduate Graduate People Research News & Events Resources Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Program Resources About M.A. Program Requirements Ph.D. Program Requirements Current Graduate Students Graduate Courses Erasmus Mundus Program Philosophical Horizons Financial aid/awards Bornblum Travel Award Study Abroad Placement How to Apply Other Resources Take Action Apply to the Graduate Program Online B.A. 3+3 Accelerated BA/JD Program Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Support the Department Follow Us Online Facebook Home Philosophy Graduate Graduate Program Program Overview The Philosophy Department inaugurated a PhD program in the Fall of 1990, in preparation for the increased demand for university and college professors. The PhD program complements an active MA program, which has been in place since 1968, and an expanding undergraduate program. The program is designed to address a felt need in the profession of philosophy for scholars able to transcend the confines of a specialty. In their research, members of the department address major issues of both analytic and Continental philosophy as well as scholarly issues concerning major figures of the history of philosophy. This philosophical pluralism is coupled with a unique spirit of cooperation throughout the faculty. The course of study of graduate students is designed to take advantage of this breadth and attitude of cooperation. Each student receives a thorough grounding in the history of philosophy and familiarity with both the contemporary analytic and Continental traditions, in order to achieve an understanding of the place of their areas of research within the several basic areas and methodologies of philosophy and the historical tradition on which they are based. Specializations are available, supported in each case by several members of the department, in most areas of analytic and Continental philosophy and the history of philosophy, as well as on topics and issues that cross traditional boundaries. Seminars are small, and students receive individual attention, often from several members of the department with overlapping research interests. The atmosphere in the department is congenial. There are many informal opportunities for ongoing philosophical discussion among students and faculty away from the classroom. PhD Program Structure The PhD program is structured to provide a broad background in the history of philosophy and in the different contemporary methodologies, and then to proceed to the specialization requisite for the dissertation. It is designed to avoid a premature and overly narrow specialization and to ensure a competence in the basic fields of philosophy as a foundation for subsequent concentration in one or more areas of continental philosophy, analytic philosophy or the history of philosophy. Graduates will thus be prepared to teach not only their specialty, but also a wide variety of basic courses, and will be prepared to function effectively as teachers and colleagues even in departments in which the main focus is in a tradition or methodology different from their own concentration. They will also be able to apply their expertise to areas of endeavor outside academia, such as law, publishing, medicine, computer design, theology, and secondary education. Students whose objective is a PhD in philosophy at the University of Memphis and who satisfy the admission requirements should apply directly to the PhD program. Applicants not admitted to the PhD program because of lack of space will be considered for the MA program if they indicate their desire to be so considered by marking MA/PhD on their application and letter of recommendation forms. (Students in the MA program may apply for admission to the PhD program). Explore our career resources > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/15/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.