Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Executive MBA Executive MBA Curriculum Home » Programs » MBA » Executive MBA » Curriculum » Executive MBA Curriculum Menu Executive MBA Executive MBA Curriculum Accounting Finance IT Management Organizational Behavior Operations Management Law and Ethics Strategy & Innovation Marketing Admissions Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQs Global Business Management of Technology What is an Executive MBA? Executive MBA Events Meet Us Gain the critical business and leadership skills required for success in a digital-first, tech-driven world through Georgia Tech Scheller’s Executive MBA program. Scheller's Executive MBA program allows you to tailor your experience by focusing on one of two specializations — Global Business (GB) or Management of Technology (MoT). Through courses, capstone projects, international travel, and more, you’ll cultivate the leadership acumen, tech savvy, and analytical skills to lead. In considering the needs of our students in a changing business world, we’ve made improvements and enhancements to the curriculum and structure of the Executive MBA program. We are offering for the first time elective opportunities for our students. Students can take an elective course during the summer and final fall semesters. We have increased our focus on leadership and strategy within the curriculum. Sample Elective Offerings Analysis of Emerging Technologies Identify the implications of emerging technologies via a “timeless” and a “timely” component. Cybersecurity and Privacy for Executives Address cybersecurity management issues, focusing on the non-code aspects of cybersecurity and on current issues of greatest concern to middle and senior management. Global Product and Brand Management Examine diverse issues involved in the management of a product portfolio and explore applications across a range of industries including consumer products, technology products, and services. New Product Strategies A systematic overview of the management challenges that arise during the product development process. Technology Strategy Analyze the economic and strategic factors that guide firms' decisions regarding the generation, commercialization, protection, and adoption of technological innovations. Core Courses Courses below are required for both the Global Business and Management of Technology specializations. Cross-Cultural Communications Business and leadership skills, including teamwork, communications, conflict resolution, and negotiations. Leadership and Organizational Behavior Leadership and behavioral concepts to enhance individual, team, and organizational performance. Financial and Managerial Accounting Measuring and reporting the financial performance of the firm, and concepts in cost and managerial accounting. Managing Marketing Marketing of products and services in international and technological environments. Data Analysis for Business Tools, concepts and statistical methods to analyze corporate and economic data. Financial Management An introduction to finance. Topics include time value of money, capital budgeting, risk and return, capital structure, dividend policy, and working capital management. Global Economics Basic economic concepts and the ability to apply these concepts to business decision-making and public policy analysis. Manufacturing and Service Management Conceptual and analytical skills to manage manufacturing, supply chain and service operations. Business Regulations Implications of domestic and foreign legal environments for managerial decision-making. Strategy Integrating knowledge of the functional areas of a business to understand how firms gain and sustain a competitive advantage in a globally competitive environment. Information Systems Tools and techniques to manage the information technology infrastructure that supports a global organization. Ethical Decision Making Focuses on understanding and applying ethical decision-making practices in business. International Business Negotiations Examines the complex nature of international negotiations in business and how relationships with domestic and foreign governments impact the decision-making process. Business Strategies for Sustainability Understanding current environmental challenges' effect on business and strategies of eco-efficiency, product stewardship, green marketing and sustainable development. Management of Technology (MoT) Courses In addition to the EMBA core courses, MoT students must complete the following courses: Processes of Technological Innovation Addresses the processes involved in technological innovation, focusing on models, sources, flows, and the protection of innovation and intellectual property. Change Management Explores methods to adapt, evolve, or create change for strategic competitive advantage and how organizations structure themselves in order to increase effectiveness in response to competitive demands. AI & Machine Learning for Business Examines key emerging technologies in B2B environments, their development patterns, and the associated impact on industries, industrial competitiveness, and society. Venture Financing Teaches various methods for raising capital to fund the development and launch of new technology products and services. Analysis of Global Environments (International Residency) Explores global business issues and strategies through an international residency. Strategy Execution This course introduces methods to adapt, evolve, or create change in the way organizations structure themselves to increase effectiveness in responding to competitive demands. MoT Project I Participants develop and present a proposal for a new technology-based product or service. MoT Project II Participants execute the concept developed in MOT Project I, including marketing and financial analysis. Global Business (GB) Courses In addition to the EMBA core courses, GB students must complete the following courses: International Finance Focuses on foreign exchange transactions, management of exposure, international bond and equity markets, and international banking. Competing Globally Examines the position of the U.S. in world markets, various types of international business transactions, and the impact of global economic, political, legal, and cultural forces.> Managing the Global Workforce Examines managing a global workforce through effective employee recruitment, compensation, performance appraisals, and HR processes and systems. Global Supply Chain and E-Commerce Focuses on the process and technology infrastructure necessary to support international logistics, procurement, and delivery, as well as reaching new customers through electronic channels. Analysis of Global Environments (International Residency) Explores global business issues and strategies through an international residency. Global Strategy Project I Participants are given a global strategy-related problem faced by a company and collect information regarding the problem. Global Strategy Project II Participants define the goals that they want to achieve through a solution. Optional: Lean Six Sigma Green Belt & Black Belt Certification Executive MBA students have the option of taking a Lean Six Sigma (LSS) Green Belt and Black Belt elective and getting certified during the program. The Lean Six Sigma class accommodates the EMBA schedule and leverages statistics class content. Student participation is optional. Green Belt and Black Belt certificate requirements must be completed prior to graduation. Global Business Specialization Learn about global workforce management, global supply chain, international finance, and product strategies for global markets. Learn more Management of Technology Specialization Learn to forecast trends, embrace emerging technologies, and manage innovation and organizational change. Learn more Request More Information Thank you for requesting more information about our programs. In the meantime, access our online brochures filled with helpful information about our MBA programs. Full-time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Next Steps Request More Info Attend an Info Session Apply Now 2022–2023 EMBA Calendar Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures