Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety Contact Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close In Memory Home BC Police Department About In Memory About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Thomas Devlin, Police Officer Boston College Police Department End of Watch: Friday, April 6, 2007 "The wicked flee when no man pursueth: but the righteous are as bold as a lion." —Proverbs 28:1 Officer Thomas Devlin succumbed to injuries sustained in September 1988 when he was exposed to military-grade teargas that had been set off in the ventilation system of a college residence hall. Officer Devlin was one of the first officers to respond to the scene and immediately assisted with evacuating residents from the hall. The exposure to the chemicals caused Officer Devlin to suffer burns to over 65% of his lungs. He was hospitalized several times with viral infections as a result of the injuries. The person who set off the tear gas was never identified. His lungs suffered further damage in May 1999 when he responded to a fire in another residence hall and was exposed to the smoke while evacuating residents. He was hospitalized again after that incident and was forced to medically retire in 2004. Officer Devlin had served with the Boston College Police Department for 21 years. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Police Department Maloney Hall 617-552-4444 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College