Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad Parents Study abroad will likely be one of the most rewarding and challenging events of your student's college experience, and, as a parent or family member, we appreciate that you want to know as much as possible about study abroad. The Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad is here to support your student while they are abroad and during every step of the process, from initial preparations to returning from overseas. We invite you to explore our website, our Parent Guide, and our FAQ section to learn more about the program types offered at Clemson University, the financial and academic aspects of studying abroad, and our risk management processes. Please feel free to contact our office if you have additional questions. Health & Safety Students' safety and security are the highest priority for Clemson University. The Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad has policies and procedures in place to maximize the safety and well-being of study abroad participants. Details are outlined on our Healthy and Safe Abroad page. Even prior to departure, your student will be able to take advantage of various health and safety resources to prepare for study abroad. For example, all study abroad students must attend a Pre-Departure Orientation and they will also have access to the Pre-Departure Handbook in their online application at any time. This handbook provides them with comprehensive information and advice to help prepare them for their time abroad including visa information, packing suggestions, tips on health and safety, financial information, etc. Benefits of study abroad Please know there are many benefits of study abroad, which are identified below. While complementing the academic experience on campus, study abroad will also provide your student the opportunity to thrive like never before and be more competitive in the job market. We are excited to help your student make study abroad a reality! Home How to Apply Preparing for Your Experience Healthy and Safe Abroad Financing Your Experience While Abroad Covid-19 Updates FAQs Contact Us Login Information For Incoming Exchange Students Faculty and Staff Parents Returning to Clemson Related Links Passport Information US Department of State Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Office of Global Engagement Office of Global Engagement International Students English Language Programs Global Learning Institute for Faculty Global Partnerships Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram