Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Academics People Campus About News + Events Apply Now Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Specializations Student Work People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now Portfolio Submission Portfolio Requirements Art Design Production Programming Financial Information SMU Financial Aid Guildhall Preparation Art Design Production Programming Specializations Art Creation Level Design Production Programming Student Work Independent Projects Team Game Projects Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Admissions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Academics Specializations Student Work People People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us News + Events Apply Now People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students Apply Now Open Staff Positions Thank you for your interest in a staff position at SMU Guildhall. If positions are available, they will be posted below. We encourage you to check this page periodically for updates. If you are interested in other SMU staff opportunities outside of the Guildhall, please visit SMU Human Resources Staff Careers. Open Positions Associate Director of Career Services Position #: PRO000000166 Institution: SMU Guildhall Location: SMU/Dallas Posted: February 15, 2022 Priority Consideration Date: March 1, 2022 Deadline date: March 15, 2022 Salary Range: Salary commensurate with qualifications and experience. About SMU SMU’s more than 12,000 diverse, high-achieving students come from all 50 states and 90 countries to take advantage of the University’s small classes, hands-on research opportunities, leadership development, community service, international study and innovative programs. The University offers a strong foundation in the humanities and sciences and undergraduate, graduate and professional degree programs through eight schools. Now in its second century of achievement, SMU is increasingly recognized for the ways it supports students, faculty and alumni as they become ethical leaders in their professions and communities. On the most beautiful college campus in the country, SMU Mustangs are energized by unbridled opportunities – from teaching, learning and research to creativity, performance and athletic endeavor. About the Department: The Guildhall was established in 2003 as a premier graduate-level video game development education program in the United States. It was created at the request of the game development industry to train its future leaders. With master’s degree and professional certificate programs in game development, we turn a passion for gaming into a viable and fulfilling career. Job Summary: The Associate Director will be responsible for managing SMU Guildhall career services, game industry relations, alumni relations and engagement opportunities, administering and expanding industry partnerships, and supporting marketing efforts along with content creation. Essential Functions: The Associate Director will develop expertise across all sectors of the game development job market to support successful career outcomes for students and graduates. Markets Guildhall, students and graduates to local, regional, national and international employers to develop employment opportunities. Develops and implements an industry outreach plan; oversees all communications with employers regarding their recruitment needs. Coaches students, and alumni, in career planning, personal branding, job search, school-to-work transition and career management. Hosts guest lectures by visiting professionals in order to illuminate industry dynamics. Directs annual career fair connecting 100+ students and alumni to international companies. Coordinates interview schedules with students and participating companies. Oversees the program’s presence on university career portal, Handshake and participates in campus-wide career services meetings. Supports Professional Development coursework with workshops, feedback and resources. Creates and delivers content on best practices for career development. Administers multiple mock interviews for all graduating students. Coordinates industry feedback on student portfolios (typically 3-4 per student). Coordinates alumni reunion events (e.g. reception at Game Developers Conference). Creates mentorship opportunities with current students. Guides counseling sessions regarding career prospects and negotiation strategies. Shares opportunities for professional advancement (e.g. job postings, events, best practices, etc.). Tracks and synthesizes alumni data into compelling narratives that drive strategy, support marketing efforts, etc. Conducts cold outreach to thought-leaders and hiring managers to increase Guildhall’s network. Spearheads and executes high-profile guest speaker series, Game Changers, involving international thought-leaders. Develops current relationships with AAA studios to identify new partnership opportunities (feedback on student game projects, scholarships, internship programs, exclusive access to gaming resources and products, etc.). Attends conferences and special events to advance industry relationships. Leverages LinkedIn Premium to generate leads with game development companies. Tracks current industry trends via game development outlets to assess best practices for the current market. Invites industry thought-leaders to serve on the program’s advisory board of ‘Guildmasters’. Co-manages 4 social media channels and composes content for promotion. Liaises with alumni and industry to secure copy for articles, press releases, etc. Plans and facilitates promotional video content (e.g. streamed content, interviews with students). Serves on committee pursuing additional awards and competitions for student game submissions. Co-writes report submitted for Princeton Review’s consideration. Facilitates screening for graduate, research and teaching assistants via career portal, Handshake. Plans travel for faculty candidates (when needed) and assists at special events as needed (e.g. orientation, graduation, etc.). Occasional evening and weekend hours required for special events. Education and Experience: Bachelor’s degree is required. A Master's degree is preferred. Five years professional work experience is required. Experience as a Student Career Counselor or Alumni relations at a university level or a Game industry recruiter is preferred. Experience counseling and mentoring students through the job search process is preferred. Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: Knowledge of specific skills needed in game development and how the video game industry conducts hiring is preferred. Candidate must demonstrate strong interpersonal and verbal communication skills, with the ability to communicate broadly across the University and develop and maintain effective relationships with a wide range of constituencies. Must also demonstrate strong written communication skills. Candidate must possess strong problem-solving skills with the ability to identify and analyze problems, as well as devise solutions. Must also have strong organizational, planning and time management skills. A strong working knowledge of MS Office (Word, Excel) is required. Experience working with Handshake is preferred. Physical/Environmental Demands: Sit for long periods of time Bend Reach above shoulders Carry/lift 25 lbs Handle objects (dexterity) Stand Push/pull Deadline to Apply: Priority consideration may be given to submissions received by: March 1, 2022 Deadline date: March 15, 2022 SMU will not discriminate in any program or activity on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, veteran status, sexual orientation, or gender identity and expression. The Executive Director for Access and Equity/Title IX Coordinator is designated to handle inquiries regarding nondiscrimination policies and may be reached at the Perkins Administration Building, Room 204, 6425 Boaz Lane, Dallas, TX 75205, 214-768-3601, accessequity@smu.edu. Contact Info: GuildhallDO@mail.smu.edu Apply to SMU Guildhall SMU Guildhall Game Changers Shaped Here 3100 McFarlin Blvd., Suite 306 Dallas , Texas 75275 (214) 768-4278 © SMU Legal Disclosures Site Index Working at SMU Apply to SMU Guildhall x