Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Undergraduate Admissions Menu Search TTU Undergraduate Admissions Self-Reported Academic Record Self-Reported Academic Record What is the SRAR? The Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) allows students to self-report courses and grades that have been attempted, or will be attempted, for high school credit. The SRAR replaces the high school transcript used by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions during the initial review process. Since accuracy is critical, you are advised to have a copy of your high school transcript available to use as a reference when you complete your SRAR. The SRAR is separate from the admissions application and is created through your RaiderConnect account. Go to RaiderConnect Informational Video Who is required to submit the SRAR? Beginning with Summer 2022 applications, the Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) is a required item for first-time in college students, and your application file will remain incomplete until it is completed. All first time in college applicants must complete a SRAR with the following exceptions: Applicants not completing high school in the U.S. must submit official or certified copies of all secondary school record and/or examination results. All academic records not in English must be accompanied by a certified English translation. GED graduates must submit their official GED transcript along with official partial high school transcript(s). Applicants who have already graduated from high school must submit their official final high school transcript. How do I complete the SRAR? The SRAR is completed separately from your admissions application. Follow the steps below: Create your RaiderConnect account Navigate to the "Submit Documents" tab Here you will link to the SRAR site and create an account If you have created an SRAR account and are returning at a later time to complete or update an existing SRAR, login here. Please note, your RaiderConnect account and SRAR account should be created with the same name and email address as it appears on your application. Entering grades on the SRAR: Please enter your grades exactly as they appear on your transcript or official score report. Enter your official grades for all courses where you will receive high school credit. If your school gives term or semester grades, list each course with all term or semester grades. If your school does not provide term grades, enter the final grade as "full year". Please only enter a full year grade if term grades are not provided. Please do not apply any grade format conversions or weights to your grades; just enter them as they appear on your transcript. Senior/12th grade and courses in progress: High school seniors should choose "In Progress" for scheduled/current 12th grade courses for which you do not yet have grades. If you have already completed a 12th grade course and received a grade, please indicate the grade received. If your exact course name is not on the drop-down list, just type it in exactly as it appears on your transcript. Texas high school students: The process for Top 10% Assured Admission in the state of Texas requires Texas Tech to have an accurate diploma type. If you are a Texas high school student, please ensure that you enter the high school diploma type that you are pursuing, which should be available on your transcript. Additional Frequently Asked Questions What are the benefits of using the Self-Reported Academic Record? Starting with Fall 2022, Texas Tech University is now requiring new-first-time applicants to submit a Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) instead of a high school transcript. This change will benefit applicants in the following ways: The SRAR allows you to control how quickly your application is complete. Because you no longer have to request for your school to send a transcript, we eliminate the time it takes for your school to complete that request and for Texas Tech to receive and process the document. Your application will enter the holistic review process sooner and a decision will be provided in 2-4 weeks. If an SRAR is required for other colleges you are applying to, you can eliminate duplication of effort and simply link your SRAR. You will only need to request for a transcript to be sent to Texas Tech once, after high school graduation and upon enrolling at Texas Tech University. When should I complete the Self-Reported Academic Record? We encourage you to complete the SRAR right after submitting your application. The sooner you submit all required application items, the sooner you will receive an admission decision. How long will completing the SRAR take? You should plan to spend about 30-45 minutes to complete the SRAR. For accuracy and ease of inputing your information, have a copy of your transcript available before beginning. Note, if you are completing an SRAR for another college, you can simply link your existing SRAR to Texas Tech, saving you time and duplication of effort. Can I update my SRAR after I have submitted it? You will be able to log back into your SRAR to update course changes, new grades, and additional test scores. When you re-submit updates, we will receive a new SRAR report that will be reviewed and added to your application file. We recommend doing this only occasionally, for example when you have your final quarter, semester, or trimester grades. What if I make a mistake or enter a typo on my SRAR? If you notice you made a mistake when entering your information on the SRAR after submission, email admissions@ttu.edu with your full name, Date of Birth, and the correction needed. I am in the Top 10% of my class. Do I need to submit a transcript upon application? You will not be required to submit a transcript when applying to Texas Tech. An official final transcript will be required upon high school graduation and enrollment to Texas Tech. The process for Top 10% Assured Admission in the state of Texas requires Texas Tech to have an accurate diploma type. If you are a Texas high school student, please ensure that you enter the high school diploma type that you are pursuing on your SRAR, which should be available on your transcript. What if I purposefully misrepresent my self-reported information? Admission to Texas Tech University is based upon many factors with the goal of ensuring your success in college. As an institution of higher education, we take academic integrity seriously. By submitting your Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR), you certify that the information you provided is complete and correct and is only the information that appears on your high school transcript. Submission of false information is grounds for rejection of your application to the university, withdrawal from any offer of acceptance, cancellation of enrollment, and/or appropriate disciplinary action. Texas Tech University will require an official final high school transcript upon your high school graduation to verify the information you submitted on your Self-Reported Academic Record is true and accurate. I have already graduated high school. Should I complete the SRAR? If you have already graduated high school, you should submit a final official high school transcript instead of completing the SRAR. Should home-schooled students complete the SRAR? Yes, home-schooled students will complete the SRAR. Click here for additional information regarding the admission process for home-schooled students. If you have questions about the SRAR website or trouble using the website, contact SRAR Technical Support. For assistance with the application process, contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions at admissions@ttu.edu. Undergraduate Admissions Like Undergraduate Admissions on FacebookLike Undergraduate Admissions on Facebook Follow Undergraduate Admissions on twitterFollow Undergraduate Admissions on twitter Follow Undergraduate Admissions on InstagramFollow Undergraduate Admissions on Instagram Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-1480 Email admissions@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityDec 21, 2021 3:55 PM Undergraduate Admissions Admission Undergraduate Admissions Admission Back Become a Red Raider Undergraduate Admissions Admission Become a Red Raider Back I'm Admitted I’m a High School Student I’m a Transfer Student I’m a Former Tech Student I’m an International Student My Students Want to be Red Raiders Admission Resources Undergraduate Admissions Admission Admission Resources Back En Español Find my Counselor Important Dates Other Admission Residency Determination Resources Request Information Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Academics Back Areas of Study Majors A-Z Colleges Online and Regional Programs Enrichment Undergraduate Admissions Academics Enrichment Back Undergraduate Research Study Abroad Honors College Preparation for Success Explore Undergraduate Admissions Academics Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Campus Tours & Events Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Back Schedule a Tour Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Schedule a Tour Back Campus Tours Large Group Tours Contact Us Attend an Event Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Attend an Event Back On-Campus Events Regional Events Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Explore Back Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Campus Life Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Back Live Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Live Back Campus Experience Dining Housing Safety Connect Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Connect Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions Student Organizations Recreation Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Cost & Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Back Find Value at Texas Tech Financial Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Net Cost Calculator Important Dates Financial Aid Forms Scholarships Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Scholarships Back For Incoming Freshmen For Incoming Transfers Frequently Asked Questions Explore Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index