Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Marketing + Communications Marketing + Communications right arrow down arrow Creative + Brand right arrow down arrow Photo + Video right arrow down arrow Photocatalog Brand + Design right arrow down arrow University Brand Guide Brand Guide for Digital Use Brand Resources Digital + User Experience right arrow down arrow Analytics Web (AEM) right arrow down arrow Accessibility Digital Governance right arrow down arrow DNS Requests Web Policy AEM User Guide right arrow down arrow Getting Started in AEM Sites Console Creating Pages Editing Pages Advanced Tips & Tricks News Social right arrow down arrow Social Media Policy Social Media Strategy Social Media Account Request Form Social Media Content Request Form Social Media Feedback Form Social Media Ambassador Program Marketing + Advertising Media + Content right arrow down arrow UC News UC Magazine Media Contacts Resources right arrow down arrow Push Forward Push Forward Toolkit Contact Home » About UC » Marketing + Communications » Digital + User Experience » Web (AEM) » AEM User Guide » Advanced Tips & Tricks Set Navigation title in component Analytics Web (AEM) Accessibility Digital Governance DNS Requests Web Policy AEM User Guide Getting Started in AEM Sites Console Creating Pages Editing Pages Advanced Tips & Tricks News Social Social Media Policy Social Media Strategy Social Media Account Request Form Social Media Content Request Form Social Media Feedback Form Social Media Ambassador Program Advanced Tips & Tricks Changing a URL (Move Function) In order to change a page URL, you will need to use the move function to change the page name. The move function can be found in the sites console on the action toolbar. When moving a page, you can change the name of the page, the location of the page or both. Select the page that need to be moved Select "move" from the action toolbar. In the first pane of the move wizard you will select the new name for your page. On the second screen you update where the page lives by selecting the page icon of the parent page. If you don't need to change where the page lives, select the current parent page. Select the move button in the top right corner to move. AEM Tip URL's should be changed only when absolutely necessary as you will be asking both your users and search engines to figure out where you have moved your pages. University of Cincinnati Edwards 2, Suite 3300 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-3001 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Edwards 2, Suite 3300 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-3001 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top