Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Philippines Home Connect Chapters International Philippines International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore The Philippines Chapter was one of the first official chapters set up in Asia. The chapter welcomes alumni, parents, and friends from the Philippines. Whether you are planning on visiting, have lived here for years, or are a new expatriate, all are encouraged to participate in the chapter’s events! We have Eagles living throughout Asia and are always seeking new volunteers to enrich and strengthen the regional chapter and it’s goals. 228 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us Philippines Chapter Facebook Page Meet Your Chapter Leaders Elizabeth "Lizzie" Eder Zobel '87 Lives in: Makati City, Metro-Manila, Philippines Major: Double Major in Philosophy and Economics Occupation: Co-founder and Chairman, Teach for the Philippines Favorite BC Memory: I have many beautiful memories of my years at Boston College, of the many wonderful friends I made, the great classroom discussions that opened my mind to possibilities, and the extraordinary professors who challenged me to think in more courageous ways. But my mind always takes me back to the extended meals at Eagle's Nest, taking life in with the comfort of friends. Why I got involved: BC changed the course of my life in many ways, a truly extraordinary experience. Since graduation, I had felt a desire to return to BC to find ways of contributing to the university's efforts in fulfilling its mission. When the BC alumni in Manila gathered to set up a BC chapter, I recognized it was an exceptional opportunity for me to reconnect with BC. It's been wonderful to meet alumni in the Philippines who share my commitment, and others around Asia who are as driven to promote the mission of BC. I have also enjoyed meeting the remarkable young Filipinos who are currently attending BC or headed to the school, filled with promise. Fun Fact: As most Colombians, I enjoy dancing salsa and became a certified Zumba instructor a few years ago, which has not translated to becoming an instructor, but it's been loaded with good energy and great people. Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Katie Foley Contact: foleyby@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok