Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller MBA For Military Community Home » Programs » MBA » For Military Community Menu MBA Full-time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta From advancing your military career to transitioning to the civilian sector, our Full-time, Evening, and Executive MBA programs can help you develop the business acumen to reach your goals. We value the leadership and problem-solving abilities military service men and women bring to our MBA programs. We're committed to helping you develop the skills and network you need to succeed with military friendly MBA programs for active-duty and reserve personnel, and veterans. All MBA degree programs will develop your analytical skills and build a solid foundation in all functional areas of business with numerous opportunities to hone your leadership skills. Choose from numerous ways to customize or specialize your education, while you learn from renowned faculty noted for their research, teaching, and business acumen. Our location within the Tech Square innovation ecosystem, a globally recognized nexus of innovation and entrepreneurial activity in the heart of Midtown Atlanta, gives MBA students access to some of the most dynamic companies and startups. Full-time MBA Delve into your studies undistracted by career commitments and earn your degree in 22 months. Customize your education and choose electives from multiple academic areas or focus your learning through more than 10 concentrations. Learn more Evening MBA Gain access to the same comprehensive curriculum as our Full-time MBA, with the flexibility to complete your degree at your own pace, and while you continue your military or civilian career. Learn more Executive MBA Earn your MBA in 17 months with select weekend classes. Specialize your MBA in either Global Business or Management of Technology. Cohort classes provide exceptional networking opportunities with leading professionals from top corporations. Learn more Finance Your Degree We accept a variety of benefits and offer funding for active-duty and reserve personnel, veterans, and their spouses or dependents, including: Post-9/11 GI Bill Yellow Ribbon Program Montgomery GI Bill Out-of-state tuition waiver Valuable merit-based funding opportunities Funding opportunities for each program vary. Visit our Full-time MBA, Evening MBA, and Executive MBA tuition and financing pages for more information, or contact us with questions. Your Success is our Priority View Profile » Meera AminMarketing Sourcing Specialist, The Walt Disney Company | Former Corporal, U.S. Marine Corps Alumni View Profile » Shawn IkpaSr. Manager, Amazon | Former Officer, U.S. Navy Alumni View Profile » Michael MillerBattalion Operations Officer, U.S. Army Alumni View Profile » Richard WongEnvironmental Engineer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency | Officer, U.S. Air Force Reserve Alumni Meera Amin Marketing Sourcing Specialist, The Walt Disney Company | Former Corporal, U.S. Marine Corps Status:Alumni Program:Full-time MBA Georgia Tech was instrumental in teaching me valuable business concepts and provided opportunities for hands-on projects at reputable companies. My education prepared me to succeed in any field of business. Shawn Ikpa Sr. Manager, Amazon | Former Officer, U.S. Navy Status:Alumni Program:Executive MBA Earning an MBA from Georgia Tech Scheller gave me the skills and confidence to transition from the military into the corporate sector. The Scheller MBA program is so well respected and recognized globally, that I had instant credibility when interviewing with the world's top corporations. Having an MBA from Georgia Tech continues to open many doors for me professionally and personally. Michael Miller Battalion Operations Officer, U.S. Army Status:Alumni Program:Executive MBA In today's world, leaders are required to think critically and creatively. For those of us in the military, one way to develop critical thinking skills is to immerse ourselves in as many experiences as possible, interact with people who think differently, and never cease to be a lifelong learner. Georgia Tech's EMBA program allowed me to develop myself within a world-class institution while continuing to gain valuable work experience simultaneously. Richard Wong Environmental Engineer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency | Officer, U.S. Air Force Reserve Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA The flexibility of Georgia Tech's Evening MBA format allowed me to earn my degree while I continued my civilian career and the Air Force Reserve. I was able to choose classes that fit my schedule and take time off from school when I was redeployed. Through our programs, you will: Acquire a relevant and rigorous education Develop analytical skills and gain a solid foundation in all functional areas of business with numerous opportunities to hone your leadership skills. Choose from numerous ways to customize or specialize your curriculum and MBA degree. Gain a competitive advantage Position yourself for broader career opportunities, long-term growth, and greater compensation. The combination of your military experience and an MBA will further differentiate you from other candidates as you expand your career. Expand your network Join a diverse student body from various professional backgrounds and develop connections you'll leverage throughout your career. Obtain access to outstanding career support Georgia Tech graduates with military experience enjoy tremendous success in the workforce. Experienced advisors will help you develop and implement a strategy to promote or transition your career. Specifically for veterans, the Career Center offers preparation for the annual MBA Veterans Career Conference (limited to students from top-ranked business schools). Proud to partner with: Related Links Full-time MBA Program Evening MBA Program Executive MBA Program Veterans' Services at Georgia Tech GI Bill Website Take action Request More Info Attend an Info Session MBA Student Podcast: Veterans in MBA 100 Years of ROTC at Georgia Tech My Path from the Military to a Full-time MBA Military-based students share their EMBA experiences Coast Guard veterans share their MBA experiences at the Scheller College of Business Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures