Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Tangeman University Center TUC right arrow down arrow Visiting TUC right arrow down arrow Floor Plans Dining right arrow down arrow Catering Convenience Store Vending Services Retail right arrow down arrow UC Bookstores right arrow down arrow Course Materials & Tech Fan Gear For Grads & Alumni, Plus Special Orders Bearcat Card right arrow down arrow Where to Use Your Bearcat Card Terms & Conditions Frequently Asked Questions Information for Merchants PNC Bank & ATMs Convenience Store Services right arrow down arrow Study Spaces MainStreet Connection Center Wepa Print Station Lost & Found Steger Student Life Center (SSLC) Bearcat Promise Career Studio Promotions Request Meetings & Events right arrow down arrow Great Hall Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Rates Planning Services Request a Space About TUC right arrow down arrow Larry Elsasser Scholarship & Recipients Video Backgrounds Home » Campus Life » TUC Tangeman University Center Tangeman University Center (TUC) and Steger Student Life Center (SSLC) are located in the center of UC’s main campus on MainStreet, the pedestrian walkway that starts at University Pavilion and extends to University Avenue. Read about the beginnings of the student center and how it has changed through the years. Every day, thousands of students, UC employees and visitors enjoy all that the building has to offer. It's THE place to eat, shop, study and meet. How's your appetite? There is no shortage of options for satisfying your appetite in TUC! From grab-and-go, treats and beverages to popular brands and meal plan dining, there's lots of variety, too! dining options Shop for books and gear UC Bookstores have the largest selection of UC apparel and fan gear anywhere! And true to its name, has the course materials students need for academic success, plus the latest tech. Retail services Get together at TUC Whether you're planning a casual business meeting, conference or formal banquet, TUC is the perfect venue. Check out Great Hall, the meeting rooms, cinema and atrium before you select your venue. Students will find plenty of study space in TUC, as well! Comfortable furniture features power sources throughout levels 3 and 4, and groups gather frequently in the food court to study. When they need more privacy for a study group, meeting rooms that aren't reserved can be requested On Demand. Meetings & Events study spaces Open to everyone! Everyone is welcome in TUC! If you're new to campus and need directions, check the Visiting TUC page. Check our floor plans for service locations, or stop by the MainStreet Connection Center for information. 2766 UC MainStreet | Cincinnati, OH 45221 Information | 513-556-2831 | mainstreet@uc.edu Schedule a Room or Event | 513-558-1810 | event.services@uc.edu Hours getting here Recent News Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Internationally acclaimed clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky joins... May 27, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Vinnitsky’s appointment as Associate Professor of Clarinet begins on Aug. 15, 2022. Ohio recognizes UC's efforts to welcome veterans May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati this week was among the first universities to be recognized by Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine for its efforts to support students with military backgrounds. Debug Query for this Tangeman University Center 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-2831 mainstreet@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Tangeman University Center 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-2831 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top