Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Board of Trustees Board of Trustees Committees Agriculture and Natural Resources Committee The Agriculture and Natural Resources Committee shall consider and recommend policies relating to the Division of Agriculture and Natural Resources and the Public Service Activities (PSA) of the University. Members Louis Lynn, Chair David Dukes, Vice Chair Patti McAbee Nicky McCarter Bob Peeler Tom McTeer, Emeritus Compensation Committee The Mission of the Board of Trustees Compensation Committee is to ensure that Clemson University has a compensation policy that is market-level competitive, supports maintaining top 20 status, achieving Carnegie Research Very High status and continuing to achieve excellence in our athletic programs. Such policy must apply to all faculty, staff, administrators and coaches. The Board expects Clemson University's compensation policy and implementation procedures to be consistent, to be driven by budgetary constraints and good fiscal stewardship, to be tied directly to employee performance that is linked to objective standards, and to be targeted at competitive market levels for similar jobs in local, state, regional or national markets as appropriate. The Compensation Committee Charter can be found in the Board of Trustees Manual in Appendix G. Members Smyth McKissick, Chair Nicky McCarter, Vice Chair Bob Peeler Kim Wilkerson Cheri Phyfer Bill Hendrix, Emeritus David Wilkins, Emeritus Educational Policy Committee The Educational Policy Committee shall consider and recommend policies governing the educational activities of the University. Members Bob Peeler, Chair Joe Swann, Vice Chair Ronnie Lee Bill Smith Mark Richardson Nikki Haley J.J. Britton, Emeritus Allen Wood, Emeritus Executive and Audit Committee The Executive and Audit Committee is composed of the Chairman of the Board and the Chairs of the Standing Committees. The Chairman of the Board is Chairman of the Executive and Audit Committee. The primary purpose of the Executive and Audit Committee is to assist the Board of Trustees of Clemson University in discharging its responsibility relative to monitoring the University's system of internal control, accounting policies and financial reporting procedures. The Committee serves as the focal point of communication between the Board of Trustees, outside auditors, the Internal Auditor and state and federal agency auditors. Members Kim Wilkerson, Chair David Dukes Ronnie Lee Louis Lynn Bob Peeler Cheri Phyfer Bill Smith Smyth McKissick Finance and Facilities Committee The Finance and Facilities Committee shall consider and recommend policies and procedures governing all aspects of the University's budgeting, financing, expenditures, financial reporting, construction and maintenance facilities, acquisition and disposal of capital assets and Human Resources. The Committee maintains authority to establish policy direction of the investment of University funds. Members David Dukes, Chair Smyth McKissick, Vice Chair Nicky McCarter Mark Richardson Nikki Haley Bill Hendrix, Emeritus David Wilkins, Emeritus Institutional Advancement Committee The Institutional Advancement Committee shall consider and recommend policies to govern fundraising activities of the University and shall maintain continuous policy review over the public affairs, public relations and alumni relations activities of the University. Members Cheri Phyfer, Chair Mark Richardson, Vice Chair Ronnie Lee Patti McAbee Smyth McKissick Nikki Haley J.J. Britton, Emeritus David Wilkins, Emeritus Research and Economic Development Committee The Research & Economic Development Committee shall consider and recommend policies to support the research mission of Clemson University. These policies adopted foster the growth of research both in quality and quantity. Members Ronnie Lee, Chair Bill Smith, Vice Chair Joe Swann Cheri Phyfer Louis Lynn Tom McTeer, Emeritus Student Affairs Committee The Student Affairs Committee shall consider and recommend policies related to student development programs and to services for students and related constituent groups. Members Bill Smith, Chair Patti McAbee, Vice Chair Joe Swann David Dukes Louis Lynn Allen Wood, Emeritus Home Award for Excellence Clemson Medallion Committees Manual Members Minutes Policies Values Statement Contact Us Task Forces History of Clemson Related Links University President University Provost Board of Trustees Board of Visitors Diversity and Inclusion Faculty Senate Staff Senate University Reports Accountability Report Clemson University Security and Fire Safety Report ClemsonForward Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram