Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Biotechnology Graduate Program Home About Us People Master's Master of Science Master of Arts 5th-Year Master's Degree Management Track Part-Time Track Co-op and Employment Opportunities Admission and Financial Aid Career Outcomes For Current Students PhD Program Research Events Site Navigation Home About Us Featured Students Our Community Diversity & Inclusion Resources People Faculty Administration Leadership Master's Master of Science Master of Arts 5th-Year Master's Degree Management Track Part-Time Track Co-op and Employment Opportunities Admission and Financial Aid Career Outcomes For Current Students PhD Program Research Research News and Highlights Events Fifth-Year Master's Degree in Biotechnology (AM or ScM) The Fifth-Year Master’s Program is open to Brown undergraduate students with appropriate backgrounds in biology, biophysics, chemistry, physics, engineering, materials science, economics, or finance. 5th Year students may pursue either the ScM or AM degree. The Biotechnology management track is also an option. 5th Year students must meet the requirements of their undergraduate concentration, and choose a faculty advisor ahead of their matriculation into the graduate program. While GREs are not required, applicants must fill out graduate school application as well as two letters of recommendation, a personal statement, an unofficial transcript, and the 5th Year Supplemental Application. ScM Degree Completion requirements A minimum of 8 tuition units (credits) are required. Must receive a grade of B or better, courses must be taken for a grade rather than credit/no credit. A maximum of 2 advanced level courses can be applied towards the Master’s degree as long as they are not used towards fulfillment of undergraduate concentration. Approval of Program Director required. Program Director endorses the student’s proposed curriculum. At least five of the required eight courses must be structured, advanced level courses in biology or the sciences. No more than three of the required eight courses are to be used for thesis research (Graduate Independent Study). Must identify Brown faculty member willing to host student in lab. Students do research in lab for duration of time in the program. Student and faculty mentor select Thesis Committee. Submit final thesis, present work as a seminar and pass final oral examination by Thesis Committee. AM Degree Completion requirements A minimum of 8 tuition units (credits) are required. Must receive a grade of B or better, courses must be taken for a grade rather than credit/no credit. A maximum of 2 advanced level courses can be applied towards the Master’s degree as long as they are not used towards fulfillment of undergraduate concentration. Approval of Program Director required. Program Director endorses the student’s proposed curriculum. Must complete an approved program of study consisting of at least eight structured, advanced-level courses in biology or the sciences. Management Track (AM or ScM) Completion requirements A minimum of 8 tuition units are required. Must receive a grade of B or better, courses must be taken for a grade rather than credit/no credit. A maximum of 2 advanced level courses can be applied towards the Master’s degree as long as they are not used towards fulfillment of undergraduate concentration. Approval of Program Director required. Must take these four Biotechnology Industry courses BIOL 2020 Biotechnology Science and Industry BIOL 2089 Importance of Intellectual Property in Biotechnology BIOL 2000-level Management Strategies in Biotechnology BIOL 2000-level Commercialization Pathways in Biotechnology Other courses selected from Biotechnology Research Track courses and/or Biotechnology Diseases courses. Program Director endorses the student’s proposed curriculum. For students doing research and thesis (ScM) No more than two of the required eight courses are to be used for thesis research. Must identify Brown faculty member willing to host student in lab. Student and faculty mentor select Thesis Committee. Submit final thesis, present work as a seminar and pass final oral examination by Thesis Committee. For students not doing research, non-thesis option (AM) Must complete four Biotechnology Industry courses (above) and four other courses selected from Biotechnology Research Track courses and/or Biotechnology Diseases courses Students who elect to fulfill the requirements of a non-thesis degree receive the A.M. degree. Master's Master of Science Master of Arts 5th-Year Master's Degree Management Track Part-Time Track Co-op and Employment Opportunities Admission and Financial Aid Career Outcomes For Current Students Graduate Program in Biotechnology Graduate Program in Biotechnology Brown University Box G-B3 171 Meeting Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3262 Fax: 401-863-1595 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top