Rockefeller College Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Rockefeller College Main Menu Menu Home About Submenu History John D. Rockefeller Mission, Standards, and Values People Submenu Staff Residential College Advisers Faculty Advisers College Council Faculty Fellows Peer Academic Advisers Peer Health Advisers Resident Graduate Students Residential College Leadership Team Academics Student Life Submenu Wellness and Safety Firestone Society Intramurals Live Well, Be Well Useful Contacts FYRE (First Year Residential Experience) Events Submenu Upcoming Events Calendar Conversation Tables Places Contact Four-Year College Transition ODOC Families Log in Search Search Rockefeller College 1 / 5 Previous image ◀︎ Next image ▶︎ NEWS Rockyites among recipients of Class Day awards! May 24, 2022 Congratulations to Rockyites Ashwin Mahadevan ‘22, Bethwel Kiplimo ‘22 and Grace Simmons ‘22 on their Class Day awards! Read more Rockyite Cassidy Humphreys '22 creates a faster, cheaper - and greener - chemical reaction May 18, 2022 Read more: Senior thesis: Cassidy Humphreys creates a faster, cheaper - and greener - chemical reaction Daily Princetonian Q&A with Heather Parker of Rocky/Mathey Dining Services March 2, 2022 Heather Parker is one of the many wonderful people you'll find in the Rocky/Mathey Dining Hall who is dedicated to their work at Princeton. This interview by Rockyite Sydney Eck '24 in the Daily Princetonian captures a small glimpse of who Heather is and what she enjoys most about her role. Rockyite Sydney Hughes '22 named a Sachs Scholar! Jan. 14, 2022 Sydney Hughes '22, a Rocky senior and chemical and biological engineering major, was named a Sachs Global Scholar at Technical University of Munich. Sydney will work with one of the world’s leading hydrogen fuel cell research teams at TUM, and hopes to have a career developing technologies to address climate change. View All News Room Reservations Rockefeller College is home to beautiful spaces like our Common Room, Private Dining Room, our Theater and our Classroom. For information about capacity and availability or to make a request to reserve one of our spaces, please visit scheduling.princeton.edu. Please be sure to review the University's most updated Gatherings Policy and register your event in CLEVER. PLEASE NOTE: Requests can only been seen and processed during business hours (Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm). Please be sure to provide at least 24 hours notice for your requests. If you are submitting a request with less than 24 hours lead-time, please reach out to Stephanie Maguire so that we are aware. Meet your college staff Upcoming Events Fall Term Classes Begin Tue, Sep 6, 2022 View All Events Useful Links Princeton COVID Resources MyUHS Housing Gatherings Policy Request a Rocky Space (EMS) Rocky College Council Rocky College Student Face Book Join the Rocky Wire Rocky Facebook Our Statement Regarding Anti-Racism A Message to Our Rocky Community Footer Rockefeller College Office, 203 Madison Hall, Princeton, NJ 08544 PH: (609) 258-3728 | FX: (609) 258-0903 The residential colleges represent the Office of the Dean of the College and the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students. Footer menu Emergency Preparedness Dean of the College Publications Policies Facebook Google+ Twitter YouTube Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University