Ask Us My Account Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social Digital Collections Special Collections Online Exhibits Image Rights and Reproductions Digital Solutions Digital Solutions Digital Preservation Digital Collections Home / libraries / Digital Collections SMU Digital Collections Find photographs, manuscripts, imprints, works of art, and audio/video on many historical subjects. Search Featured Items One of Joseph S. Bridwell's (second from right) prized Hereford bulls. Watch the stories of SMU Alumni in the Voices of SMU Oral Histories. Learn about the Mexican Revolution in the Powell collection. This Latin Bible features early Netherlandish illumination. Newly annotated news clips from the Jones Collection's WFAA archive. What's New in Digital Collections: Off the Shelf Blog Real Photographic Postcards of Texas, TexTreasures 2021 grant Works by Texas artists held by SMU Libraries and partner institutions Browse Collections Filtering collections by: Filter by subject or library. Filter by subject Art Audio/Video Business Dallas Incunabula Lantern Slides Methodists Mexico Military Postcards Railroads Sermons SMU Texana Wesley Filter by library Bridwell Library Bywaters Special Collections DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library SMU Archives Underwood Law Library Aerial Photos of the Northern Part of Dallas, Texas Foscue Map Library Aerial photographs of northern Dallas, taken around 1940. African American Film Materials DeGolyer Library Photographs and pressbooks from films featuring African American actors, 1943-1985 Alvin Colt Collection DeGolyer Library Design drawings, photographs, and materials from Neiman Marcus Fortnights, ca. 1963-1986. Andy Hanson Photographs DeGolyer Library Photographs of people from Dallas and the celebrities and politicians who visited the city from 1960 to 2008. Archives of Women of the Southwest DeGolyer Library Items documenting the experience of women in the Southwest, ca. 1840s-1980s. Banks McLaurin, Jr. Stereograph Collection DeGolyer Library Stereoscopic views by hundreds of photographers and publishers, ca. 1851-1930. Belo Records, 1842-2007 DeGolyer Library Business documents and artifacts preserved by the company’s leadership since its establishment in 1842. Bowen (Elias and Abigail) Family Papers Letters and documents relating to Rev. Bowen's ministerial career and family. British Methodists Documents and Images Bridwell Library Featuring notable British Methodists in letters, documents, and images. Bywaters Special Collections - Texas Artists Archives Bywaters Special Collections, Hamon Arts Library Research materials from and about prominent Texas artists. Cantonment Burgwin Postings Ft. Burgwin Library, SMU-in-Taos Documents chronicling the establishment and history of this small military installation near Taos, NM. Civil War: Photographs, Manuscripts, and Imprints DeGolyer Library Photographs, images, albums, and more, relating to the Civil War. Clark (Elmer T.) Portraits of Methodist Bishops Bridwell Library Fifty-eight black-and-white photographic portraits of Methodist bishops. Cooke and Clarke Family Documents and Images Bridwell Library The domestic relationships and spiritual concerns of two generations of early Methodists. Dallas Historic Aerial Photographs, 1930 Fairchild Survey Foscue Map Library Aerial images commissioned by the City of Dallas in 1930. Dallas Aerial Photographs, 1945 USDA Survey Foscue Map Library Photographs taken to survey Dallas area farmland in 1945. DISD Desegregation Litigation Archives Papers concerning the Dallas Independent School District desegregation case. DeGolyer Library: Photographs, Manuscripts, and Imprints DeGolyer Library Photographs, images, albums, and more held by SMU's DeGolyer Library, 1584-1942. Division of Dance Concert Programs and Materials Meadows School of the Arts Programs from the Meadows School of the Arts dance exhibitions, 1960s-2000s Doris A. and Lawrence H. Budner Collection DeGolyer Library Photographs, correspondence, ephemera, and more related to President Theodore Roosevelt. Dürer (Albrecht) Prints at Bridwell Library Bridwell Library A collection of woodcuts, engravings, and etchings by the foremost printmaker in Renaissance Europe. Edward C. Fritz Papers, 1950s-2008 DeGolyer Library Documents and photographs that record the 1970s debate over the canalization of the Trinity River. Elmer and Diane Powell Collection on Mexico and the Mexican Revolution DeGolyer Library Unique materials with a focus on the Revolution period and key political and military men. Emory (John) 1820 Journal Bridwell Library A record of Emory's travels as a delegate at the Methodist General Conference in England. Esther Webb Houseman Art Work and Papers Bywaters Special Collections, Hamon Arts Library Personal works and materials related to the Dallas School of Creative Arts and the Craft Guild of Dallas. Europe, Asia, and Australia: Photographs, Manuscripts, and Imprints DeGolyer Library Photographs and other materials from Europe, Asia and Australia, 1813-1961 Fifteenth-Century Printed Books Bridwell Library Books printed in Europe with moveable type before 1501. Fowler Family Papers Bridwell Library Letters and documents from Littleton Fowler and family. Frank J. Davis World War II Photographs DeGolyer Library Frontline photographs and images portraying life around the world during World War II. George Albert Converse Papers and Photographs DeGolyer Library Materials related to ships and torpedoes, blueprints, and periodicals from Converse’s Naval career. George W. Cook Dallas/ Texas Image Collection DeGolyer Library Historical artifacts relating to Dallas and Texas, collected by George W. Cook, 1836-1980. G. William Jones Film and Video Collection Hamon Arts Library The film Carib Gold, from the G. William Jones Film and Video Collection. Hastings (Selina), Countess of Huntingdon, Letters and Images Bridwell Library A noteworthy figure in eighteenth-century English Methodism. Haweis (Thomas) Letters and Images Bridwell Library Featuring the early years of the Missionary Society and Haweis's position with Lady Huntingdon. Hervey A. Priddy Collection DeGolyer Library American presidential and political memorabilia, 1833-2017. Historic Government Publications Fondren Library Pamphlets published by the US Government during World War II. The History of Bridwell Library Bridwell Library Photographs and documents spanning the 1950s through the 1990s. Horton Foote: Photographs and Manuscripts DeGolyer Library Photographs, images, albums, and more, relating to the American author and playwright. Isabel T. Kelly Ethnographic Archive DeGolyer Library Items relating to the field work of the pioneering female anthropologist and archaeologist. Jack and Beverly Wilgus History of Photography Collection DeGolyer Library Images and artifacts from all eras in the history of photography. Jack Kilby Photographs DeGolyer Library Photographs by engineer Jack Kilby, Nobel Prize winning inventor of the integrated circuit. Jake and Nancy Hamon Papers Bywaters Special Collections The papers and artwork of prominent Dallas couple Jake and Nancy Hamon. JCPenney Dynamo Newsletters DeGolyer Library 31 issues of the Dynamo corporate newsletter, which ceased publication in 1932. J. Erik Jonsson Papers DeGolyer Library Papers and other materials from the former Mayor of Dallas and Texas Instruments Chairman. J.L. Turner Sr. Papers Legal documents from pioneering Dallas attorney J.L. Turner, ca. 1890s-1950s. John C. Cox, Jr. World War II papers DeGolyer Library Correspondence, photographs, and other materials related to Cox's military service. John G. Tower Digital Media Collection Fondren Library Video and audio clips highlighting John G. Tower’s life and career. John Miller Morris Real Photographic Postcards and Photographs of Texas DeGolyer Library Postcards and photographs of life in Texas, most ca. 1900-1925. Kenneth D. Roseman Collection Bridwell Library Sermons, documents, and images from the Kenneth D. Roseman Collection Lantern slides produced by the Methodist Episopal Church, South Bridwell Library Visual aids for promoting the denomination’s missionary work at home and abroad. Latin America and the Caribbean: Photographs, Manuscripts, and Imprints DeGolyer Library Photographs and other materials relating to Latin America and the Caribbean. Lawrence T. Jones III Texas Photographs DeGolyer Library A wide range of Texas photography, ca. 1842-2000 Mary McCord/Edyth Renshaw Collection Bywaters Special Collections, Hamon Arts Library Programs, photographs, and other items related to the performing arts, ca. 8th century-1960s. Melvin C. Shaffer World War II Photographs DeGolyer Library Images depicting the conditions in North Africa, Italy/Southern France, and Germany from 1943 to 1945. Methodism in the United Kingdom and Ireland Bridwell Library Included are autographs, photographs, and other documents that date from 1740 to 1917. Mexico: Photographs, Manuscripts, and Imprints DeGolyer Library Images and documents from Mexico, 1735-1990s. Miscellaneous Aerial Views of Dallas Foscue Map Library Aerial photographs of Dallas from the 1930s and 1940s. Moore (Henry) Unpublished Manuscript Bridwell Library A transcription of Henry Moore’s argumentative account of the “biography controversy,” c. 1797. Muse (William E.) Lantern Slides Bridwell Library 118 glass slides that include images of the American Baptist Missionary Union ship Fukuin Maru. Ninde Gamewell - Views Taken in China 1909-1911 Bridwell Library 437 photographs taken during missionary trips to China 1909-1911 North America: Photographs, Manuscripts, and Imprints DeGolyer Library Items from the U.S. Northeast, Southeast, Midwest and Canada. Octavio Medellin Art Work and Papers Hamon Arts Library Works include photographs, designs, and sculptures, ca. 1913-1986 Olan (Levi A.) Sermons and Images Bridwell Library Levi Olan was a prominent rabbi, scholar, and community leader. Otis Dozier Sketchbooks Bywaters Special Collections, Hamon Arts Library Sketchbooks spanning Dozier's artistic career from the 1930s-1980s. Outler (Albert Cook) Papers Bridwell Library Dr. Outler was a world-renowned theologian and Wesley scholar. Perkins School of Theology Collection Bridwell Library A variety of documents, images, and publications produced by, on behalf of, or about the school. Potter Art Iron Studios Collection Bywaters Special Collections, Hamon Arts Library Shop drawings, layouts, and related materials for the studios' work from the 1920s to the 1960s. Railroads: Photographs, Manuscripts, and Imprints DeGolyer Library Thousands of items from Everett DeGolyer Jr.'s personal collection and other notable accessions. Richard Steinheimer Photograph Collection DeGolyer Library Photographs taken by the prolific railroad photographer. Robert Yarnall Richie Photograph Collection DeGolyer Library Corporate and industrial photographs made by Richie from 1932-1975. Rosa Bonheur Correspondence Bywaters Special Collections, Hamon Arts Library Correspondence written by and regarding the prominent 19th century French artist. Rowe-Barr Collection of Texas Currency DeGolyer Library Notes, scrip, bonds, and other financial obligations, issued in Texas between the 1820s and 1935. Selections from the DeForrest Judd Sketchbooks Bywaters Special Collections, Hamon Arts Library A sample of sketches from the nine sketchbooks held by SMU. SERVICE Newsletter Bridwell Library Twenty-seven issues of SERVICE were published between May 1920 and March 1926 Sir Ellice Victor Elias Sassoon Papers and Photographs Diaries and photographs from the traveler and real estate entrepreneur. SMU-in-Taos Research Publications Ft. Burgwin Library, SMU-in-Taos Anthropological research papers by researchers at Fort Burgwin, 1970s-1999. SMU Oral History and Digital Humanities Student Projects SMU Archives, DeGolyer Library Oral histories created by SMU students. SMU Video Archive Series Interviews with SMU faculty, staff, and other dignitaries filmed between 2000 and 2011. Southern Methodist University Campus Memories SMU Archives Photos, texts, and videos of SMU during all phases of its history. Southern Methodist University Course Catalogs Historical course catalogs for SMU. Southern Methodist University Publications and Media Collection SMU Archives, DeGolyer Library A wide range of publications created by students, staff, and/or professors of SMU. Southern Methodist University Rotunda Yearbooks SMU Archives, DeGolyer Library SMU student yearbooks, 1915-2012. Southern Methodist University Student Newspapers SMU Archives Newspapers published by SMU students from 1915-1989. Stanley Marcus Papers DeGolyer Library Photographs, documents, and other items related to Stanley Marcus and the Neiman Marcus store. Sulphur Springs Collection of Pre-Nickelodeon Films Hamon Arts Library Short films, made between 1898 and 1906. Texas Artists: Paintings, Sculpture, and Works on Paper Bywaters Special Collections, Hamon Arts Library Works of art held by SMU and several partner institutions. Texas Instruments Records DeGolyer Library Corporate records, photographs, and artifacts from Texas Instruments and its predecessor, ca. 1921-2007. Texas: Photographs, Manuscripts, and Imprints DeGolyer Library Photographs, postcards, books, historic documents, and maps documenting the history of Texas. The Record, Dallas Archaeological Society Fondren Library Issues of the Dallas Archaeological Society's newsletter, 1940s-2000s Tyler, Texas Black Films Hamon Arts Library African-American films created between 1935 and 1956. U.S. West: Photographs, Manuscripts, and Imprints DeGolyer Library Photographs, postcards, books, historic documents, and more from the West, ca. 1846-1960s. Vincent (John Heyl) Papers and Images Bridwell Library The Rev. Vincent was a noted minister, author, educator, and public speaker. Voices of Change Recordings and Materials Bywaters Special Collections, Hamon Arts Library Voices of Change performances, along with corresponding materials. Wesley (Charles) Family Papers Bridwell Library Forty-one letters and and written and visual documents. Wesley (John) Letters at Bridwell Library Bridwell Library The collection consists of 142 letters from the evangelist and theologian. Wesley (John) 1758 Sermon Bridwell Library A sermon on Hebrews 4:9 from the hand of John Wesley. WFAA Newsfilm Collection, ca. 1960-1978 Hamon Arts Library News footage broadcast in Dallas from 1960-1978. Whitefield (George) Letters and Images Bridwell Library The personal life and ministerial career of a leading eighteenth-century English missionary. White Rock Lake Aerial Photographs, 1927 Fairchild Survey DeGolyer Library Aerial images of Dallas taken in 1927 by Fairchild Aerial Surveys. Willard (Frances E.) Papers and Images Bridwell Library An educator and social reformer dedicated to the causes of temperance and women's suffrage. William Halsey Locomotive Drawing Collection DeGolyer Library 84 watercolor drawings by 19th century railroad enthusiast William Halsey. Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275