Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW Admission Requirements Next Steps Common App Finish Application Apply to the University of Wyoming Undergraduate & Graduate Admissions APPLY Applying to the University of Wyoming takes less than 10 minutes and will lead you to some of the most incredible moments in your lifetime. Make sure to check the admissions requirements and materials needed for each student type as you will need this to finish the admission process. If you’re are a prospective student from another country, be sure to view our international undergraduate admission requirements. Are you a returning user? Log in to an existing account to finish an application or check your status. LOG IN Admission Requirements FIRST-YEAR UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS TRANSFER STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS GRADUATE STUDENTS *Graduate programs subject to specific requirements. Additional Student Categories We have many students who may be seeking admission to the University of Wyoming through an additional category or scenario. These include: Veteran Students Returning Students (previously enrolled & have taken more than one semester off) Second Bachelor's Degree Students Non-Degree Seeking Student High School Guests (seniors or juniors seeking college credit through UW) UW Casper Students UW Distance Students Learn more about each category's requirements and steps for admission. You will use UW's standard online application once you're ready to apply! LEARN MORE Check Your Application Status Undergraduate Students If you are an undergraduate applicant, you can check your application status by logging into our portal. Most undergraduate students are mailed and emailed with the decision of their application. If you fall in an additional student category, we recommend logging in if you have not received an email with your decision. Graduate Students Graduate students should reach out to the coordinator of the program in which they’ve applied to check the status of their admission decision. Please Note: Most graduate programs are responsible for the admission decision once the candidate has applied to UW. More Resources The University of Wyoming strives to make obtaining your degree affordable and accessible. That’s why our undergraduate admission is on a “rolling basis”, meaning you can apply at any time for the upcoming semester. If you’re a first-year student, make sure to confirm your enrollment by May 1 in order to secure any financial aid awarded to you. Scholarships, Opportunities & Commitments FINANCIAL AID Tuition & Fees COST OF ATTENDANCE Degrees & Programs VIEW MAJORS We're Eager to Help Contact Us UW OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Knight Hall 150 Department 3435, 1000 E. University Avenue Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-5160 Toll-Free: (800) 342-5996 E-mail: admissions@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility