By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Visit and Tour Campus Visits In this Section Schools & Colleges Campus Visits Come see Syracuse's beautiful, iconic campus in any season, take a student-led tour or a self-guided tour to gain insight to the undergraduate experience. Plan your visit and get ready to make yourself at home. Join us for a campus visit! Available Monday-Friday, at 9 a.m. and 1 p.m. and Saturdays at 9 a.m., the campus visit provides insight into academics and what it’s like to be a student on campus. Your visit will begin with a half hour information session, providing an overview of Syracuse University and the application and financial aid processes. A campus tour will follow the information session, led by a student ambassador from our University 100. While you’re on campus, you’re also invited to attend a school/college information session, available daily at 11 a.m. Thinking about a particular major or field ? This your chance to learn more! Campus Visit Schedule (Monday-Friday) 9 a.m. or 1 p.m.: Information Session 9:30 a.m. or 1:30 p.m.: Campus Tour 11 a.m. or 3 p.m.: School/College Visit Campus Visit Schedule (Saturday) 9 a.m.: Information Session 9:30 a.m.: Campus Tour * Please note: There are a few colleges that offer only one visit opportunity per day. Visitors who would like to see one of these schools may register and attend either the morning or afternoon information session and campus tour. Like many institutions, Syracuse University has implemented public health guidance due to COVID-19. We ask that you adhere to the appropriate masking and safety protocols as outlined by the University. Available for prospective students and two family members from the same household. We would appreciate your cooperation by reviewing the CDC guidelines regarding COVID-19 symptoms prior to arrival. We also ask that you review and adhere to any New York State Travel Advisories . Health and safety information will be emailed to registrants in the confirmation email. Register for a campus visit. Reservations are required. Space is limited. Self-Guided Tour Also Available You are also welcome to explore campus on your own using our self-guided tour. To access the tour, please check in with the Office of Admissions at the Visitor’s Center (401 University Place). Admissions staff will be available to answer any questions you may have during business hours on weekdays. If you are touring outside of these hours, please follow the instructions posted at the front entrance. Important Links Link Daily Visitor Parking Link Information about short-term parking, admissions parking, lot locations, accessibility, directions and maps. Things to Do in the City of Syracuse Link Syracuse University is located in the heart of New York state, resting atop a hill overlooking the City of Syracuse. The sprawling campus is just a short walk, drive or bus ride away from downtown. Related Pages Campus Map Here you'll find comprehensive campus maps to academic buildings, residence halls, parking, directions, and more. Visitor Tips Whether you're visiting Syracuse University for a just a few hours or a whole weekend, we have plenty of things to do, places to stay, and food to enjoy. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy