Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search News & Information News & Information News Stories UWT in the News Podcast: Paw'd Defiance Subscribe MyUW Map Tools Labor Solidarity Project Hosts Seminar on 'Revolutionary Nonviolence' May 16, 2022 The event will feature a screening of a documentary on Rev. James Lawson, spiritual advisor to MLK, plus a discussion of nonviolent organizing and labor education by Dr. Kent Wong of UCLA, and local labor leaders commenting on the state of organizing in the northwest. The online seminar is free and open to the public, but registration is required. Labor unions and nonviolent organizing are the subjects of an event sponsored by the UW Tacoma Labor Solidarity Project along with the UW Harry Bridges Center for Labor Studies; the Pacific Northwest Labor History Association; the Washington State Labor Council, AFL-CIO; and the Labor Education and Research Center at South Seattle College. “Revolutionary Nonviolence, An Online Seminar on Organizing for Freedom,” led by Dr. Kent Wong, the director of the Center for Labor Research and Education at UCLA, takes place on Friday, May 20 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. The event coincides with the recent publication of “Revolutionary Nonviolence: Organizing for Freedom” by James Lawson, UW Tacoma Professor Mike Honey and Dr. Wong. Lawson was the spiritual advisor to Martin Luther King, Jr. The two worked together on the “Poor People’s Campaign.” “He [Lawson] carried on the fight for economic justice after King’s assassination” said UW Tacoma Assistant Teaching Professor Alex Miller. Lawson came to UW Tacoma in the early 2000s. His visit formed the basis of a documentary Honey helped created called “Love and Solidarity: James Lawson and Nonviolence in the Search for Workers’ Rights.” The film will be screened at the event, followed by a discussion. Afterwards, Wong will discuss nonviolent organizing and labor education. The event concludes with a conversation about the state of labor and labor unions in the Pacific Northwest which will include commentary by local labor leaders. Organized labor has enjoyed a resurgence in the last few years. A report from the National Labor Relations Board showed that union election petitions increased 57% in the first half of fiscal year 2022. “The economic crash in 2008 and then the pandemic really started to change how people thought about work,” said Miller. “It shifted away from seeing the economy as a vehicle that allowed Americans to experience success toward an antagonistic relationship that is at odds with our well-being and our liberty.” The event is free and open to the public, but registration is required. Written by Eric Wilson-Edge Campus events Community partnerships School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Social and Historical Studies Recent news Making a Connection UW Tacoma senior Leticia Barreto embraced campus life and opened up a world of opportunities. Gold Star spouse McClintock keynotes remembrance ceremony Alexandra McClintock, '22, will speak at UW Tacoma's 2022 Memorial Day Remembrance ceremony. Her husband, SFC Matthew McClintock, was killed in 2016 while serving in Afghanistan. Completing These Certificates Changed My Life Diane Lyons, '16, reinvented herself through certificate programs with the UW Tacoma Professional Development Center. More Recent News UW Tacoma in the News Secrets of Success: 2022 South Sound Business writers Madison Miller, Blake Peterson, John Stearns, Stephanie Quiroz, and Hailee Wickersham interview successful South Sound professionals to discover how they overcame personal challenges and obstacles to achieve success. South Sound Business - Online Edition - April 25, 2022 Economic and policy experts argue against repealing the capital gains tax Nine economic and policy experts, including UW Tacoma's Katie Baird, Anna Lovasz and Tim Scharks, call on voters to reject I-1929, which would repeal the capital gains tax established by the legislature in 2021. Washington State Wire - April 18, 2022 Inslee appoints Jon Scott to Snohomish County Superior Court Jon Scott, '96, most recently served as a senior trial attorney with the Snohomish County Public Defender Association. Washington Governor Jay Inslee News - April 15, 2022 More UW Tacoma in the News Contact News & Information email uwtnews@uw.edu phone_iphone 123-456-7890 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy