COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW EIT Corrective Action Strategy Section Menu Accessibility at Wichita State University The Accessibility Committee Accessibility Report 2020 Accessibility For Face To Face Instruction Accessibility for Online Instruction Accessibility Training WSU Technology Audit Request Form EIT Corrective Action Strategy WSU Technology Corrective Action Strategy PDFs At WSU Looking Ahead Report an Accessibility Problem Resources and Links Faculty Senate Statement on Accessibility Accessibility Exceptions Is this Accessible? Accessibility FAQ Aira Access Accessible Publisher Software Accessibility Review Requests Aira Access at Wichita State Accessibility and Covid-19 Accessibility Report 2020 Instructor Accessibility Checklist EIT Corrective Action Strategy Details updated 04/07/2022 This page provides some detailed information on the items that were reviewed in the Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) audit, the remediation that is planned, and the planned completion date for the remediation. The information is organized by the owner or responsible party for that particular tool. Technology Audit Rubric (multi-page google form). This is a link to the audit questions/criteria that were used, which were based on a mix of WCAG and ADA standards Accessible Publisher Software - Lists the publisher software and instructional tools that have been reviewed for accessibiltiy already, and whether or not they meet accessibility standards. Status notes: Ongoing projects are projects that will need to be addressed on a continual basis, and will never be able to be marked "complete". In Process projects are projects that have not yet been completed. Ablah Library Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status Piktochart This tool is inaccessible to students with low or no vision, and students that depend on a keyboard for navigation Piktochart is no longer being used for instruction. When it is used for other purposes, information is available in equally effective, alternative formats. Users who find an informational graphic whose infromation is not accessible to them in another format should complete the Report an Accessibility Problem form. February 2018 July 1, 2018 Completed Ask a Librarian Only minor problems were identified, such as the use of the color green as a means of conveying information. Accessibility issues have been addressed, and the tool is now accessible. February 2018 February 1, 2018 Completed LibGuides There were some issues. Most of what we're seeing here is a lack of alt tags and a lack of alternative delivery for information conveyed through graphics. Additionally, there are some limited keyboard navigation concerns and some of the multimedia is not fully accessible. The University Library offers training on alternative text for images for content creators. The University Library contacted the vendor, Springshare, to request accessibility adjustments. Creators have been/are trained in optimal accessibility procedures in LibGuides, particularly in alt text, but also in other tools to avoid for full keyboard navigation. An annual review of content in LibGuides looks for accessibility issues that have inadvertently been added, like missing alt text or the use of inaccessible features of the tool. February 2018 July 2020 Completed EndNote EndNote is entirely inaccessible to a low- or no-vision user and to users that require keyboard navigation Library staff reviewed many other products in the marketplace and have not been able to find a more accessible product. Products tested include: Citavi, JabRef, Mendeley, RefWorks, Wikindx, Zotero and EndNote Online. Library staff has been in touch with Clarivate, the vendor that produces EndNote. In separate conversations in June of 2018 and April of 2020. At those times, the Library was told that the requests were sent to the development team for review and later development. University Libraries staff will provide assistance for users who can't use Endnote to create citations. Citations will be exported in an accessible file as appropriate in fulfillment of research assignments and for future reference. Students can request this help from the library support desk. February 2018 July 1, 2018 Completed Padlet Padlet can incorporate third party content such as YouTube and Vimeo content, and documents. However, these options leave accessibility up to the creator, which can create accessibility issues. Additionally, it is difficult to navigate Padlet with a keyboard and there are some issues with alternative tagging. Padlet is no longer in use by the University LIbrary. February 2018 Completed Completed EDS Smart Search Most of the accessibility concerns found in Smart Search are due to content provided by outside sources, such as captions, alt tags, etc. However, it is difficult to navigate with a keyboard and there are some issues with alternative tagging. This product is no longer in use. Product subscription cancelled in August, 2019. Replaced by Summon discovery service (see below). February 2018 July 1, 2018 Discontinued / Completed LibCal There are concerns with the use of color to denote available and unavailable rooms. The University Library contacted the vendor, Springshare, and request adjustments to improve accessibility. Training is being conducted with library staff and faculty to ensure that LibCal content is accessible. 3/6/2018 Migrated to Equipment and Spaces module in LibCal and selected colors that would work for a variety of color blindness. 04/03/2020 Vendor has added patterns where color was once the only means of conveying information. We configured it that same week. The University Library conducts an annual review of content in LibCal to look for missing AltText and other accessibility issues. February 2018 July 2020 Completed Library Databases (170+) The databases have a variety of accessibility issues, including uncaptioned video or untranscripted audio, and problems with keyboard navigation. To address inaccessibility of searched content, the UL reached out to database vendors to request that they add alternative descriptions, captions, etc., and to ensure their sites are navigable via keyboard. All vendors have been contacted multiple times. For any database with usage tips from the vendor, University Libraries have created a link to that information on our A-Z Databases List. Other databases link to vendor accessibility information that was available like VPATs. Inaccessible materials can be digitized or enhanced digitally. In many cases this can be facilitated through an agreement with the HathiTrust Digital Library. Otherwise there is a Kic Scanner available in Ablah Library and library staff can assist as needed to digitize to PDF or MP4. To address barriers to accessibility, faculty should contact the University Libraries to obtain audio versions of text or improved OCR’d PDFs. In cases where the platform itself is inaccessible, librarians or faculty assist users as necessary in gathering materials. Many platforms, however, are navigable by keyboard and continuing to improve. The biggest issues are with specialized databases for which no alternative is available. February 2018 July 2020 Ongoing Summon Smart Search As with EDS Smart Search, most of the accessibility concerns found in Summon are due to content provided by outside sources, such as captions, alt tags, etc. The platform itself, however, is easier to navigate with a keyboard and screen reader. It still has minor usability barriers, like the advanced filtering options under "More..." have the apply link at the top, above the filter settings; also the button to clear a search bar calls itself "M". The filters and buttons are all functional. Use of EDS was eliminated in favor of the more accessible Summon. This platform still has some inaccessible components, like the date widget in advanced search, but there are other means of filtering by date. There are no keyboard traps, but the platform is not intuitive for non-visual users. University Libraries has created a usage tips link for screen reader users for this platform, including contact information for support. Inaccessible materials can be digitized or enhanced digitally. In many cases this can be facilitated through an agreement with the HathiTrust Digital Library. Otherwise there is a Kic Scanner available in Ablah Library and library staff can assist as needed to digitize to PDF or MP4. Users have online chat available and a link to the comments and suggestions form on the Summon search pages and search results page. Additionally there is a linked usage tips page that has the contact information for the University Libraries’ accessibility expert. August 2019 July 2020 Ongoing College of Fine Arts Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status OnMusic (Appreciation and Jazz) There are some accessibility concerns including the lack of sufficient keyboard navigation, the lack of transcripts for music with lyrics, the somewhat complicated organization of module content, and the auto-updating image banners. The College of Fine Arts will contact the vendor to discuss accessibility concerns, including a lack of transcripts and keyboard navigation and dynamic content. If the vendor cannot ensure that accessibility concerns will be remediated, the College of Fine Arts and the instructor using this software will work with the Instructional Design and Access (IDA) department to produce content for this course that is accessible. Representatives in the music department have contacted the vendor representative and discussed WSU's need for fully accessible platforms. The vendor stated they are continually working towards that goal and in the process of preparing a VPAT. Sep. 2019: A VPAT has been created by and acquired from the vendor, detailing several accessiblity issues within the software. Pursuant to University Policy 8.11, Instructional staff who need to use an inaccessible publisher tool need to request an exception, following the standards and processes for that procedure. For more information, visit the Accessiblity Exceptions page. Students who need accommodations because of the accessibility issues of those tools should register with the Office of Disability Services to ensure that they receive appropriate acommodations. February 2018 July 2020 In Process College of Health Professions Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status Navigate Scenario There were a multitude of accessibility concerns that may warrant that we not move forward with this tool until many changes have been made to it. Identify Navigate Scenario Users in the CHP. Once identified, Faculty Users will work Instructional Design and Accessibility (IDA) to move that content into a delivery platform that is accessible by December 31, 2018. As of December 2018, no active users have been identified in Navigate Scenario. As of July 2020 CHP has received no new requests from instructors to use Navigate Scenario. If an instructor requests this software in the future, CHP will contact IDA to ensure content is delivered in an accessible platform. February 2018 December 31, 2018 Completed Department of Dental Hygiene Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status Dental Software (EagleSoft, Lexicomp) Problem areas include information conveyed through imagery and color alone, lack of keyboard navigation, and lack of captions for videos. College of Health Professions(CHP) and Instructional Design and Access (IDA) will work together to ensure that these tools are accessible to users who have the ability to meet the technical standards of the program by December 31, 2018. Eaglesoft is being discontinued in favor of browser-based software. Update (Nov. 2020): Eaglesoft 20 software will continue to be used and is fully accessible to users who have the ability to meet the technical standards of the Dental Hygiene program, which were last updated Sep. 28, 2019. If a user who meets the technical standards of the program discovers an accessibility issue interfering with their ability to use the software, they should notify their instructor and/or clinic manager, who will consult with IDA. February 2018 December 31, 2018 Completed Dental Equipment (chairs, x-rays, lights, etc.) There are obvious concerns regarding the accessibility of dental equipment for low-vision or no-vision users, or to users with physical limitations. Buttons must be operable by sight for safety. CHP and IDA will work together to ensure accessibility to users who have the ability to meet the technical standards of the program by December 31, 2018. CHP Technical standards were all reviewed and updated during the 2017-18 academic year, and will be reviewed and updated every three years. CHP Dental Hygiene Technical Standards were last reviewed and updated Sept. 28, 2019. If a user who meets the technical standards of the program discovers an accessibility issue interfering with their ability to use the dental equipment, they should notify their instructor and/or clinic manager, who will consult with IDA. February 2018 December 31, 2018 Completed Department of Nursing Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status SoftChalk Accessibility concerns include keyboard navigation, keyboard traps, a lack of alt tags--specifically for infographics, etc. Faculty using Softchalk will work with Instructional Design and Accessibility (IDA) to move that content into a delivery platform that is accessible by December 31, 2018. As of December 2018, Softchalk was no longer being used in CHP. Blackboard is being used in place of SoftChalk. Blackboard users who find a document that is not accessible to them and that needs remediation should complete the Report an Accessibility Problem form. February 2018 December 31, 2018 Completed Global Global projects are being coordinated by the Media Resources Center, but are used across campus. Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status YouTube Like the Blackboard LMS, YouTube itself offers many accessibility features. However, this does not account for choices made on the part of the creator uploading videos or the instructor using videos in their class. That said, there are some weak spots in the YouTube interface such as the failure to support multiple audio tracks on videos, which eliminates the ability to provide a separate audio descriptive track. Content in YouTube can be made fully accessible, with exceptions dependent on the platform itself. Training is provided in created in making YouTube media fully presentable and disseminated to all instructional staff and faculty. If a user discovers a WSU-produced video on Youtube that does not have captions, or requires improved accommodation in other ways, the user can submit a request via the Report an Accessibiltiy Problem form. February 2018 July 2020 Ongoing Microsoft Office Products These products are largely accessible on their own. These products are robust but offer opportunities for users to create inaccessible content independently. Content in Microsoft Office can be made fully accessible, with exceptions dependent on the platform itself. Proper training has been provided to make Microsoft Office documents fully presentable. If a user discovers a WSU-produced resource that requires improved accommodation, the user can submit a request via the Report an Accessibiltiy Problem form. February 2018 July 2020 Ongoing Vimeo Vimeo is a sleek and seemingly powerful tool. Although there are a lot of forward thinking accessibility steps taken in the creation of this tool, there are accessibility concerns. These include the lack of auto-captioning, the lack of transcripts or separate audio tracks. The use of Vimeo has been discontinued at Wichita State University and will not be supported. February 2018 February 2020 Discontinued / Completed Prezi Prezi is almost entirely inaccessible to low or no vision users. Audio plays automatically, images don't contain alt tags, etc. Prezi is not an accessible tool. Prezi's developers have stated that they do not have plans to make the program fully accessible and so WSU will not support the use of Prezi. February 2018 Immediately Completed PaperCut There are no major accessibility concerns with PapeCut. The PaperCut vendor has been contacted and will provide us the most accessible version of their tools. February 2018 July 2020 Completed Google Forms There are only slight accessibility problems, such as the lack of alternative tags. Nevertheless, there are existing tools in the program to correct these issues. There are opportunities for creators to include elements in these Forms that are inaccessible. The use of Google Forms has been discontinued at Wichita State University and will not be supported. If a user discovers a WSU-produced resource that requires improved accommodation, the user can submit a request via the Report an Accessibiltiy Problem form. February 2018 February 2020 Discontinued / Completed Information Technology Services Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status Technology HelpDesk (Website) Accessibility concerns include common problems such as a lack of fully functional keyboard navigation and alt tags. Will redesign once our new portal is launched and the content is migrated to OmniUpdate's OU Campus. This is now generated by the new OmniUpdate content management system. Users who find issues with the new HelpDesk web site can call the helpdesk phone line (978-HELP) as an alternative to web-based help. February 2018 July 2020 Completed WSU Spanish Placement Exam This placement exam is fully inaccessible to users that are limited to keyboard navigation. This appears to be the only major area of concern. ITS is working with the vendor to improve the accessibility of this tool. No alternative tool has been found. In the event of a student who needs to take the placement exam who has needs that are not met by the current platform, those students will take the exam in an alternative format with support from the Office of Disability Services. February 2018 July 2020 Ongoing ShockerAlert Contact Info This is one of the more straightforward and simple tools we've looked at. There do not appear to be any significant accessibility errors to address. Shocker Alert contains multiple products. Specifically the email/text message notifications come from a product called Rave which does have a web portal. Rave also provides a mobile app called Guardian. On all WSU owned, domain joined computers, we have deployed Alertus to integrate with Rave to show all alerts full screen. The university will monitor updates from both software vendors and work to communicate to them the need for ADA compliance requirements. As these alerts come to users on their devices of choice, in a variety of formats, the variety of different user needs and preferences for getting those alerts can be met. February 2018 July 2020 Completed Student Pending Grades There are no accessibility issues to address with Student Pending Grades. ITS will continue to monitor and make adjustments as need. February 2018 Fall 2018 Completed SHaRP ID There are potential accessibility concerns regarding the required use of a mouse roll over to activate a field. This feature has been updated to provide the information in an accessible way. February 2018 Fall 2018 Completed Demographic Verification/Address Change The only accessibility concern is the keyboard. The demographic Verification/Address change tool has been retired. The current process is accessible. February 2018 July 2020 Completed ArcGIS Request There are no accessibility concerns. ITS will continue to monitor and make adjustments as needed. February 2018 July 2020 Completed / Ongoing Directory Services Some images in Directory Services are missing alternative text. These issues have been corrected February 2018 Fall 2018 Completed FERPA Online Training There are some accessibility concerns regarding the keyboard navigation. ITS will work to make the corrections to make the application more ADA compliant. February 2018 Fall 2018 Completed Media Resources Center Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status Brainshark Accessibility concerns include the lack of keyboard navigation, inconsistent design schemes between formats/locations of presentations, and the failure to notify users when they are skipping past Brainshark presentations with testable elements. The use of Brainshark is being limited and alternative access to content provided in brainshark is provided within the tool. Students who find a resource that is not accessible to them and that need remediation should complete the Report an Accessibility Problem form. February 2018 July 2020 Completed Informational Touchscreen (Media Resources Center) There are many accessibility concerns based upon the very nature of the product. The Aira app has been implemented at Wichita State University as of November 2019 as an alternate, accessible means of providing room schedule (small touchscreens), location & navigation information (large touchscreens). However, other alternatives, including tactile building maps, are still being explored. Users can find out about Aira, contact disability services, or report their issue in Report an Accessibility Problem form. February 2018 July 2020 Ongoing Ilos Video There are several accessibility concerns with this tool The use of Ilos has been discontinued at Wichita State University and will not be supported. February 2018 July 2020 Discontinued / Completed Panopto Accessibility concerns include the inability to provide accurate closed captioning and transcripts, as well as the inability to provide audio description 2020 VPAT update: Accessibility concerns include a few links with insufficient contrast. Content in Panopto can be made fully accessible, with exceptions dependent on the platform itself. Proper training will be created in making Panopto media fully presentable and disseminated to all instructional staff and faculty. Users who find a document that is not accessible to them and that need remediation should complete the Report an Accessibility Problem form. February 2018 July 2020 Ongoing Office of International Education Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status International Student Lab Tools (Talk Write, Wichita Map, IELC Lab, etc.) There are a few accessibility issues such as video/audio without transcripts, a lack of keyboard navigation, missing alt text, etc. Tools used by the International Education lab are created and programmed in-house. Accessibility concerns in associated programs, including IELC Lab, Talk Write, and Wichita Maps are already being remediated. Further fixes will be made or older programs will be discontinued if they cannot be made fully accessible. The following in-house and 3rd party softwares have been discontinued due to accessibility issues: Grammar 3D, TalkWrite, Grammar Express, Dialogs, Fixes, Bedford Handbook, Wichita Map, Grammar Mastery, Oxford Dictionary. The remaining software systems will be fully accessbile by the end of July 2020. Update April 2022: All applications in use are fully accessible. Users who detect an accessibility issue within the tools can report it directly to the IELC Learning Laboratory Coordinator by clicking on the "Accessibility" link in the footer. February 2018 July 2020 Ongoing Office of Online Learning Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status Blackboard Learn 9.1.201510.1176878 On the design level, Blackboard appears to be largely free of any major accessibility issues. Additionally, when looking at documents such as the independent WCAG audit that Blackboard conducted on Learn 9.1, current issues do appear to be noted by the company and the indication is that Blackboard will be addressing these in the future. On the Blackboard side of things, issues are minor, such as the inability to provide descriptive alt text for course banners. The main accessibility concerns in the use of Blackboard lie mostly in user error. While Blackboard does provide the tools for all content to be largely accessible, users/creators working with Blackboard can easily bypass these measures to produce content that is inaccessible. Content in Blackboard can be made fully accessible, with exceptions dependent on the platform itself. Instructors are provided training on how to make content in Blackboard that meets accessibility standards. The Blackboard Ally tool provides additional guidance and support for faculty, and can produce alternative versiosn of content for students on the fly. Users who find a document that is not accessible to them and that need remediation should complete the Report an Accessibility Problem form. February 2018 July 2020 Ongoing Office of the Registrar Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status Online Course Catalog There are no major accessibility concerns. Templates and documents have been updated to ensure they are accessible, and are reviewed annualy to ensure that this is always the case. February 2018 June 2018 Completed OneStop (Student Support) Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status OneStop There are minor accessibility issues such as missing alt tags, hyperlinks that are not properly self-described, and the lack of keyboard navigation in a few key areas. The OneStop team will work with Blackboard, knowledge base content providers, and the university Web team to ensure the accessibility of OneStop tools and content by December 31, 2018. Internal improvements have been made to OneStop knowledge base articles. A re-review of these materials will be conducted to ensure all accessibility concerns have been addressed. Users who find a page that is not accessible to them and that need remediation should complete the Report an Accessibility Problem form. February 2018 December 31, 2018 Completed Rhatigan Student Center (RSC) Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status Automated Teller Machine (various institutions) Although the ATMs have a significant number of accessibility features in place, there are limitations for users that may not have a full range of motion or the ability to operate biometric controls. The appropriate banking institution will be contacted to ensure that the university is offering the most accessible hardware and software possible. Users who are not able to access the products of a particular ATM can usually access alterntives through other ATMS or the on presmise bank . The university's Aira Access service makes it possible for users to access free visual assistant support to use resources that they cannot access on their own. February 2018 July 2020 Ongoing School of Nursing Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status Nursing Interactive Tools (beds, medstation, manikins, simulators, etc.) These tools provide physical training and do not have digital equivalents. They present several areas of concern regarding low- and no-vision user, information conveyed through imagery, operable controls outside certain spatial planes, etc. The College of Health Professions (CHP) and the office of Instructional Design and Access (IDA) will work together to ensure accessibility to users who have the ability to meet the technical standards of the program by December 31, 2018. CHP Technical standards were all reviewed and updated during the 2017-18 academic year, and will be reviewed and updated every three years. CHP School of Nursing Technical Standards were reviewed and updated on Dec. 03, 2019. If a user who meets the technical standards of the program discovers an accessibility issue interfering with their ability to use the tool, they should notify their instructor, who will consult with IDA. February 2018 December 31, 2018 Completed Rhatigan Student Center Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status Vending Machine (food and beverage, different vendors) Accessibility concerns include the inability to see menu buttons or access the money slot. Contract Renewals: The university will write any future RFP's with the requirement that vending machines provided be the most accessible according to ADA standards. -The university is contacting our vendors to request Voluntary Product Accessibility Templates (VPAT) from the manufacturers. -Note that there continues to be alternative access to foods and beverages through a variety of retail outlets on campus. -Braille and large text versions of the regular menu for Shocker Grill and Lanes have been created but need regular revisions. Some of the menus have simple text versions online, but currently not all. Users who are not able to access the products of a particular vending machine can usually access alterntives through RSC shops, etc. The university's Aira Access service makes it possible for users to access free visual assistant support to use resources that they cannot access on their own. February 2018 July 2020 Completed Telecommunications (ITS) Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status Avaya Phone System There are no major accessibility issues. -WSU ITS Telecommunications will deploy Aura Messaging on January 31st, 2018. Aura Messaging offers the AUDIX Telephone User Interface to callers, which supports different methods of access including TTY. WSU ITS Telecommunications will evaluate current Auto-attendant scripts to meet the accessibility standards by July 31st, 2018. -WSU ITS Telecommunications procures and deploys only phone hardware that have Controls and Keys that are tactilely discernible. ITS Telecommunications will work with departments to identify legacy phone equipment that does not meet these standards, and provide appropriate replacement recommendation by July 31st, 2018. WSU Telecommunications can only make replacement recommendations as Telecommunications endpoints are owned by the using departments. During ITS Telecommunication's evaluation of future feature/system enhancements must meet the above requirements before deployment. -WSU ITS Telecommunications will research Avaya Universal Access Phone Status software as a possible solution to meet potential color contrast issues by July 31st, 2018. February 2018 July 31, 2018 Completed The Sunflower Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status The Sunflower There are many accessibility issues, including the lack of captions, alt tags, and workable keyboard navigation The Sunflower is taking steps to implement changes to address the audit findings. The Sunflower has created a new position that that will ensure that the Sunflower website is compliant and accessible. The Sunflower is instructing the digital editor to begin checking new content added to the site. The Sunflower's web service, School Newspapers Online, has addressed keyboard navigation. Contributors have been trained to add thorough web captions and alternative text to images, and the digital managing editor has been trained to check for these before content is published. Although the Sunflower is a separate entity, not controlled by the university, the accessibility team met with the Sunflower editorial team, and the Sunflower team agreed to ensure that their site is as accessible as they can make it. Users who discover accessibility problems that interfere with their ability to use the site should contact the Sunflower directly. February 2018 Fall 2018 Completed Various Departments Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status McGraw-Hill Connect (Note: Connect Psychology was provided by the publisher for review.) Accessibility problems include screen reader support, lack of alt tags and information images, keyboard navigation problems, and interactive areas that require drag and drop, and the heavy use of Flash. April 2022: Connect platform is greatly improved with varying accessibility issues dependant upon the subject. Proper training has been developed to educate instructional staff and faculty on how to speak to their vendor representatives about the accessibility of their products, including what specific components of their platforms are accessible/inaccessible and procuring sufficient VPATs Instructional staff who need to use an inaccessible publisher tool need to request an exception, following the standards and processes for that procedure. For more information, visit the Accessiblity Exceptions page. Students who need accommodations because of the accessibility issues of those tools should register with the Office of Disability Services to ensure that they receive appropriate acommodations. February 2018 July 2020 In Process Sapling Accessibilty issues include lack of screen reader support, inaccessibile functionality The accessibility team will work with the departments that are using this software to find a solution that meets accessibility standards. Instructional staff who need to use an inaccessible publisher tool need to request an exception, following the standards and processes for that procedure. For more information, visit the Accessiblity Exceptions page. Students who need accommodations because of the accessibility issues of those tools should register with the Office of Disability Services to ensure that they receive appropriate acommodations. August 2019 July 2020 In Process WebAssign Accessibilty issues include lack of screen reader support, inaccessibile functionality April 2022: platform accessibility is greatly improved; current issues are duplicate ID attributes and loss of information when zoomed on certain pages. The accessibility team will work with the departments that are using this software to find a solution that meets accessibility standards. Instructional staff who need to use an inaccessible publisher tool need to request an exception, following the standards and processes for that procedure. For more information, visit the Accessiblity Exceptions page. Students who need accommodations because of the accessibility issues of those tools should register with the Office of Disability Services to ensure that they receive appropriate acommodations. August 2019 July 2020 In Process Various Departments Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status WileyPlus for Blackboard Note: A specific textbook, provided by the publisher, is being used for this audit. This text is Ireland, Visualizing Human Biology, 4e There are several accessibility issues, including the lack of support for screen readers, lack of adequate alt text, and the use of flash for elements like drag-and-drop. For a list of software that has been evaulated, and what meets our standards and what does not, go to: Accessible Publisher Software April 2022: platform has made many accessibility improvements and has an anticipated remediation date of May 2022 for the remaining issues. Proper training has been developed to educate instructional staff and faculty on how to speak to their vendor representatives about the accessibility of their products, including what specific components of their platforms are accessible/inaccessible and procuring sufficient VPATs. Instructional staff who need to use an inaccessible publisher tool need to request an exception, following the standards and processes for that procedure. For more information, visit the Accessiblity Exceptions page. Students who need accommodations because of the accessibility issues of those tools should register with the Office of Disability Services to ensure that they receive appropriate acommodations. February 2018 July 2020 Ongoing Strat Com/MRC/Department Web Sites Tool Name Accessibility Issues Detected Planned Remediation Notes Start Date Planned Completion Date Status Various department websites (Disability Services, Financial Aid, Student Gov., etc.) Websites generally contain a lack of full keyboard navigation, a lack of images without alternate text, untagged documents, etc Redesign web site in a new, more accessible tempalte. Implement accessibility standards for publishing content within the new content management system. Review web content for accessibility Users who find a document that is not accessible to them and that need remediation should complete the Report an Accessibility Problem form. February 2018 Along website remediation timeline Ongoing; The new design and content management system is largely accessible, and content within the Content Management System largely passes accessibility checks.(As of September 23, 2019 99% of web pages in the main web platform did not contain errors according to automatic accessibility checks.) PDFs linked from the web pages are being addressed through user training and direct mediation by the MRC Web team. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©