We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × Alumni and External Relations About Us Alumni Association Vision and Purpose Board of Directors Member Benefits FAQs Chapters About Chapters Associated Students, Inc. (ASI) Alumni Chapter Black Alumni and Friends Business Alumni Chapter Collins Hospitality Society Huntley Alumni Chapter Latino Professional Alumni Chapter Rose Float Alumni Chapter Urban and Regional Planning Chapter Regional Networks Outstanding Alumni Distinguished Alumni - About the Awards - Alumni Awards Gala - 2019 Recipients - Past Recipients Alumni Spotlight Student Outreach Get Involved Ways to Get Involved - Professor for a Day - Dining with Broncos - Bronco Mentoring Program Events Contact Us 1 2 3 4 5 Alumni Awards Gala You are invited to join us in honoring 10 distinguished alumni for their extraordinary success on April 30, 2022 at 6pm. Watch the videos of this year's honorees Alumni Career Resources Access career center job boards, register for virtual workshops, alumni benefits and more! EXPLORE RESOURCES NOW Zoom Background Downloads Show your CPP Pride. Download your background today! Become a Mentor Volunteer with your alma mater by becoming a mentor today! Learn more Join the CPP Bronco Network! Get involved, stay connected, and volunteer with your alma mater! Learn more about the CPP Bronco Network Previous Next Alumni and External Relations at Cal Poly Pomona Alumni Association Stay connected to the university, network with fellow alumni, and attend special events. JOIN THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION NOW Get Involved Engage with your alma mater, students and alumni by participating in various programs. VIEW ALUMNI PROGRAMS Outstanding Alumni Learn more about the Distinguished Alumni Awards Reception and Alumni Spotlight. LEARN MORE about Outstanding Alumni Upcoming Events Listing of upcoming events for CPP alumni, friends and family VIEW EVENTS Alumni Resources Access to career center job boards, register for virtual workshops, alumni benefits and more! EXPLORE RESOURCES NOW SAFER RETURN Learn more about Cal Poly Pomona's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Safer Return Website Alumni Spotlight Francois Tchoyi '16, history A Heart for Home For Francois Tchoyi, it was a journey of 8,000 miles. That was the distance the then 16-year-old traveled from his home country of Cameroon to play basketball at Besant Hill, a boarding school in Ojai, California. Tchoyi (’16, history) had never lived away from his parents or flown on an airplane. In his community, education was valued but also a luxury: Some children had to forgo school because their parents could not afford to pay. Continue reading about Francois Tchoyi #WeAreCPP Visit our Impact Map to share your Cal Poly Pomona experience and to see how others are creating an impact around the nation. View Impact Map Update Your Information Did you recently move or change your mailing address? Update your information today to stay connected with your alma mater. Update Your Information Now Featured Links Portfolium Impact Map (Class Notes) Alumni Brick Walk PolyAlumni Newsletter Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Give to Cal Poly Pomona Privacy Choice Pace Setters Career Center Contact Us 3801 West Temple Ave. Pomona, CA 91768 866-CPP-ALUM (Toll-Free) or 909-869-2963 909-869-4423 (fax) | alumni@cpp.edu Stay Connected 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers