arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar For You: Families Dean of the College Directory Office of Residential Life Safety and Security DartCard Billing & Paying Tuition Center for Professional Development Mental Health Student Wellness Center Medical Care Dartmouth Together COVID-19 Family Giving and Engagement Resources Image Events Find out what’s happening at Dartmouth while you visit. Orientation Family Weekend Commencement Athletics Image News Stay connected. Dartmouth News is your source for news, stories, and ideas from Dartmouth College. Subscribe to Dartmouth News Speaking of Dartmouth Places We Love Image Explore the Upper Valley The Upper Valley is home to small towns and villages where friendly neighbors gather in all seasons for cultural and recreational opportunities. Swim, sail, paddle, skate, ski, hike, ride, climb—there’s no limit to outdoor adventure. There's lots to do indoors too, in this hub for art, music, theater, dance, fine dining, and much more. Learn more about life in the Upper Valley Hanover Inn Dartmouth New England charm pairs with modern services and amenities to create an unforgettable stay for business and leisure. Located next to the Hopkins Center for the Arts and Hood Museum, the Hanover Inn Dartmouth is the only boutique hotel on the Dartmouth College campus. We offer easy access to the region's most exciting outdoor activities and cultural attractions. Hanover Inn Dartmouth Campus Map Find your way around Dartmouth's 269-acre main campus and beyond. Make your way around Dartmouth Boathouse Located on the banks of the Connecticut River, the Friends of Dartmouth Rowing Boathouse is a classic crew facility, built in 1986. The 11,400 square foot facility was funded by many former oarsmen and women of Dartmouth and their families and friends. Dartmouth Boathouse Moosilauke Ravine Lodge The original Moosilauke Ravine Lodge was raised up in the late 1930s to serve some of the nation’s earliest competitive skiing. Today the Lodge provides a destination for the area and the entire Dartmouth community and the Upper Valley. The Lodge is open to the public for rooms and meals for the spring, summer, and fall! Moosilauke Ravine Lodge Dartmouth Skiway Dartmouth Skiway offers big-mountain challenges in a family-friendly setting with more than 100 ski-able acres spread over two mountains and enough terrain variety to thrill any ski or snowboarding enthusiast. No matter what your skiing style, the Skiway has something fun for everyone: a 968-foot vertical drop, affordable ski tickets, a full-service day lodge, superb grooming, and exciting terrain features. Dartmouth Skiway Ledyard Canoe Club Canoe, kayak, and stand-up paddleboard rentals on the Connecticut River. Ledyard Canoe Club Life Sciences Greenhouse Dartmouth's 6,000-square-foot greenhouse sits atop the Class of 1978 Life Sciences Center. This living botanical museum opened in August 2011, offering resources for research, serving as a classroom for budding botanists and veteran horticulturists, and providing an inviting space for casual visitors. Greenhouse Orozco Mural Located in the Orozco Room in Baker Library, the 24 panels comprising the mural cover nearly 3,200 square feet of wall space. One of Orozco's finest creations and one of Dartmouth's most treasured works, the mural was designated a national historic landmark in 2013. Orozco Murals Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube