Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit How to Apply Your tomorrow starts here. Home Graduate How to Apply More in this section Graduate Find and Compare Programs Master of Science in Finance Curriculum Financial Information Requirements PhD in Organizational Behavior Curriculum Global Executive MBA Curriculum Financial Information Requirements PhD in Marketing Curriculum PhD in Operations Management Curriculum Requirements Phd / MBA Curriculum Financial Information Requirements Accelerated MBA Curriculum Financial Information Requirements Master of Science in Accountancy Curriculum Financial Information Requirements Bachelor of Architecture / MBA Dual Degree Curriculum Financial Information Requirements Master of Science in Business Analytics Curriculum Financial Information Requirements Master of Science in Finance Online Global OneMBA Curriculum Cost of Attendance Requirements Master of Health Administration Curriculum Financial Information Requirements Executive MBA for Health Management and Policy Curriculum Financial Information Requirements Master in International Business Curriculum Financial Information Requirements JD/LLM/MBA Curriculum Financial Information Requirements JD / MBA Dual Degree Curriculum Financial Information Requirements Master of Science in Leadership Curriculum Financial Information Requirements MD / MBA Curriculum Financial Information Requirements PhD in Business - Accounting Curriculum PhD in Business - Economics Curriculum PhD in Business - Finance Curriculum PhD in Business – Management Science Curriculum Professional MBA Curriculum Financial Information Requirements Accelerated MBA in Real Estate Curriculum Financial Information Requirements Advisory Council Impact Investing in Commercial Real Estate Competition News Master of Science in Sustainable Business Curriculum Financial Information Requirements Master of Science in Taxation Curriculum Financial Information Requirements Online MBA Graduate Program Financial Information MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs PhD in Business PhD in Economics Our Students Financing Your Degree Scholarships and Fellowships Financial Aid and Loans Graduate Experience Experiential Learning Graduate Clubs & Organizations Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us On-Campus Graduate Programs Our graduate enrollment advisors are available to guide you through selecting the program and format that best aligns with your career goals. Once you have determined the program that is right for you, the first step is to access and create an account within the BusinessCAS application portal. BusinessCAS Account Visit this link to select your term of interest and begin your application to Miami Herbert Business School. Once you create the account and start the application you may save your information and return to it later. You must use the same login information to apply to any program in BusinessCAS. Please note that it is recommended to use Chrome or Firefox when accessing the BusinessCAS application portal. For the optimum user experience, please visit this link for browser compatibility and other technical requirements. Each graduate program had a specific start date per year so it is important to select the appropriate term of interest when logging into the application portal. If you do not find your program of interest listed on the program selection page, you may need to login again and confirm that you have selected the correct term for your program. Once you have added the program(s) in which you plan to apply, you will continue into the application. Start Your Application Today! Online graduate programs Miami Online MBA The online MBA program offers three start dates per year, and no GMAT scores are required to apply. Applicants who apply by the early priority deadline will receive a waived application fee, receive an admissions decision sooner, and have more time to plan for the future. Scholarships are also available for qualified applicants. Apply to the Miami Online MBA Today! Online Master of Science in Finance Begin your application at UOnline! Deadlines to Consider Miami Herbert's graduate application deadlines vary depending on the program term in which you are applying. Below is an outline of important deadline dates to consider. Deadlines for our Miami Online MBA and Online Master of Science in Finance differ from the deadlines below, please refer to the program's pages for more information. The Fall 2022 application deadline for doctoral programs is January 5. Keep in mind that the application deadline is the date by when you would need to submit your interest by submitting a completed application form. However, certain application materials such as recommendations, test scores (if applicable), and official transcripts may still be submitted after the deadline date and after your application is received. SUMMER 2022 APPLICATION DEADLINES Application Deadline Decision Release Round 1 October 15 November 19 Round 2 December 1 January 7 Round 3 January 15 February 11 Final Round March 15 April 15 FALL 2022 APPLICATION DEADLINES MBA Specialized Masters Application Deadline Decision Release Application Deadline Decision Release Round 1 October 15 November 19 October 15 November 19 Round 2 January 10 February 11 January 3 February 4 Round 3 March 15 April 15 March 8 April 8 Final Round May 15* June 10 May 8* June 3 SPRING 2023 APPLICATION DEADLINES (PENDING) Application Deadline Decision Release Round 1 Round 2 Round 3 Final Round PLEASE NOTE: International Applicant Deadline (*) – Indicates last day to apply for those that do not currently hold an F-1 Visa. Doctoral Programs: The Fall 2022 application deadline for doctoral programs is January 5. Applicants are encouraged to submit early for priority admission and scholarship consideration. Applicants have 10 days from the application deadline to submit all required materials for consideration. Files that are incomplete beyond 10 days of the application deadline will be moved to the next application. Following the final deadline, new applications will be provided rolling admission consideration based on space availability. Application Criteria The University of Miami Herbert Business School welcomes applications from individuals that have earned or are in the process of earning an undergraduate degree from an accredited college or university. The Admission Committee assesses each candidate on a number of dimensions including academic performance and professional leadership experience. We seek students with the intellectual and interpersonal abilities to contribute to the classroom experience, to excel academically, and who possess the leadership potential to succeed. Personal Statement The personal statement is a chance for the admission committee to get to know you, your experience and goals, and what you may bring to the program. A personal statement prompt and supplemental essay prompt are provided within the application to help guide you. Current Resume The resume (or CV) should outline any current and previous professional and academic achievements that you would like the committee to consider. Official Academic Transcripts Unofficial transcripts may be uploaded within the BusinessCAS application in order to expedite the review process. However, official transcripts from all post-secondary attended are required for enrollment. Official GMAT (or GRE) score Many full-time graduate business programs will require a GMAT or GRE score for admission. However, this may be submitted after your application is received. The committee may also consider requests to waive the test requirement on a case-by-case basis. Doctoral Programs do not consider waivers. Programs that do not require the GMAT or GRE include all Executive MBA programs, the Professional MBA, the Master of Science in Leadership, and the Master of International Business. Letters of Recommendation The number of recommendations required may vary depending on the program in which you are applying. You will find this information listed within the Program Materials section of the BusinessCAS application. Recommendations are used as a gauge of your academic and professional achievements and managerial and leadership potential. International Applicant Criteria The following supplemental materials may be required for international candidates. Please review the complete details of these requirements within the Program Materials section and contact your enrollment advisor if you have questions. Academic Evaluation (if applicable) For those with studies completed outside of the United States, it is necessary to provide an official course-by-course evaluation to confirm completion of a degree equivalent to the U.S. bachelor’s and GPA equivalency. The ICAP service by World Education Services (WES), a partner of BusinessCAS, is recommended but evaluations from other NACES member evaluation services are also accepted. English Proficiency and Conditional Admissions International applicants whose native language is not English are required to submit an English language proficiency score report. This requirement may be waived for individuals that have earned a degree in a country where the official language is English. Miami Herbert accepts the following exams: TOEFL - Minimum score of 94 / TOEFL code for the University of Miami is: 5815 IELTS - Minimum score of 7.0 / IELTS code for the University of Miami is: 4861 For specialized master’s programs, candidates that have not achieved the minimum TOEFL or IELTS score and have strong academic performance may be considered for conditional admission. A minimal TOEFL score of 80 or an IELTS score of 6.5 is required to be considered for conditional admission. These students must successfully complete a 4-week Graduate Business English Certificate Course prior to matriculating in the academic program. Click here for more information about the English for Graduate Business English Certificate Course. Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback