COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Department of Biological Sciences In This Section Biological Sciences Home Degrees Directory Facilities Field Station Research Areas UG Resources Grad Resources Scholarships Seminars Contact Us Current Biology Job Openings Stop Video Dr Beck and Barnabas Hawkinson; Undergrad ResearchFull Video The Department of Biological Sciences at Wichita State University offers an exciting educational environment. The faculty are committed to teaching and research. Modern laboratory and classroom facilities provided a backdrop for meaningful interactions between faculty and students. Research and internship opportunities exist for graduate and undergraduate students. Pre-professional training, teacher certification and interdisciplinary programs give students many options in designing their course of study. Degree Directory Facilities Field Station Research UG Resources Grad Resources Scholarships Seminars Graduate Research: Ocean Spray to Tooth Decay Wichita State professor David McDonald and graduate assistant Alisha Prince are trying to change the world, one mouth at a time. The team is teaming up with Ocean Spray to research synergistic properties contained in cranberries and other natural extracts that will, in theory, stop the decay of teeth and provide an alternative to traditional oral health care. Professor Mary Liz Jameson inspires through the eyes of her students Dr. Mary Liz Jameson is an esteemed faculty member of biological sciences. All her students, who have either taken her classes or have done research under her have amazing things to share about her. Graduate Program The Master of Science program is offered under either a research thesis or non-thesis option. Research training is available in microbiology, cell, molecular, endocrine, organismal, reproductive, and environmental biology. Biology Field Station The Biology Field Station is located approximately 35 miles southwest of campus and consists of about 330 acres of native and restored prairie and riparian woodland along a mile reach of the Ninnescah River. This unique habitat offers opportunities for studying restoration and river ecology and general wildlife biology. Current studies include prairie restoration and recovery from overgrazing, the ecology of aquatic invertebrates, behavioral ecology of fitness maximization in the non breeding season for birds, monitoring riparian and prairie bird nesting communities, stopover ecology of long distance Neo-tropical avian migrants, incidence of West Nile virus in birds on the station, and monitoring of fish, amphibian, and reptile population dynamics. For more information, contact the station manager, Dexter Mardis dexter.mardis@wichita.edu or (620) 584-6627 Read more Contact Us Department of Biological Sciences 537 Hubbard Hall Campus Box 26 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0026 Email: biosciences@wichita.edu Ph: 316-978-3111 Fax: 316-978-3772 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©