Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Human Resources Retirement Retirement Medicare Social Security Working at SMU Working at SMU Staff Careers Faculty Careers Temporary Jobs Student Jobs Internal Applicant Get Involved Living In Dallas Benefits & Wellness Benefits & Wellness Health and Other Benefits Wellness Information Learning & Development Learning & Development Total Orientation Process for New Employees On-Demand Learning Professional Development Manager Development Workshops Manager Orientation Enrollment Instructions Cancel Enrollment or Switch Sessions Customized Learning Experiences Consultation FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials Workshop Facilitators HR Training Room Linked-In Learning Courses Manager Lunch and Learn Series SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Continuing Education Credits/Units - Proof of Attendance Reference Library Training Summary Resources Resources New Employee Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Work-Life Resources Manager Resources Retiree Resources Safety at SMU SMU's Mission and Code of Ethics Forms Forms All HR Forms & Resources Benefits Compensation General HR Forms Exiting SMU Performance Review Employee Recognition Talent Acquisition and Management ☰ Human Resources Human Resources Resources New Employee Resources New Employee Resources Overview Staff Faculty Post-Doc Fellows Student Workers At SMU, there are many types of employees; all of which contribute to a connected and thriving University community. Read on to learn about how each uniquely contributes and the forms, tools, and resources commonly accessed during an employee's first few months at the University. Access the tabs at the top of this page to review the requirements for your employee classification. In addition, check the new employee resources listed below for additional information. Additional Resources List of Acceptable Documents for Completing the Form I-9 Get Involved at SMU SMU Parking & ID Card Services DART Rail Pass Payroll Office Hours and Work Week Regular Staff Staff work primarily in a non-teaching capacity, leading and supporting administrative areas, programs, and schools. The majority of staff work full-time, 37.5 hours per week, whereas a few areas work 40.0 hours per week. In order to be considered full-time, staff must work a minimum of 35 hours per week. Part-time staff must work a minimum of 20.0 hours per week in order to be considered eligible for benefits. In addition, while the majority of staff work 12 months out of the year, some work on a partial-year basis, over 9, 10, or 11 months. Temporary Staff Temporary staff work in a non-teaching capacity, supporting administrative areas, programs, and schools, for a period of one year or less. Similar to regular staff, they may work on a part-time or full-time basis. Temporary staff are not eligible for University benefits. Most temporary staff are hired via Kelly Services (Kelly@SMU). Contact Leigh Wilson, SMU's on-site Kelly@SMU manager, to initiate the temporary staff hiring process. Staff Resources Total Orientation Process Manager Orientation Process Probationary Performance Reviews Professional Development Opportunities Temporary Staff New Employee Packet - For Temps hired on SMU's payroll only. New Faculty Faculty work in a teaching capacity, perform research, and publish scholarly articles, among various other duties. Most faculty have a contract of at least one year in length. For further faculty definitions, see Policy 6.6, Faculty Ranks, Classifications, and Terms of Appointment. New faculty will receive communication directly from HR after receipt of your accepted contract letter from the Dean's Office. For questions or to initiate the SMU onboarding process, new faculty can contact HR directly at NewFaculty@smu.edu or at 214-768-3311. Adjunct Faculty Adjunct Faculty teach on a part-time basis, typically employed by the semester or by the academic year to teach up to one-half load. Adjunct faculty are not eligible for University benefits. Faculty Resources Total Orientation Process Office of the Provost Faculty Senate Adjunct Faculty New Employee Packet Regular (benefit-eligible) Faculty New Employee Packet New Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-Doctoral Fellows participate in and conduct research projects for the University as part of their post-doctoral training; they have limited teaching and/or service requirements. They are employees of SMU, but for classification purposes, they are considered neither faculty nor staff; they have limited University benefits. For further definitions of employment in relation to University benefits, see the Eligibility Page or Policy 9.2, Classifications for Purposes of Employee Benefits. Post-Doctoral Fellows Resources Total Orientation Process Probationary Performance Reviews Student Workers While the primary purpose of students is to acquire an education, SMU is committed to assisting students with the costs of education, including helping them locate employment on and off campus. Students who work on campus are considered employees of the University and are paid through SMU Payroll. Student employees are not eligible for University benefits. For further information about student employment opportunities, visit the Student Employment Office. International Student Workers International student employees have been issued student visas to be full-time students in the U.S. They have specific requirements under which they can work. For further information, visit the International Center FAQs. Student Workers Resources Student Workers New Employee Packet International Student Workers New Employee Packet New Employee Resources Office Hours and Work Week New Employee Checklist Can't find what you need? Email us at smuhr@smu.edu 214-768-3311 Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share