<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Newsroom RSS Browse All Stories Press Releases Social Media Podcasts For the Media …→ Harvard Business School→ Newsroom→ Press Releases Press Releases Faculty Social Media → Social Media Social Media Faculty Social Media Celebrating the Harvard Business School Class of 2022 27 May 2022 →Youtube Videos Social Media Feeds Congratulations to @aliciabarroso (MBA 2021, Section J); @mandigramm (MBA 2021, Section F); @nicolekruijs (MBA 2021, Section C); and the rest of the Class of 2021! @HBSAlumni @hbsalumni @kriti_kg pic.twitter.com/x5ziPFyL3K May 31 2022, 10:08 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow "October 31, 2001. "For the first time in my life, I stepped foot onto a land I did not call my own. To give me a better education, my family immigrated from China to Canada, a country where we knew not a single soul. I still remember the evening we moved into our new home. We could not figure out why children with scary costumes were roaming menacingly around the neighborhood, or worse, knocking on our door and panhandling for candy. We were so scared that we turned off the lights and pretended not to be home. "Twenty years later, you may be surprised when I tell you that my feeling of being a stranger in a strange land has grown stronger than ever. Borders between nations may no longer divide us, but global battle lines are being drawn on issues like gender, ethnicity, socioeconomic, and political beliefs. No matter where I go, the world I see today is barely recognizable from the one I grew up in. "Only this time, armed with an HBS education, I refuse to turn off the lights in my house. I believe our differences are too important to just hide away, I choose to embrace tolerance rather than intolerance, and I will be the change I wish to see in the world." - Keven Wang (MBA 2022) Click the link in our bio to read more student stories from the Asian Affinity Business Association in honor of #AAPIHeritageMonth HBS MBA Admissions @hbsadmissions Be Social Facebook Instagram Snapchat Tumblr Twitter Youtube Nancy M. Williams (MBA 1992) shares how she leveraged CPD career coaching to make a career switch, launch a venture (Auditory Insight) and find true fulfillment in her professional and personal endeavors. "My business has a deeply personal aspect for me: I have a progressive, genetic hearing loss. In addition to wearing powerful hearing aids (I was fitted with my first aid at age 12), I lip-read and use captioning in order to communicate effectively with others." Read her inspiring story via the link in bio. #hbsalumni #careercoach #lifeathbs HBS CPD @hbscpd @perri_smith1 🥳 pic.twitter.com/M08s4lPrpG May 31 2022, 09:32 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow Congratulations to @aliciabarroso (MBA 2021, Section J); @mandigramm (MBA 2021, Section F); @nicolekruijs (MBA 2021, Section C); and the rest of the Class of 2021! @HBSAlumni @hbsalumni @kriti_kg pic.twitter.com/x5ziPFyL3K May 31 2022, 10:08 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow Be Social Facebook Instagram Snapchat Tumblr Twitter Youtube "October 31, 2001. "For the first time in my life, I stepped foot onto a land I did not call my own. To give me a better education, my family immigrated from China to Canada, a country where we knew not a single soul. I still remember the evening we moved into our new home. We could not figure out why children with scary costumes were roaming menacingly around the neighborhood, or worse, knocking on our door and panhandling for candy. We were so scared that we turned off the lights and pretended not to be home. "Twenty years later, you may be surprised when I tell you that my feeling of being a stranger in a strange land has grown stronger than ever. Borders between nations may no longer divide us, but global battle lines are being drawn on issues like gender, ethnicity, socioeconomic, and political beliefs. No matter where I go, the world I see today is barely recognizable from the one I grew up in. "Only this time, armed with an HBS education, I refuse to turn off the lights in my house. I believe our differences are too important to just hide away, I choose to embrace tolerance rather than intolerance, and I will be the change I wish to see in the world." - Keven Wang (MBA 2022) Click the link in our bio to read more student stories from the Asian Affinity Business Association in honor of #AAPIHeritageMonth HBS MBA Admissions @hbsadmissions Nancy M. Williams (MBA 1992) shares how she leveraged CPD career coaching to make a career switch, launch a venture (Auditory Insight) and find true fulfillment in her professional and personal endeavors. "My business has a deeply personal aspect for me: I have a progressive, genetic hearing loss. In addition to wearing powerful hearing aids (I was fitted with my first aid at age 12), I lip-read and use captioning in order to communicate effectively with others." Read her inspiring story via the link in bio. #hbsalumni #careercoach #lifeathbs HBS CPD @hbscpd @perri_smith1 🥳 pic.twitter.com/M08s4lPrpG May 31 2022, 09:32 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow Congratulations to @aliciabarroso (MBA 2021, Section J); @mandigramm (MBA 2021, Section F); @nicolekruijs (MBA 2021, Section C); and the rest of the Class of 2021! @HBSAlumni @hbsalumni @kriti_kg pic.twitter.com/x5ziPFyL3K May 31 2022, 10:08 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow "October 31, 2001. "For the first time in my life, I stepped foot onto a land I did not call my own. To give me a better education, my family immigrated from China to Canada, a country where we knew not a single soul. I still remember the evening we moved into our new home. We could not figure out why children with scary costumes were roaming menacingly around the neighborhood, or worse, knocking on our door and panhandling for candy. We were so scared that we turned off the lights and pretended not to be home. "Twenty years later, you may be surprised when I tell you that my feeling of being a stranger in a strange land has grown stronger than ever. Borders between nations may no longer divide us, but global battle lines are being drawn on issues like gender, ethnicity, socioeconomic, and political beliefs. No matter where I go, the world I see today is barely recognizable from the one I grew up in. "Only this time, armed with an HBS education, I refuse to turn off the lights in my house. I believe our differences are too important to just hide away, I choose to embrace tolerance rather than intolerance, and I will be the change I wish to see in the world." - Keven Wang (MBA 2022) Click the link in our bio to read more student stories from the Asian Affinity Business Association in honor of #AAPIHeritageMonth HBS MBA Admissions @hbsadmissions Be Social Facebook Instagram Snapchat Tumblr Twitter Youtube Social Media Directory Social Media Directory Twitter Harvard Business School Alumni Baker Library Business & Environment Initiative Digital Initiative Executive Education Faculty Accounts Gender Initiative HBS Working Knowledge HBS Online Harvard Business Review (HBR) Health Care Initiative Jobs at HBS MBA Admissions MBA Recruiting Rock Center for Entrepreneurship Social Enterprise Initiative Facebook Harvard Business School Alumni Executive Education Harvard Business Review HBS Working Knowledge HBS Online Instagram Harvard Business School Executive Education HBS Admissions HBS Online Alumni Career & Professional Development Business & Environment Harvard Business Review Youtube Harvard Business School Executive Education Harvard Business Review HBS Online Digital Initiative LinkedIn Harvard Business School Alumni Executive Education Executive Education Participants Friends of Executive Education HBS Online Leadership Fellows Digital Initiative Blogs Career & Professional Development Digital Initiative Faculty HBS Online MBA Admissions MBA Global Experience Office Podcasts After Hours The Capitalist's Dilemma Cold Call Dear HBR IdeaCast Managing the Future of Work Sky Deck Women at Work RSS Executive Education HBS News HBS Working Knowledge ǁ Harvard Business School Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6155 Email: news@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information →Tours Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College