Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES ANTHROPOLOGY BIOLOGICAL ANTHROPOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 BIO A 100 Evolution and Human Behavior (5) I&S/NW Introduction to evolution by natural selection, examining the light it can throw on human biology and behavior in such areas as the nature of sex differences, sexual conflict, and conflict between parents and children. Offered: jointly with BIOL 108. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 100 BIO A 101 Human Biological Diversity: Sports, Movement, and Activity (5) NW Exploration of human biological variation with particular emphasis on physical activities. Introduction to the theory of evolution through natural selection and to basic data science techniques including data collection, analysis, and interpretation. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 101 BIO A 136 Our Inner Primate (5) NW/I&S Nonhuman primates (NHPs) are humans' closest living relatives, though the relationship is complex and ethically fraught. Explores how NHPs have influenced the way humans think about culture, art, music, religion, language, biomedical research, conservation, and the way humans perceive themselves. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 136 BIO A 201 Principles of Biological Anthropology (5) NW Evolution and adaptation of the human species. Evidence from fossil record and living populations of monkeys, apes, and humans. Interrelationships between human physical and cultural variation and environment; role of natural selection in shaping our evolutionary past, present, and future. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 201 BIO A 206 Plagues and Peoples (5) I&S/NW Infectious diseases have shaped human culture, biology, and history, in a remarkable array of ways for different pathogens and different societies. Uncovers why, by considering in turn the biology, demography, and cultural history of epidemics. Students develop a broader understanding of biocultural approaches to human disease. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 206 BIO A 208 Sex and Evolution (5) I&S/NW Addresses the evolution of sexual reproduction and mating behavior, particularly as exhibited by humans. Focuses on concepts such as natural selection, sexual selection, and kin selection. Demonstrates how evolution can inform our understanding of sexual strategies, conflict, and orientation, as well as marriage, parenthood, and mate preferences. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 208 BIO A 269 Special Problems in Biological Anthropology (3-6, max. 12) I&S/NW Explores a specific problem or set of problems in biological anthropology with a focus on understanding how the problem is framed and communicated using different theoretical and methodological frameworks. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 269 BIO A 270 Human and Comparative Anatomy (5) NW Introduction to the primate anatomy. The anatomy is described in detail. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 270 BIO A 300 Evolutionary Biology of Women (5) NW Explores evolutionary influences on human female biological development and physiological expression from puberty through menopause. Applies a biocultural perspective, encompassing ecological and cultural influences, in examining variation in these biological processes and expressions across and within populations. Prerequisite: BIO A 101 or BIO A 201 View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 300 BIO A 344 Applied Biomechanics of Human Movement (5) NW, QSR Explores human motion using the principles of Newtonian mechanics, including kinematics and kinetics of movement. Recommended: high school trigonometry. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 344 BIO A 348 Evolutionary Biology and Human Diversity (5) NW Examines human biological diversity in the context of our primate history with modern evolutionary theory as the framework. Prerequisite: BIO A 201. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 348 BIO A 350 Men's Health across the Lifespan (5) I&S Explores demographic, biological, epidemiological, psychological, sexual, sociological, cultural, and economic perspectives on the health of males. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 350 BIO A 351 Principles of Evolutionary Medicine and Public Health (5) NW Introduces evolutional theory and explores evolutionary causes of health and disease. Considers how natural selection and the legacies of our human, primate, and deeper ancestries have shaped our biology. Topics include mental disorders, aging, cancer, diet, obesity, diabetes, infectious diseases, racism, and health differences between human groups. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 351 BIO A 355 Evolutionary Medicine and Public Health (3) NW Explores evolutionary causes of health and disease. Considers how natural selection and the legacies of our human, primate, mammalian and bacterial ancestries have shaped our biology. Topics include mental disorders, aging, cancer, diet, obesity, diabetes, infectious diseases, racism, and health differences between human groups. Prerequisite: either BIO A 201 or BIOL 180. Offered: jointly with BIOL 385. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 355 BIO A 369 Special Issues in Biological Anthropology (2-6, max. 12) NW Exploration and analysis of a specific issue in biological anthropology with a focus on critical analysis on methodological approaches and theoretical frameworks. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 369 BIO A 370 The Nonhuman Primates (5) NW Origins, major evolutionary trends, and modern taxonomic relationships of the nonhuman primates. Their distribution and habitat in relation to behavioral and morphological adaptations and their status as endangered species. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 370 BIO A 372 Uses and Abuses of Evolutionary Views of Human Behavior (5) I&S/NW Interaction of human behavior and biology as it has been interpreted within an evolutionary framework. Discusses various challenges to Darwinian theory, particularly Lamarckism and creationism. Topics include biological determinism as exemplified by racism, myths of human origins, the clash between biological and cultural determinism, and modern genetics and behavior. Prerequisite: BIO A 201 View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 372 BIO A 382 Human Population Biology (3) NW Explores human fertility and mortality, and their relationships to the size and structure of populations through time. Emphasizes the biological and cultural determinants of these life course events in evolutionary perspective. Introduces the quantitative tools needed to understand these phenomena, including formal demography, epidemiology, and population genetics. Prerequisite: BIO A 201. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 382 BIO A 387 Ecological Perspectives on Environmental Stress, Adaptation, and Health (5) NW How human populations respond to environmental stressors in biological-behavioral terms and the relationship of this adaptational process to health. Nutritional, climatic, and sociocultural stress and associated patterns of birth, disease, and death throughout human history in hunting, gathering, farming, pre-industrial, and industrial societies. Prerequisite: BIO A 201. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 387 BIO A 388 Human Fossils and Evolution (5-) NW First of a two-part series. Evolution of human anatomy and behavior as adaptations to changing environments. Human fossils: their geological context, age, ecological setting used to reconstruct the evolution of our species during the last six million years of earth history. Prerequisite: either BIO A 201 or BIOL 180. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 388 BIO A 389 Human Fossils and Evolution (-5) NW Second of two-part series. Evolution of human anatomy and behavior as adaptations to changing environments. Human fossils: their geological context, age, ecological setting used to reconstruct the evolution of our species during the last six million years of earth history. Prerequisite: BIO A 388. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 389 BIO A 409 Human Sexual Selection (5) NW Application of sexual selection theory to humans. Explores current literature, including research methods, ongoing debates, and relationship between data and theory. Examines topics such as sexual dimorphism, mate choice, intra-sexual contests, sperm competition, sexual conflict, and reproductive outcomes. Prerequisite: BIO A 208. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 409 BIO A 413 Human-Primate Interface: Implications for Disease, Risk, and Conservation (5) NW A multidisciplinary approach to exploring the transmission of pathogens at the human-primate interface. Delves into the challenges of mitigating the impact of primate-borne infectious diseases on public health as well as conserving free-ranging primate populations in the twenty-first century. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 413 BIO A 420 Anthropological Research on Health Disparities (5) I&S Students conduct original research on the social determinates of health disparities in populations residing in King County, Washington. Students gain experience in qualitative research methods, and integrate primary data analysis with information in the published literature on determinants of health. Prerequisite: ANTH 215. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 420 BIO A 423 Social Networks and Health: Biocultural Perspectives (5) I&S Examines the many ways that social interactions positively and negatively influence our health, and vice versa.. Considers why such influences are important to understand, how one measures them, what recent research has shown, and explores how they relate to other health determinants, both biological and cultural. Prerequisite: either STAT 220, STAT 221/CS&SS 221/SOC 221, STAT 311, CS&SS 321/STAT 321/SOC 321, Q SCI 381, or ARCHY 495. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 423 BIO A 450 Biodemography Seminar (5) I&S/NW Introduction to theory, methods, and literature of biodemography. Examines biological mechanisms underlying patterns of aging, mortality, fertility, and population growth and decline. Includes readings from anthropology, sociology, demography, evolutionary biology, molecular biology, and epidemiology. Covers prehistoric, historic, and modern human populations, and non-human model systems. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 450 BIO A 454 Hormones & Behavior (5) NW Bidirectional interactions between human behavior and hormonal responses, with emphasis on stress, biological rhythms, challenge, and arousal. Examination of logistical and ethical issues related to biomarker data collection in anthropological, biodemographic, and epidemiological research. Co-requisite: BIO A 455. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 454 BIO A 455 Laboratory Methods in Hormones & Behavior (3) NW Introduction to the theory and methods of laboratory-based research on human behavior and hormonal responses, with emphasis on stress, reproductive functioning, and prosociality. Covers lab methods for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) and their application in anthropological, biodemographic, and epidemiological research. Co-requisite: BIO A 454. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 455 BIO A 459 Laboratory Methods in Anthropological Genetics (5) NW Introduction to the theory and methods of laboratory-based research in anthropological genetics. Covers laboratory methods for sample collection, DNA extraction, genotyping, analysis, emerging molecular genetics technologies, and their application in anthropological, biodemographic, and epidemiological research. Student design and carry out a laboratory-based project. Prerequisite: BIO A 201. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 459 BIO A 465 Nutritional Anthropology (3) I&S/NW Examines the interrelationships between biomedical, sociocultural, and ecological factors and their influence on the ability of humans to respond to variability in nutritional resources. Topics covered include diet and human evolution, and nutrition-related biobehavioral influences on human growth, development, and disease resistance. Prerequisite: BIO A 201. Offered: jointly with NUTR 465. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 465 BIO A 466 Biological Anthropology Honors Thesis ([1-9]-, max. 18) NW Individual research under the direction of a thesis adviser, culminating in a senior honors thesis. Open only to upper-class students in departmental honors program. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 466 BIO A 468 Human Reproductive Ecology (5) NW/I&S Examines fertility variation within and across human societies. Biocultural and ecological perspectives on male and female reproductive maturation and senescence, female fecundity, birth intervals, parental investment and cooperative breeding. Prerequisite: BIO A 208. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 468 BIO A 469 Special Topics in Biological Anthropology (3-5, max. 15) NW Delineation and analysis of a specific problem or a more general area in biological anthropology. Offered occasionally by visiting or resident faculty. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 469 BIO A 470 Evolution of Human Behavior (5) I&S/NW Key concepts, research strategies, and debates concerning the processes and outcomes of human behavioral evolution. Emphasizes the complementarily of various methods and theories for understanding human biocultural evolution, including behavioral ecology, dual transmission theory, phylogentic analysis, and evolutionary psychology. Prerequisite: BIO A 201. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 470 BIO A 471 Evolutionary Perspectives on Parenting and Childcare (5) NW Examines the use of evolutionary principles to understand variation in parenting and childcare practices in modern, historic, and prehistory human populations. Contextualizes human parenting and childcare adaptations in a broadly comparative and theoretical perspective. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 471 BIO A 473 Biological Adaptability of Human Populations (5) NW Mechanisms enabling humans to maintain homeostasis in extreme environments: high altitude, heat, cold, nutritional deficiency, radiation. Adaptive process operating at levels of physiology, metabolism, and population, including the strategies of fertility and birth spacing. Prerequisite: BIO A 201. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 473 BIO A 475 Environmental Impacts of Small Scale Societies (5) I&S Donald K Grayson Examines the environmental impacts (positive and negative) among prehistoric and historic/ethnographic small-scale (hunter-gatherer and horticultural) societies worldwide, and debates these impacts, within a theoretical framework provided by evolutionary ecology and biogeography. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 475. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 475 BIO A 476 Sociocultural Ecology and Health (3) NW Sociocultural ecology of health/disease, focusing on humans as bioculturally integrated beings and on populations as biocultural units of adaptation. Examples of research on disease, both infectious and chronic, and patterns of morbidity and mortality, infant, maternal, old age, with particular attention to situations of sociocultural changes. Prerequisite: BIO A 201. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 476 BIO A 477 Evolutionary Perspectives on Sex and Gender Roles (3) I&S/NW Critical examination of theories explaining the evolution of sex differences and associated gender roles. Consideration of gender differences in mate preferences, parental investment, subsistence, aggressiveness, and risk-taking. Stresses interactions between biology and culture. Prerequisite: BIO A 201. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 477 BIO A 482 Human Population Genetics (5) NW, QSR Micro-evolutionary changes in human populations. Effects of mutation, selection, inbreeding, gene flow, and genetic drift as causes of evolutionary change. Prerequisite: BIO A 201. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 482 BIO A 483 Human Genetics, Disease, and Culture (5) NW, DIV Considers how genetic and environmental variation influence phenotypes. Heritability and molecular genetic evidence are considered. The influences of contemporary social and environmental contexts, recent history, and evolutionary history on population differences in phenotypes are explored. Examines topics such as race, genetic ancestry, epigenetics, twin studies, ancient DNA, personal genomics, and prenatal genetic selection/engineering. Prerequisite: either BIO A 348, BIO A 351, BIO A 355/BIOL 385, BIO A 372, BIO A 382, or BIO A 482. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 483 BIO A 484 Applied Human Growth and Development (5) NW Examination of cultural, ecological, and evolutionary factors influencing variation in human growth and development from fetal life to adolescence. Quantification of variation in growth and nutritional status using basic computational software and statistical assessment. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 484 BIO A 485 Research in Growth and Development (2, max. 8) NW Focus on topics relating to primate growth and development. Prerequisite: either BIO A 484, BIO A 495, or BIO A 496, any of which may be taken concurrently. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 485 BIO A 486 Primate Socioecology (3) NW Variety of social systems exhibited by nonhuman primates and adaptive significance of these societies; social systems in terms of the present ecology and evolutionary past of the species; the function of communicatory gestures and vocalizations, tradition, kinship, and social roles in maintaining and structuring groups over generations; the relationship among mating systems, foraging strategies, ranging patterns, and ecological separation. Prerequisite: either BIO A 370 or PSYCH 418. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 486 BIO A 487 Human and Comparative Osteology (5) NW Introduction to the vertebrate skeleton. The skeleton is described in detail and various methods of determining age and sex, as well as osteometry and modern statistical methods for handling such data, are presented. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 487 BIO A 488 Primate Evolution (5) NW Major trends in nonhominid primate evolution through the Cenozoic. Discussion of the specimens, geological context, and age of the fossil taxa and their relationship to modern taxa. Practical experience in analyzing fossil material. Prerequisite: BIO A 201. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 488 BIO A 491 Issues in Human Paleontology (5) NW Addresses the relevance of the hominin fossil record in understanding the evolution of our species. Prerequisite: either BIO A 388. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 491 BIO A 495 Growth and Development: Infancy (5) NW Genetic and environmental influences on growth and development from prenatal life through infancy. Includes exploration of methods for assessing development and comparisons of development in non-human primates with human development. Prerequisite: BIO A 370. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 495 BIO A 496 Growth and Development: Adolescence and Reproductive Maturity (5) NW Genetic and environmental influences on growth and development during adolescence. Emphasis on the interaction of biological and social factors in attainment of reproductive maturity. Compares conditions of non-human primates with human conditions. Prerequisite: BIO A 370. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 496 BIO A 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 12) View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 499 BIO A 502 Preceptorial Reading (6) For beginning graduate students who have not had adequate training in the study of primate principles and methods involved in the study of evolution, human genetics, and the evolution of modern populations. Not open to graduate students in the biological anthropology program. Offered: AWS. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 502 BIO A 520 Human Behavioral Ecology (3-5) Principles and methods of evolutionary behavioral ecology, and critical examination of their application to human behavior in such areas as resource utilization, mating, parenting, life history, cooperation, and competition. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 520 BIO A 521 Hominin Evolution (5-) Evolution of hominin anatomy and behavior as adaptations to changing environments. Hominin fossils: their geological context, age, ecological setting used to reconstruct the evolution of our species during the last six million years of earth history. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 521 BIO A 522 Hominin Evolution (-5) P. KRAMER Evolution of hominin anatomy and behavior as adaptations to changing environments. Hominin fossils: their geological context, age, ecological setting used to reconstruct the evolution of our species during the last six million years of earth history. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 522 BIO A 523 Social Networks and Health: Biocultural Perspectives (5) Examines the many ways that social interactions positively and negatively influence our health, and vice versa. Considers why such influences are important to understand, how one measures them, what recent research has shown, and explores how they relate to other health determinants, both biological and cultural Offered: jointly with CS&SS 523. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 523 BIO A 525 Biocultural Research Methods and Study Design (5) Survey of basic conceptual issues in the design of empirical research, with special attention to problems that arise during anthropological fieldwork. Topics include defining data needs, sampling strategies, problems with co-funding, proposal writing, human subjects approval, and basic ethical issues in human biocultural research. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 525 BIO A 526 Quantitative Methods and Modeling for Biocultural Anthropology (5) Surveys the concepts, tools, and methods for developing quantitative models based on underlying biocultural processes. Introduces methods of testing models from observations collected in anthropological field studies. Oriented toward longitudinal research of fertility, mortality, disease dynamics, population genetics, and other biocultural processes. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 526 BIO A 544 Applied Biomechanics of Human Movement (5) Explores human motion using the principles of Newtonian mechanics, including kinematics and kinetics of movement. Recommended: high school trigonometry. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 544 BIO A 550 Skeletal Biology and Prehistoric Demography (5) Composition and structure of calcified tissue. Analytical techniques and their contribution to interpretation of the archaeological record. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 550 BIO A 559 Laboratory Methods in Anthropological Genetics (5) Introduction to the theory and methods of laboratory-based research in anthropological genetics. Covers laboratory methods for sample collection, DNA extraction, genotyping, analysis, emerging molecular genetics technologies, and their application in anthropological, biodemographic, and epidemiological research. Student design and carry out a laboratory-based project. Prerequisite: BIO A 201. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 559 BIO A 568 Human Reproductive Ecology (5) A consideration of the determinants of fertility variation within and among traditional human societies. Biocultural and ecological perspectives on pubertal timing, nuptiality, duration of birth intervals, and reproductive senescence. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 568 BIO A 569 Behavioral Ecology and Demography (5) Demographic analysis relevant to anthropological research on small populations. Use of data collected through local surveys, genealogical methods, and from other sources. Focuses on use of demography to analyze social and biological processes with adaptive and/or cultural-historical significance. Emphasizes theoretical approaches. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 569 BIO A 584 Topics in Ecology and Adaptation (3, max. 9) Seminar dealing with various aspects of ecology and adaptation. Topics vary each quarter. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 584 BIO A 588 Topics in Primate Evolution (3) Emphasis on fossil taxa and their importance in understanding the morphologies and distributions of members of modern taxa. Prerequisite: BIO A 488 and permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 588 BIO A 590 Biological Anthropology Seminar (2, max. 18) Includes presentations by participants and guest lecturers of current literature and ongoing research in topics pertaining to human and nonhuman primate evolution, biology, anatomy, genetics variation, and behavior. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 590 BIO A 591 Issues in Hominin Paleontology (5) Addresses the relevance of the hominin fossil record in understanding the evolution of our species. View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 591 BIO A 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: BIO A 600 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022