Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Current Students UofM Global Degree Pathways Current Students Student Services and Support Learning Support Tutoring Libraries Disability Resources Adult & Returning Students Veterans & Military Students Career Services Internships Register for Courses AdvisingCourse SearchDeadlinesPrior Learning AssessmentRegistration Student Success Online Course IntroSuccess StrategiesSmartStart Technology RequirementsResources Graduation Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Adult & Returning Students For those new or returning to the University of Memphis after an extended period exploring an alternative degree program may reduce cost and accelerate time-to-degree. Read more below and be sure to talk with your advisor about how you might qualify for each of these cost and time-saving opportunities. Prior Learning Assessment & Experiential Learning Credit The University of Memphis recognizes that learning occurs in many places. Therefore, we allow students to earn credit for prior learning by demonstrating college-level knowledge they have gained outside the classroom using a variety of methods known as Prior Learning Assessment (PLA). Hundreds of students each year are awarded Experiential Learning Credit for college-level learning acquired outside the classroom. Learn more about PLA opportunities > Finish Line Program The UofM Finish Line Program targets students who previously attended the University of Memphis and have completed 90 or more credit hours but have regrettably had to abandon their dreams of completing a college degree. Many have demonstrated the ability to be successful in college and are within a single academic year of successful graduation (i.e. 30 hours). Yet the primary reason for withdrawal at 90+ hours is exhausted financial aid and related external situations, such as needing to work full-time to support a family. To qualify for our program, students must: Have 90 or more earned credit hours Have previously attended the University of Memphis but have had a stop-out period of at least one semester (fall or spring) Have an overall and University of Memphis grade point average of at least 2.0 Have a maximum of 30 credit hours remaining Learn more about Finish Line > Additional Adult Student Resources Adult and Commuter Student Services 499 University Street 243 University Center The University of Memphis Phone: 901.678.2644 Fax: 901.678.4894 Email: acss@memphis.edu About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/16/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.