Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Academic Success Center Menu Toggle Search Resources SI Schedule Tutoring Profile Main navigation About Mission & Values Meet the ASC Team Work for the ASC Find Us Academic Coaching & Outreach Meet with a Coach Resources & Worksheets Workshops Meet Our Coaches Supplemental Instruction Tutoring Services Psych 131 Our Mission Mission Statement The Academic Success Center provides opportunities for students to develop skills that promote success, practice leadership, and become self-directed learners through the delivery of centralized, high-quality academic support services that are responsive to the needs of the campus community. Vision The Academic Success Center will connect every Iowa State University student to life-changing learning strategies, tools, and support. Values The work of the ASC is guided by our beliefs in and commitments to: Providing opportunities for students to engage in reflective, self-directed, personalized peer-to-peer learning that leads to developing skills to become life-long learners. Supporting and advocating for student success and retention efforts that are inclusive, accessible, and value difference. Providing consistent, high-quality services using the most efficient methods of delivery possible. Refining and expanding our skills and knowledge to enable us to share our expertise with students, faculty, and staff and serving as a bridge between Academic Affairs and Student Affairs. Valuing wellness and a holistic approach to success. We recognize that wellbeing plays a key role in academic and personal success and consider the student as a whole when engaging to provide support. Programs & Services We offer individualized and group-facilitated experiences through course-specific and general academic assistance such as Academic Coaching, Supplemental Instruction, and Tutoring Services as well as Psych 131, an academic skills course. All of our programs and services are designed to help you learn how to learn and become an independent, self-directed, and self-regulated learner. It's up to you to choose and use those supports that can help you strengthen your learning. Tutoring Services Supplemental Instruction Academic Coaching & Outreach Resources & Worksheets Iowa State University Academic Success Center Dean of Students Office Contact Academic Success Center 1060 Hixson Lied Student Success Center 515-294-6624 success@iastate.edu Hours Academic Year: 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Summer and Breaks: 7:30 am- 4:00 pm Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...