Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information Messages from Dean Frazier Topics Research Publications, Awards, and Other News Columbia Nursing Magazine Coronavirus Updates Columbia Nursing Profiles Diversity and Cultural Affairs Academic Programs Messages from Dean Frazier View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Dean Frazier's Message Honoring National Nurses Week Dean Frazier celebrates 2022 National Nurses Week. Columbia Nursing Processes the Pandemic and Reckons with Racism A letter from Dean Frazier about the Spring 2021 issue of Columbia Nursing magazine. Topic Columbia Nursing Magazine Dean Frazier's Message Honoring National Nurses Week Dean Frazier celebrates National Nurses Week. Dean Frazier's Statement on the Chauvin Trial Verdict Dean Lorraine Frazier's statement on Derek Chauvin's guilty verdict. Topic Diversity and Cultural Affairs Latest News Dean Frazier's Message on Anti-Asian Bias March 10, 2021 Columbia Nursing condemns the violence that has been perpetrated on members of the Asian community. We want our community members who are of Asian descent to know that we stand with you. Topic Coronavirus Updates Nursing Spring Graduation Ceremonies Update February 26, 2021 An update on Columbia Nursing's 2021 commencement ceremony plans. Topic Coronavirus Updates Marking 2020: A Milestone Year November 9, 2020 A letter from Dean Frazier about the Fall 2020 issue of Columbia Nursing magazine. Topic Columbia Nursing Magazine Dean Frazier's Welcome Back Message for the Fall 2020 Semester September 18, 2020 Dean Frazier welcomes back students, faculty, and staff for the Fall 2020 semester. Topic Coronavirus Updates Columbia Nursing Fall 2020 Reopening Plans July 22, 2020 Columbia Nursing's Fall 2020 reopening plan, including specifics regarding the academic calendar, curriculum, health and safety protocols, and more Topic Coronavirus Updates Dean Frazier's Statement on ICE Restrictions on International Students July 10, 2020 Columbia Nursing joins Columbia University President Bollinger in expressing deep dismay regarding new federal rules by US Immigration and Customs Enforcement concerning international student visas. Topic Coronavirus Updates Dean Frazier's Message on Juneteenth June 18, 2020 Dean Lorraine Frazier's message on the commemoration of Juneteenth. Topic Diversity and Cultural Affairs Dean Frazier's Message Denouncing Racism June 1, 2020 It is inherent in nurses, no matter the color of our skin, to be outraged about the injustice, pain, and anguish that African American communities have and are experiencing. Topic Diversity and Cultural Affairs Congratulations Class of 2020 May 19, 2020 Dean Frazier and Associate Dean of Student Affairs Judy Wolfe share a special message and video for the Class of 2020. Topic Coronavirus Updates Nurses Week Message from Dean Frazier May 11, 2020 Dean Lorraine Frazier shares a message about Nurses Week to the Columbia Nursing community. Topic Coronavirus Updates Pages 1 2 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top