COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 & WSU Housing Section Menu Home Apply For Housing Shocker Hall The Flats The Suites Housing Rate Information Prospective Students Parents About Us Employment Opportunities Dining Services Summer Lodging FAQs COVID-19 & WSU Housing Important Information regarding COVID-19 & Housing In the face of the worldwide COVID-19 outbreak, Wichita State University's first priority is the health, safety and well-being of our entire Shocker community. Below you'll find the latest information and answers about the university's wide-ranging response to the pandemic. COVID-19 vaccines are available to all students, faculty and staff at Wichita State. Vaccinations are also available for immediate family members (ages 18 and older) of Wichita State and WSU Tech students, faculty and staff. Wichita State is mandating testing of all students living in and employees working in Housing and Residence Life. Tests were mailed to students and should be completed approximately and mailed in 7 days prior to your Move-in date. If you feel you need to be tested for COVID-19 at any point during the academic year, please visit Student Health or contact your doctor. As more information becomes available, the university will continue to update its COVID-19 website https://www.wichita.edu/covid19news. FAQs regarding Housing during COVID-19 Pandemic The Wichita State Pandemic Team is closely monitoring the COVID-19 situation and making contingency plans. As these plans are made, the FAQ section below will continually be updated. Student Health Services is also continually updating its website with information relevant to the campus community. Thank you for your understanding and flexibility during this time. Will I be required to get the COVID-19 Vaccine before moving onto campus? At this time there is no requirement to have the COVID-19 Vaccine to live on campus. The Kansas Board of Regents would need to put a law into place for this to become a reality. We will update this information as we know more. Is WSU Housing and Residence Life mandating COVID-19 testing? WSU requires COVID-19 testing for all Housing and Residence Life (HRL) residents at the start of the fall semester. Specific information and test kits were emailed out in mid-July. Any required testing will be free to all residents. Do I need to quarantine before coming to campus? Prior to your arrival back to the halls in August, please start watching the KDHE Website (linked in the next sentence). The state of Kansas’ Health Department (KDHE) sometimes requires individuals coming from certain high risk states to quarantine for 14 days upon arrival within the State of Kansas. If you are returning from one that is currently on the Travel Quarantine list, you will need to notify housing so you can quarantine appropriately prior to the start of the Fall semester. Can I have guests in my room/apartment this fall? Yes, residents may have guests in their rooms this academic year. Roommates must still consent to having guests in shared spaces, even if the guest lives in the same buiding. Residents are still responsible for their guests' behavior. What do I do if I think I might have COVID-19? If you recently traveled to an area experiencing a COVID-19 outbreak and feel sick with fever, cough, or difficulty breathing, within 14 days after you left the area, you should: Seek medical care right away. Call ahead before you go to Student Health Services (316-978-4792), doctor’s office or emergency rooms, and tell them about your recent travel and your symptoms. For WSU students, Student Health Services; (316) 978-4792; is open 8-5 Monday through Friday. SHS is not a high complexity lab and cannot test for COVID-19. Student Health Services will be open duirng intercession times. However, they will be closed during the University Shutdown which is from December 18th-January 4th. See the Student Health website for more information. Avoid contact with others. Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing. Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds to avoid spreading the virus to others. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available. Is there an expectation in the HRL Handbook in regards to COVID-19? Yes. The list below are all expectations during the COVID-19 pandemic and failing to follow any of these are not a violation of the code of conduct. However, intentionally putting others health and safety at risks may result in disciplinary charges through the Office of Student Conduct & Community Standards. Additionally, this is a complex, challenging, and fluid situation which continues to evolve rapidly. All information in this statement is subject to change as deemed necessary by Housing and Residence Life in accordance with guidance and recommendations issued by federal, state, and local public health and government officials. Personal Wellness Checks You should check yourselves for one or more of the following symptoms: Temperature greater than 100.4 F/38 C Cough Shortness of breath Difficulty breathing Chills, repeated shaking with chills Muscle pain, headache, sore throat New loss of taste or smell If any of the symptoms above apply to you, we ask that you work with Student Health Services to better determine if you have COVID-19 and develop an Action Plan. Sanitizing/Cleaning and Personal Hygiene The HRL Facilities team will clean all common areas (Laundry, Kitchen, Lounge, Media Spaces, etc) in the residence halls regularly. It is good practice to clean the common areas in your apartment/suite daily. These would include bathrooms, kitchens (if they exist), living rooms, etc. in your apartment/suite. This will allow us to minimize exposure to other suitemates who may be using these areas as well. Hand sanitizer will be provided at Information Desks and departmental gathering spaces as available. If supplies are running low, please let an HRL Staff member know ASAP. It is recommended that you wash your hands regularly. In accordance with State guidelines, Housing and Residence Life at Wichita State University is ensuring that all individuals follow self-isolation/quarantine measures if they are traveling from any of the places listed on the Kansas Department of Health and Environment Travel & Exposure Related Isolation/Quarantine webpage. More details in regards to this can be viewed here. Will students be sharing rooms for the 2021-22 academic year or will all rooms be turned into single occupancy? At this time, we are planning to move forward with shared room spaces. However, we have policies in place so if a student becomes ill, they (and their roommates) will have options for quarantine. Do I need to quarantine myself before moving into campus housing if I’m around someone who traveled to a state on the CDC’s list? For example: My brother travels to Florida and then comes home a few days before I move back in, do I need to quarantine for 14 days before arriving? No, if the people you were around were not in direct contact with COVID-19, you are not considered to be at risk and can move in at your scheduled time. However, the people that traveled would not be able to accompany you to campus for move in. If we decide to cancel our housing contract due to Covid concerns, will we be charged the cancellation fee? There may be a cancellation charges added to your student account, but you have the right to appeal the charges. For more information on the appeal process, please contact housing.wsu@wichita.edu. COVID-19 info WSU COVID bulletins Student Health COVID-19 page Contact Us 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, Kansas 67260 housing.wsu@wichita.edu 316-978-3693 facebook twitter instagram 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©