Skip to main content Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us News & Events Directory Give Contact Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us About Life at McCombs Virtual Tour The McCombs Difference Our Values Facts and Rankings Our History Leadership Diversity Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives DEI Committee Elevate Conference By the Numbers Invest in McCombs A Million for McCombs Capital Campaign Stewardship and Donor Relations Scholars Program FAQ Contact Us Centennial Commencement Keynote Speakers Contact Coronavirus Student Guide AboutDiversity Equity and Inclusion Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion We Make Room for Everyone People are at the heart of what we do at Texas McCombs, and we can only succeed if we support students, faculty, and staff of all backgrounds and life experiences. Quick Links Resources DEI Committee Elevate Conference By the Numbers MCCOMBS IS ON A MISSION Diversity and equity are critical to the advancement of the school's academic mission. Through strategic projects, working groups and initiatives, our goal is to ensure everyone on campus is represented and has a path to success. We've made great strides toward diversity and inclusion in recent years and continue to look for ways to progress. Our Pledge to You Our doors are wide open at McCombs, where our message of ‘You Belong Here’ and the power of alumni connection create seats at every table! Dean Lillian Mills A Steadfast Commitment At McCombs, we are steadfast in our commitment to be business changemakers that are human-centered in all that we do. Consistent with this core philosophy, at McCombs, we are committed to building a diverse, inclusive, and equitable learning and working environments for all students, faculty, and staff by building processes that ensure a culture that embraces a wide range of backgrounds, ideas, and viewpoints. Read our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Plan Meet Our Staff Raji Srinivasan; Associate Dean for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Raji Srinivasan is the first-ever associate dean of diversity and inclusion at the McCombs School of Business. In this position, she spearheads new diversity and inclusion programs and pushes existing ones forward. Her goal is to create a community whose diversity profile reflects the community at large that we serve both in the state of Texas and nationally. In addition, she strives to create a culture of inclusion so that all our community members can bring their full selves to work, to be more effective, fulfilled, and happy. Email Raji Leticia G. Acosta; Director, BBA Outreach & Inclusion Leticia G. Acosta is Director of Outreach and Inclusion in the BBA Program Office. Her portfolio includes direction of Subiendo: The Academy for Rising Leaders; oversight of diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives; and management of the outreach and recruitment team, whose work includes engagement with prospective students and their families, strategy development to recruit a talented and diverse pool of applicants to McCombs, and management of two summer high school programs, McCombs Future Executive Academy (MFEA) and Discover Yourself iN Accounting Majors & Careers (DYNAMC), both designed to recruit a diverse student population for Texas McCombs. Email Leticia Zerina Hamulić; Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion for McCombs Graduate Programs In this newly created role, Zerina is working collaboratively to develop and drive strategic initiatives related to DEI within all MBA, MS and MPA programs. Her focus is on the entirety of the McCombs graduate student life cycle, from admissions to career. Ultimately, her goal is to support our students and staff in continuing to build an environment where every community member is able to be successful and feel supported. Email Zerina Academic Initiatives and Resources Programs & Initiatives Programs & Initiatives We provide many resources through programs and initiatives to create a welcoming, inclusive campus. Find Resources McCombs DEI Committee McCombs DEI Committee The Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Committee helps guide and plan DEI efforts at McCombs. Meet the Committee Telling Our Story A Sense of Belonging To meet hiring demands— and to meet the current moment — McCombs is working to cultivate a more representative student body and faculty. Read the Story Making Better Decisions A new course helps students think about marketing’s role in bias and stereotyping—and how empathy is “corporate America’s secret weapon.” Read the Story Celebrating Pride MBA student leaders in the social and career networking student organization eQual MBAs talk about pronouns, allyship, and living authentically. Read the Story Amplifying Diversity For the second year, McCombs faculty members have been recognized by students for fostering inclusive classrooms. The EY McCombs Amplifier Awards celebrate faculty who provide our students broad and inclusive perspectives that prepare them to lead. Read More Quick Links and Resources University-Wide Programs The Coalition of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Officers Resources on Equity and Anti-Racism Division of Diversity and Community Engagement UT Strategic Plan for Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusivity University Resources for Students Services for Students with Disabilities Gender and Sexuality Center Lactation/Quiet Room Locations Gender Inclusive Restrooms Now Hiring Dean Lillian Mills has committed hiring resources to implement President Hartzell’s approved Provost DEI Strategic Plan. If you know candidates who might be interested in a staff position at Texas McCombs, please encourage them to apply. Let’s Stay in Touch Want to stay connected? Subscribe to our mailing list for the latest news and information from the diversity, equity, and inclusion office at McCombs. Subscribe Now Resources McCombs Online Resources (MOR) Webmail Safety at McCombs Intranet Canvas Tech Support My McCombs What's Happening News Events Big Ideas Research Give Now Get in Touch Contact Marketing, Web, and Communications Faculty Directory Staff Directory Give Now (512) 471-5921 2110 Speedway Austin, TX 78712 Rowling Hall 300 W Martin Luther King Jr Blvd Austin, TX 78712 © 2021 McCombs School of Business, The University of Texas at Austin