Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Move In Resources Welcome to your new Husky home We’re here to connect you and your student with resources and information about moving into campus housing. Our Housing & Food Services has a dedicated Student Services Office (SSO) to help answer any questions that you and your Husky have about housing, dining plans and more. They can be reached by email (hfsinfo@uw.edu) or phone (206-543-4059), or visit them in person weekdays from 8 a.m.–5 p.m. in Lander Hall. In addition to the SSO, each residence hall as a Resident Adviser (RA) on duty at night who can provide immediate help and guidance for your Husky when the front desks are not staffed. They can be reached by phone at 206-543-1000, and encourage residents to save this number on their phones. Quick links Move In Guide Moving Out What to Bring Campus Map Resident Handbook (PDF) Take a 3D Tour Moving in Learn everything you need to know about moving your student into campus housing, including when to arrive, parking and drop off locations, checking in, safety protocols and more. The move in guide also has a helpful list of what to bring, and what not to bring with you. Read the move in guide Moving out We hope your student enjoyed living on campus as much as we enjoyed having them here! As you prepare to move out, learn about the process — including room inspection, packing, how to return your keys and parking permit, and cleaning instructions. Learn about residence hall check out Housing and dining virtual tour Explore our interactive 360° map as you experience West and North campus housing and dining locations. Take the tour Resident handbook From building resources and community standards to information about access, safety and transportation, the Resident Handbook has the information your student needs. Download the handbook Dates and deadlines The Housing and Food Services (HFS) calendar can help you and your students keep track of important dates and deadlines, as well as activities offered on campus. View calendar Work order When you have a lightbulb out or your faucet is leaking, you need to put in a work order to get assistance. Bookmark the work order link now so it’s readily available when the time comes. Submit a work order University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA