Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Theatre (BFA) – Stage Management Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Theatre In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Bachelor of Fine Arts track in Stage Management is offered for students who, upon graduation, plan to pursue a specialized career as a Manager in the entertainment industry including Broadway, Regional Theatre, Touring, Special Events, etc. It provides the student with a thorough foundation in theatre complemented by very structured and intensive career preparation in both the art and the craft of theatrical stage management. Students spend the first year of the curriculum working within the structure of the laboratory classes to gain a thorough understanding of the structure, process, and craft skills. Within the first four semesters, those who qualify receive an assignment on a Stage Management team. The student Stage Managers work with the Faculty Directors to manage the rehearsal through performance process of all Department Productions. Stage Managers also have opportunities to work directly with our partner theatres within Orlando (ex. The Orlando Repertory Theatre) as part of the curriculum thus giving each student practical experience as they build their professional portfolios. The curriculum requires students to become proficient in design, technology, and theatre management through specified coursework. In their advanced course work, student Stage Managers receive a thorough introduction to the collective bargaining agreements within Actor's Equity Association. The program culminates with a professional internship where students are able to apply their education in a real world work environment. While most students choose to enter the workforce following graduation, the BFA is an excellent degree for students who are interested in pursuing graduate studies in all areas of theatre. Work within the BFA program requires energy and dedication; therefore, other part-time study or outside employment is very challenging. BFA standards are high, both for admission and for continuation in the program. Production assignments are regulated to serve the artistic growth of students thus coordinating production experience with class room exploration. Admission Requirements The departmental faculty evaluates students desiring to become BFA Stage Management majors via portfolio reviews and interviews. This should be completed the academic year prior to attending UCF. For complete information visit the audition site online at https://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/study/#theatreundergrad. All BFA students are accepted on a "Provisional" basis their first year. Faculty will evaluate their work and decide whether or not the student may continue the program at the end of the first year. The Stage Management plan of study requires a Fall start for proper course sequencing. Students are not accepted to begin theatre courses in the Spring or Summer semesters. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students must follow the most recent department, internship and school student handbooks which are available at http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources. Students in this major must earn a "C" (2.0) or better or an "S" in each music or theatre course and maintain a 3.0 GPA for all courses required in the major and all courses taken in theatre; must not receive a negative evaluation in a regularly scheduled program review; and must not exhibit chronic unprofessional behavior. Failure to meet these standards will result in probation and/or dismissal from the program. Refer to the SPA Undergraduate Student Handbook- Theatre (http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources) for details on program standards. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of 60 semester hours of courses taken from the UCF Theatre Department. All BFA Stage Management majors are required to participate in Fall and Spring productions and must accept the production positions as assigned. Students must be registered for the appropriate Theatre Participation course in the term in which they participate. Students need not take additional hours to satisfy practicum requirements. Once students have completed their production participation requirements, they may register for a "0" credit participation course to meet departmental registration requirements if they choose. Students may use additional participation credits as electives. The department will accept one credit of Theatre Participation coursework for students transferring into the program. Any additional transfer participation credits will count towards electives. Internships are subject to departmental approval and may not be fulfilled through participating on a UCF theatre production. Courses designated Common Program Prerequisites are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Courses designated General Education Program are taken throughout all four years. Co-op cannot be used in this major. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Actor Understudy Ballet Professor Dramatic Reader Independent Video Producer Motion Picture Director Movie Producer Music Video Producer News Production Supervisor On-Air Director Photography Professor Piano Performance and Pedagogy Professor Radio Producer Radio Television Technical Director Stage Manager Television News Producer Television Newscast Director Television Program Director Theater Company Producer Theatre Professor Video Producer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Theatre (BFA) - Stage Management University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Bachelor of Fine Arts track in Stage Management is offered for students who, upon graduation, plan to pursue a specialized career as a Manager in the entertainment industry including Broadway, Regional Theatre, Touring, Special Events, etc. It provides the student with a thorough foundation in theatre complemented by very structured and intensive career preparation in both the art and the craft of theatrical stage management. Students spend the first year of the curriculum working within the structure of the laboratory classes to gain a thorough understanding of the structure, process, and craft skills. Within the first four semesters, those who qualify receive an assignment on a Stage Management team. The student Stage Managers work with the Faculty Directors to manage the rehearsal through performance process of all Department Productions. Stage Managers also have opportunities to work directly with our partner theatres within Orlando (ex. The Orlando Repertory Theatre) as part of the curriculum thus giving each student practical experience as they build their professional portfolios. The curriculum requires students to become proficient in design, technology, and theatre management through specified coursework. In their advanced course work, student Stage Managers receive a thorough introduction to the collective bargaining agreements within Actor's Equity Association. The program culminates with a professional internship where students are able to apply their education in a real world work environment. While most students choose to enter the workforce following graduation, the BFA is an excellent degree for students who are interested in pursuing graduate studies in all areas of theatre. Work within the BFA program requires energy and dedication; therefore, other part-time study or outside employment is very challenging. BFA standards are high, both for admission and for continuation in the program. Production assignments are regulated to serve the artistic growth of students thus coordinating production experience with class room exploration. Admission Requirements The departmental faculty evaluates students desiring to become BFA Stage Management majors via portfolio reviews and interviews. This should be completed the academic year prior to attending UCF. For complete information visit the audition site online at https://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/study/#theatreundergrad. All BFA students are accepted on a "Provisional" basis their first year. Faculty will evaluate their work and decide whether or not the student may continue the program at the end of the first year. The Stage Management plan of study requires a Fall start for proper course sequencing. Students are not accepted to begin theatre courses in the Spring or Summer semesters. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students must follow the most recent department, internship and school student handbooks which are available at http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources. Students in this major must earn a "C" (2.0) or better or an "S" in each music or theatre course and maintain a 3.0 GPA for all courses required in the major and all courses taken in theatre; must not receive a negative evaluation in a regularly scheduled program review; and must not exhibit chronic unprofessional behavior. Failure to meet these standards will result in probation and/or dismissal from the program. Refer to the SPA Undergraduate Student Handbook- Theatre (http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources) for details on program standards. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of 60 semester hours of courses taken from the UCF Theatre Department. All BFA Stage Management majors are required to participate in Fall and Spring productions and must accept the production positions as assigned. Students must be registered for the appropriate Theatre Participation course in the term in which they participate. Students need not take additional hours to satisfy practicum requirements. Once students have completed their production participation requirements, they may register for a "0" credit participation course to meet departmental registration requirements if they choose. Students may use additional participation credits as electives. The department will accept one credit of Theatre Participation coursework for students transferring into the program. Any additional transfer participation credits will count towards electives. Internships are subject to departmental approval and may not be fulfilled through participating on a UCF theatre production. Courses designated Common Program Prerequisites are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Courses designated General Education Program are taken throughout all four years. Co-op cannot be used in this major. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 19 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: MUT1004 - Fundamentals of Music I (3) TPA2600C - Stage Management: Introduction (3) TPA2220C - Stage Electronics (3) TPA2210L - Stagecraft I Lab (1) TPA2211L - Stagecraft II Lab (1) TPA2000C - Theatre Design Basics (3) TPA1990 - BFA Review I TPA2991 - BFA Review II Complete at least 1 of the following: TPA2211 - Stagecraft II (3) TPA2232C - Costume Construction (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: DAA2000C - Introduction to Theatre Dance (2) TPP4512C - Stage Combat (2) DAA2520C - Tap Dance I (2) DAA2200C - Ballet I (2) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 54 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 48 credits from the following: THE3311 - Theatre History and Dramatic Literature I (3) THE3312 - Theatre History and Dramatic Literature II (3) THE3313 - Theatre History and Dramatic Literature III (3) TPP3310C - Directing for Theatre I (3) TPA4250C - CADD for Theatre (2) TPP3103 - Intermediate Acting (3) TPA4298L - Theatre Participation-Production II (1 - 99) TPA4298L - Theatre Participation-Production II (1 - 99) TPA4298L - Theatre Participation-Production II (1 - 99) TPA4298L - Theatre Participation-Production II (1 - 99) TPA3601C - Stage Management: Techniques (3) TPA4602C - Stage Management: Applications (3) TPA4604C - Stage Management: Professional Practice (3) TPA4400 - Theatre Management (3) TPA3195L - Summer Theatre Studio/Tech/Design I (3) TPA3197L - Summer Theatre Studio/Tech/Design II (3) TPA4401C - Theatre Careers in Production (3) THE4954 - Theatre Exit Critique TPP4940L - Theatre Internship (6) TPA3992 - BFA Review III TPA3995 - Preliminary Portfolio Review Complete at least 1 of the following: TPA3060C - Scenic Design for Theatre I (3) TPA3045C - Costume Design for Theatre I (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: TPA3223C - Lighting Design for Theatre I (3) TPA3265C - Sound Design for Theatre I (3) Grand Total Credits: 73 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida