Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Procurement Surplus and Receiving Information Surplus Property Updated 11/30/2021 Clemson University Receiving and Surplus hours of operation are now 8:00 am to 4:30pm while being Closed between 12-1 for Lunch. Any department desiring to declare University property in its custody as SURPLUS must submit a Declaration of Surplus Property Form (CUBO 206) to Procurement Services. CUBO 206 Form MUST be typed - handwritten CUBO 206 Forms will NOT be accepted. After receiving the Declaration of Surplus Property form, Procurement Services will return a copy of the original with a receipted stamp and the signature of a Procurement official to the originating department. The department should retain this form as authorization to dispose of the items and to delete the items from the movable equipment inventory. If you have further questions, please contact: Surplus Property (surplus@clemson.edu) or call 864-656-2092. Central Receiving Departments are required to inspect all packages before signing the bottom line. Why Inspect a Package? Inspect for damages. Be sure all packages have been received when signing for multiple packages By signing you become liable for the items received, returns for damages after signing will be at the Clemson University department’s cost. If a Package is Damaged: Ask the delivery person to take note of the damages on their receiving forms. This will clear you from any additional costs. If the delivery person refuses to write down the damages, do not accept the package and return the item to the sender. Receiving Equipment or Items that Require Setup: Contact Clemson University Receiving Department — Michael T. Evett with the following information: Receiving department name Clemson University contact person name and phone number Company name where good are purchased from List of items being delivered Approximate delivery date Arrange with Clemson University department personnel to direct unloading of items Arrange with Clemson University moving crew if necessary Arrange with the company to have the necessary personnel to have the items installed or set up. Helpful Tips: Download the 206 form, open it in Adobe, fill it out and click submit. If you have further questions, please contact: Mike, Levis or Myles by calling 864-656-2092. Home Faculty / Staff Home buyWays Portal Procurement Guidelines for Faculty and Staff Procurement Forms & Details P-Card Program Policies and Procedures Training Surplus and Receiving Guidelines Freight Lines Outbound Shipping FAQ Contact Us Related Links Office of the VP for Finance and Operations CUBS Disbursements Taxes Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram