Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Information Science and Technology Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Information Science and Technology Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Information Science and Technology Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Science and Technology Graduate Certificate Study the design, configuration and maintenance of network hardware and servers with the Information Science and Technology Graduate Certificate from Temple's College of Science and Technology. The certificate is designed for working professionals in the information science and technology fields who want to advance their skill sets and further their careers without committing to a master's degree. This 15-credit-hour certificate can be pursued on either a part- or full-time basis with courses taking place on-site at Temple University’s Main Campus in Philadelphia. In this advanced but flexible program, you can take any five of the preapproved courses to earn the Information Science and Technology Graduate Certificate. Your selection of courses will allow you to customize your curriculum to suit your academic and career needs. Graduate students who complete this certificate program may choose to continue on to the MS in Information Science and Technology. Credits from the Information Science and Technology Graduate Certificate can be counted toward the master’s degree, assuming your grades are B’s or higher. Classes & Curriculum In this 15-credit certificate, you choose five courses among the preapproved list to earn your Information Science and Technology Graduate Certificate. Class options include Advanced Database Management Systems, Emerging Technologies, Software Quality Assurance and Testing, and Usability Engineering. See a full list of available courses. Related Graduate Degrees Information Science and Technology MS Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Advisors can assist you with scheduling courses and navigating the certificate program. Tony Hughes is an associate professor and the graduate advisor for the Department of Computer and Information Sciences. Phone: 215-204-7910 Email: anthony.hughes@temple.edu Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-IST-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Information Science and Technology Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info