Skip to main content Toggle navigation College of Forestry Apply Visit Give Directory Search About Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Research Outreach International Diversity, Equity + Inclusion Alumni + Friends MyCoF About Vision Mission Academic Departments Research Forests Elliott State Forest HJ Andrews Forest Meet the College Our Blog Undergraduate Programs Forestry Forest Engineering Natural Resources Renewable Materials Tourism, Recreation + Adventure Leadership Request More Information Graduate Programs Forest Ecosystems and Society Sustainable Forest Management Wood Science Master of Natural Resources Graduate Certificates Major Professors + Advisors Research Our Research Centers, Institutes and Programs Our Facilities Our Forests Outreach Forestry + Natural Resources Extension Ask An Expert Continuing and Professional Education Fire Program Master Woodland Manager Northwest Fire Science Consortium Oregon Master Naturalist Oregon Natural Resources Education Program Oregon Environmental Literacy Program Oregon Wood Innovation Center PNW Agroforestry Working Group Starker Lectures Women Owning Woodlands Wood Magic Our Impact International Opportunities Abroad Visiting Students and Scholars International Partnerships Funding Opportunities Diversity, Equity + Inclusion Alumni + Friends Donate Get Involved Career Support Connect Events OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation MyCoF Faculty/Staff Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Student Services Forestry Degree Program Study here Study at the number one ranked forestry program in the US! Rankings Apply now! Study Forestry Explore our forest management option to create and maintain a healthy forest landscape. Learn more Apply now Previous Next Forestry Degree Foresters play a critical role in managing our natural resources. As a forestry major, you take care of our forests while addressing some of the biggest challenges facing our forest landscapes, ecosystems and communities. Our forestry program is ranked as one of the best in the world. You can choose one of three areas to focus on: forest restoration and fire, forest management or forest operations. And when you graduate, you'll get a job, often with endless opportunities to work outside. You could go on to actively manage forested landscapes to ensure their health, clean water and other ecosystem services. Or you could harvest timber to make products the who world uses and enjoys or become a professional pyromaniac by specializing in fire management. Our degree programs in forestry are accredited by the Society of American Foresters (SAF). BEYOND THE CLASSROOM You won't just learn in the classroom. Many labs take place minutes away in OSU's Research Forests, where you can participate in research from the moment you step on campus. The college's research impacts every single person in the state of Oregon, and is important to the environmental, economic and social needs of the rest of the nation and the world You can also study abroad during your Oregon State career. Programs range from a few weeks to a year in destinations across six continents, with scholarships available to help offset costs. Finally, required work experience will allow you to apply your knowledge and make connections throughout the industry. Thanks to a comprehensive approach, you will leave Oregon State ready to make a difference and become a leader in your career of choice. FORESTRY DEGREE OPTIONS: Forest Restoration + Fire Forest Management Forest Operations "I talked to a lot of OSU alumni and they all talked about how great the communities were on campus." - Danielle Melcher, Class of 2024 | Forest restoration and fire option "I was able to work as a research assistant my first year at school" - Xavier Tacker, Class of 2024 | Management & Restoration+Fire Options "Every one of my fellow students I've met has had a passion for the outdoors" - Brandyn Brownfield, Class of 2023 | Forest Management Option "During field school, we spent all day in the woods together and lived together at night. It was an A-plus experience." - Josh Lewis, BS, 2020 Previous Next Paying For College There are a variety of options for you to fund your education. Over $550,000 in scholarships are available - and that's just from the College of Forestry. The College of Forestry is dedicated to making sure our degrees are affordable. General Information CoF Scholarships OSU Scholarships Scholarships for Incoming Students Community Scholarships OSU Financial Aid Possible Careers: Professional Forester, Forest Manager Manage our forest lands Foresters and forest managers are concerned with the overall administrative, economic, legal and social aspects and with the essentially scientific and technical aspects, especially silviculture, protection, and forest regulation. Foresters are multitaskers, often addressing a variety of issues with other professionals from many different areas. The industry is growing at a rate of three percent per year, meaning that 990 jobs will be added by 2022. Salary range: $53,770-$71,260 Possible Careers: Soil Scientist Soils and systems Being a soil scientist is more than just playing in the dirt. Soil scientists study the physical and chemical properties of soil. Because soils are affected by so many other systems, soil scientists also study land and water resources. Many jobs in this area are for federal and state governments. Time is often split between the field and the lab. Salary range: $37,630-$68,890 Possible Careers: Silviculturist Take care of our trees Silviculturists control forest regeneration, composition, growth and quality. They are specially trained in identifying disease and pests. Silviculturists often work for government agencies. Salary range: $42,000-$62,000 Possible Careers: Fire Ecologist Professional pyromaniac Fire ecologists can look for, study and fight wildfires. They can also work as consultants or foresters. Fire ecologists are experts on using prescribed burns to manage lands and prevent out-of-control wild fires. Salary range: $40,000-$60,000 Oregon Forest Science Complex The OFSC features 20 classrooms, computer rooms and laboratories, including the FERN Student Center and the Peavy Arboretum, where faculty, students, and researchers can participate in active learning and discovery while utilizing state-of-the-art equipment. Visit Full OFSC Site > Experiential Learning Forestry is a highly technical field, and Oregon State students learn best by doing. Graduates enter the industry with practical experience on their resume. Through internships, work experience, studying abroad or a myriad of other opportunities, forestry students get outside and get their hands dirty while learning and gaining valuable experience. Opportunities Abroad Research Internships Student Logging Training Program College Research Forests Mentored Employment Job Shadow Experiences Additional Opportunities See Yourself Here Oregon State University is located in Corvallis, one of the top-ranked college towns in the country. A one-hour drive from the Pacific Ocean, and a two-hour drive from the Cascades and high desert, it is an ideal place to live and work. Visit Us > College of Forestry Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331-5704 Tel: 541-737-2004 Contact us Copyright © 2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Forest Ecosystems and Society Forest Engineering, Resources and Management Wood Science and Engineering College Research Forests Forestry and Natural Resources Extension