Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Human Resources Human Resources Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office for Institutional Diversity Menu Main Nav Office for Institutional Diversity Contact Back Back Close About Overview Message from the AVP Diversity and Inclusion Statement Allies of Diversity AHANA Faculty, Advisors, & Mentors History OID Newsletter Contact Related Links Notice of Nondiscrimination Programs New Employees Thrive @ BC Overview Affinity Groups Self-Identification Forms Programs Overview Cultural Competence Engagement Modules (CCEM) Diversity and Inclusion Summit Living Out the Jesuit Mission Table Talk Diversity Series University Affiliates Program Voices of Diversity and Inclusion Forum Policies & Compliance Overview Discriminatory Harassment EEO and Affirmative Action Employee Grievance Procedures Federal & State Laws Hate Crimes and Bias-Related Incidents Protocol Notice of Nondiscrimination Reasonable Accommodation for People with Disabilities Title IX Boston College Related Links Self Identification Forms BC Employee Handbook BC Policies Events Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Self-Identification Forms Home Thrive @ BC Self-Identification Forms Thrive @ BC Affinity Groups Self-Identification Forms Upon hire, all faculty and staff are invited to self-identify as a Protected Veteran and/or a person with a disability, in addition to self-identifying their sex and race/ethnicity for the Boston College affirmative action plan. Applicant Self Identification Forms Invitation to Self Identify Race/Ethnicity Invitation to Self Identify for Veterans Invitation to Self Identify for People with Disabilities Employee Self Identification Forms Please visit the self-service area within PeopleSoft to update your status electronically or you may complete the forms below and forward to Patricia Lowe in order to ensure the information is kept confidential. Invitation to Self Identify for Race/Ethnicity Invitation to Self Identify for Veterans Invitation to Self Identify for People with Disabilities Please note: Some of these files are Adobe Acrobat® (PDF) formatted files. To view them, you will need to download the free Adobe Acrobat file reader. Voluntary Self Identification Definitions To help us comply with the federal and state equal employment opportunity recordkeeping and other legal requirements, we invite you to complete the following information. Submission of this information is voluntary and refusal to provide any or all the information requested, will not subject you to any adverse treatment. All information provided will be considered confidential and kept separate from your application, and if hired, your personnel file. In addition, the information will only be used in a manner consistent with the goals and requirements of the law and the University's Affirmative Action Program. Definitions for Race/Ethnicity Ethincity: Hispanic or Latino - A person having origins of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, Central or South American or other Spanish cultures or origin, regardless of race. Race: American Indian or Alaskan Native - A person having origins in any of the original peoples of North and South America (including Central America), and who maintains tribal affiliation or community attachment. Asian - A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian subcontinent, including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam. Black or African American - A person having origins in any of the Black racial groups of Africa. Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander - A person having origins in any of the peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands. White/Caucasian - A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, the Middle East or North Africa. Definition for Protected Veterans A "disabled veteran" is one of the following: A veteran of the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service who is entitled to compensation (or, who but for the receipt of military retired pay, would be entitled to compensation) under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. A person who was discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected disability. A "recently separated veteran" means any veteran during the three-year period beginning on the date of such veteran's discharge or release from active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service. An "active duty wartime or campaign badge veteran" means a veteran who served on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service during a war, or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized under the laws administered by the Department of Defense. An "armed forces service medal veteran" means a veteran who, while serving active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service, participated in a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985. Boston College is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer and does not discriminate on the basis of any legally protected category including disability and protected veteran status. Back To Top Back To Top Office for Institutional Diversity 129 Lake Street, Room 211 Brighton Campus 617-552-2323 About Thrive @ BC Programs Policies & Compliance Events Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College