Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Resources Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Prospective Students Current Students Research About Partner News COVID 19: Community Heroes COMMUNITY HEROES: A Guide to Being Brave in the Face of the Coronavirus The Clemson University Life Sciences Outreach Center created this children’s story for parents to use as they talk with their children about the coronavirus. Based on recommendations from medical professionals of Prisma Health, this story is both reassuring and encouraging. The story focuses on ways we can protect ourselves and our communities from the coronavirus. This story is presented in a flipbook format. English and Spanish versions are available. Click the image below of the version you wish to view. SURVEY: Please Share Your Thoughts After you’ve read the book, we would appreciate it if you could take a short survey to assess the impact of “Community Heroes: A Guide to Being Brave in the Face of the Coronavirus.” The online survey will take approximately 5 minutes to complete. Your responses will remain confidential. The survey questions are about you and your children’s experiences with the coronavirus and COVID-19. ➥ Take the survey about the impact of “Community Heroes” Purchase a Printed Copy You can purchase a printed copy on Amazon or Barnes & Noble for $9.99. Amazon — English version Amazon — Spanish version Barnes & Noble — English version Barnes & Noble — Spanish version GENERAL INQUIRIES College of Science 118 Long Hall Clemson, SC 29634 ✉ science@clemson.edu ☏ 864-656-3015 ABOUT OUTREACH The College of Science is committed to the University’s land-grant legacy of serving South Carolinians and using our expertise to promote the public good. In our outreach we focus on cultivating and advancing scientific literacy in all citizens — children, senior citizens, novices, students, teachers and the general public. Partner Home Alumni Outreach COVID-19: Community Heroes Booklet Departments Biological Sciences Chemistry Genetics and Biochemistry School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences Physics and Astronomy Centers and Institutes Clemson Center for Human Genetics Clemson Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovation Center Center for Excellence in Math and Science Education Life Sciences Outreach Center Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center Give to the College Like Us on Facebook Copyright © 2019 Clemson University College of Science | 118 Long Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3015 | Email Us