Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News UC Police win international award for burglary reduction project May 6, 2022 The University of Cincinnati Police Division was recently awarded the prestigious Herman Goldstein Award for Excellence in Problem-Oriented Policing. The award recognizes the UCPD’s burglary reduction efforts, which led to a 64% reduction in the target area compared to the three academic years before the COVID pandemic. UC Police donate equipment for use in Ukraine April 15, 2022 When Ohio Governor Mike DeWine reached out to Ohio law enforcement agencies to ask for personal protective gear to send to the Ukraine civilian territorial defense, the University of Cincinnati Public Safety Department was eager to respond. UC Public Safety awarded two grants February 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati Public Safety Department was recently awarded two separate grants, the Campus Safety Grant and the Body-Worn Camera Grant, both from the state of Ohio. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove UC Police win international award for burglary reduction project May 6, 2022 The University of Cincinnati Police Division was recently awarded the prestigious Herman Goldstein Award for Excellence in Problem-Oriented Policing. The award recognizes the UCPD’s burglary reduction efforts, which led to a 64% reduction in the target area compared to the three academic years before the COVID pandemic. UC Police donate equipment for use in Ukraine April 15, 2022 When Ohio Governor Mike DeWine reached out to Ohio law enforcement agencies to ask for personal protective gear to send to the Ukraine civilian territorial defense, the University of Cincinnati Public Safety Department was eager to respond. UC Public Safety awarded two grants February 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati Public Safety Department was recently awarded two separate grants, the Campus Safety Grant and the Body-Worn Camera Grant, both from the state of Ohio. UC Public Safety wins Photo Contest December 17, 2021 The University of Cincinnati Public Safety Department is December’s featured winner of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services’ Community Policing in Action Photo Contest. Public Safety works with United Asian Advocates to change UC... December 16, 2021 The University of Cincinnati Public Safety Department recently made an addition to the Timely Warning Policy, which addresses UC Aware notifications, based on a suggestion from the United Asian Advocates. Get ready in case it snows November 22, 2021 Learn how the university communicates when inclement weather threatens and what you can do to prepare. UC Public Safety celebrates retirement of K-9 October 19, 2021 The University of Cincinnati Public Safety Department recently celebrated the retirement of the department’s first K-9, Dozer. Retirement of UC Director of Public Safety James Whalen October 8, 2021 James Whalen will retire as University of Cincinnati's director of public safety and chief of police in early 2022. UC President Neville Pinto announces national search. UC Police honored for their efforts in improving public safety October 6, 2021 The University of Cincinnati Police Division was recently recognized for their use of Bearcat (Rave) Guardian to help provide emergency assistance to a student in need. UCPD completes pledge, reinforcing commitment to successful... August 6, 2021 The University of Cincinnati Police Division (UCPD) recently took another step to improve their response to those suffering from mental illness by completing the One Mind Campaign pledge. New facial covering requirement and vaccine incentives for UC... August 3, 2021 UC President Neville G. Pinto announced that facial covering requirements will begin at UC Aug. 5, and vaccine incentives will begin for faculty, staff and students later this month. UC closed Friday in honor of Juneteenth June 17, 2021 The University of Cincinnati will be closed on Friday, June 18 in honor of federal government's decision to mark Juneteenth as a public holiday. UC staff have elected their 2021-23 Staff Senators June 8, 2021 Join us in congratulating the 2021-23 new Staff Senate members! Elections were held in early May, and new senators will begin their two-year term in July 2021. All UC staff are encouraged to be part of the enthusiasm and excitement for our new senators by attending the Staff Senate online meeting via WebEx, June 30, 9-11 a.m. Weather Closure: Feb. 9, 2021 February 9, 2021 Due to inclement weather, the University of Cincinnati will close from 7 a.m. until noon on Wednesday, Feb. 9, 2021. UC Public Safety adds valuable tool to emergency communications January 31, 2021 The University of Cincinnati Public Safety Department recently made a significant upgrade to the department’s emergency communication tools. UC will be testing new Alertus buttons on Feb. 7. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top