Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Cincinnati Video - We Love Cincinnati Cincinnati Video - We Love Cincinnati Welcome to the Queen City When students come to Xavier University, they get a cozy campus with all the benefits of the big city of Cincinnati just down the road. Yes, Cincinnati is famous for baseball, chili, and events on the Ohio River. But we can also brag about the region’s multiple Fortune 500 companies, its quaint neighborhoods, a variety of festivals and entertainment for all occasions. It’s the perfect place to start a career or unwind after a long day. Explore what’s great about going to college in Cincinnati. How Cincinnati Stacks Up Want to learn more about what the Queen City has to offer? More Cincinnati Stats #1 Best Place to Live in OhioU.S. News & World Report #1 Best City for New College GradsU.S. News & World Report #15 Best Place to Start a CareerWalletHub Fun Facts About Cincinnati Biggest Oktoberfest in America Three Professional Sports Teams Seven Fortune 500 Companies Explore Cincinnati See some of Cincinnati's most popular events, places, entertainment and festivals that students can experience year-round. Fun in the City Spark Xavier's 200-acre campus is surrounded by diverse, bustling neighborhood communities. Explore what they have to offer. Cincinnati Neighborhoods Discover the best ways to experience the city, including walking, public transportation, biking and driving. Getting Around Cincinnati Launch Your Career Xavier students gain real-world experience at Cincinnati's multiple Fortune 500 Companies. Read about them and find related majors. Fortune 500 Companies Mentors from Cincinnati's top businesses and organizations collaborate with Xavier students of all majors. Businesses Partnering with Mentor Programs 98 percent of Xavier students are employed, attending grad school or working in service positions within six months of graduation. Xavier Student Outcomes Frequently Asked Questions Some of the most common questions about going to college in Cincinnati according to our regional admissions counselors. Cincinnati FAQs 55% of students at Xavier University are from out of state. Search by state to find and connect with your regional Xavier admissions counselor. Find Your Counselor Not Able to Visit In Person? You're in luck! Xavier University offers virtual tours so you can still see the campus and city. Virtual Tour Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram