By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stories Alumna Assisting in Covid-19 Recovery Chicago Mayor Invites Newhouse Alumna to Assist in Coronavirus Recovery Efforts With an eye toward serving the public, Sandra Cordova Micek joins city leaders to help Chicago safely reopen after the COVID-19 shutdown. In a recent board presentation for Window to the World Communications Inc. (WTTW), president and CEO Sandra Micek ’91 quoted former Federal Communications Commission chair Newton Minow: “It is not enough to cater to the nation’s whims; you must also serve the nation’s needs.” Micek oversees WTTW, Chicago’s PBS television station, and WFMT, its classical music radio station, which have been instrumental in relaying news about the pandemic. “You’re really reminded of your role in serving the public in times like this,” she says. Invited to Make a Difference After Chicago’s shutdown due to the coronavirus pandemic, Mayor Lori Lightfoot invited Micek to join the city’s COVID-19 Recovery Task Force to advise city government officials on economic recovery planning efforts. The task force is headed by Mayor Lightfoot and former White House Chief of Staff Sam Skinner and includes regional government leaders, experts from a range of industries, and community-based partners and policymakers to ensure recovery efforts are aligned across multiple jurisdictions. “This is a seminal moment for the city of Chicago,” says Micek. “I’ve seen unbelievable civic engagement across all sectors of the city. People believe we can come through this even stronger as a city and as a community. That drives me to be part of this work.” Addressing Chicago’s Digital Divide Micek’s contributions on the task force are grounded in her deep understanding of public media’s importance to the community. “Public media is meant for this moment in some ways. We’re serving the public at a time when they really need it,” she explains. Since the crisis started and people shifted to online education, WTTW has used its educational programming to address Chicago’s digital divide—the uneven distribution of access to computers and the internet among different groups. The station has aired free educational content and is supplementing e-learning with an educational block for middle school and high school students and lesson plans for teachers through PBS Learning Media. The commitment to meeting public needs underscores the significance of Micek’s role on the task force. A Career, and an Alumni Network, That Spans the Globe Micek came to Syracuse University to study journalism, but an introduction to the business side of media offered by the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications drew her attention. “It was important to me to go to a school where I’d be exposed to many facets of public communications, and where I could study abroad,” says Micek, who spent a semester in London in 1991 during the Gulf War, just as Operation Desert Storm was beginning. “It was a fascinating time to live in London as an American student. My perspective on global issues evolved there, spurring greater curiosity about world events, politics and cultures.” Her experience abroad also deepened her understanding of the arts, as she took a classical music appreciation class and attended live musical performances, which helped prepare her for running WFMT, one of the world’s leading classical music stations. Micek graduated from the television, radio and film program at the Newhouse School and went on to earn an MBA from the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, where she was the Ford Motor Company Marketing Scholar. Since graduating, she has worked for Turner Broadcasting, Accenture (first in London and later in San Francisco), Yahoo!, NBC Universal, USA Today and Hyatt, where she served as senior vice president of global brands before joining WTTW in Chicago. Micek says that wherever she goes, there’s always a strong Newhouse School network. Her husband, Marc, a fellow Syracuse University alumnus whom she met while they were both studying abroad, is also involved with the alumni network, chairing the Chicago regional alumni council. “The Syracuse network is everywhere, and it’s been a wonderful thread throughout my whole career,” she says. Recently, the Miceks started the Cordova Micek Family Scholarship Fund, which gives financial assistance to Newhouse students in need, with preference to Latina students. “Both of my parents are immigrants from Ecuador, and I am first-generation U.S. born,” says Micek. “The fact that we can help to make it possible for another Latina to fulfill her potential through an education at the Newhouse School at Syracuse is very meaningful to us.” The Syracuse network is everywhere, and it’s been a wonderful thread throughout my whole career. Micek still finds time to give back to the University as chair of the Newhouse Advisory Board, which supports the dean, faculty and staff in their efforts to make the Newhouse School the country’s leading institution for education and research in communications. She took on the role, in part, because she fully supports the Chancellor’s One University concept. She also likes to interact with other alumni and is proud to count herself among them. “My experience not only as an alumna of Syracuse University but with other alumni has been great, and it’s why I’m involved with the advisory board.” Lisa Maresca This story was published on June 30, 2020. Also of Interest Link S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Link Long recognized as one of the elite schools of mass communication, Newhouse embraces virtually every known form of information dissemination. Programs are rooted in the liberal arts while you learn how to manage and produce for the mass media and other areas of public communications. Syracuse Stories Link The Orange story has thousands of chapters. Discover some of the people, programs and research that fuel Syracuse University's undeniable spirit. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy