Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Advancement Menu About About University Advancement Leadership Directory Administrative Advancement Services Alumni Engagement Campaign and Donor Stewardship Corporate and Foundation Relations Operations and Financial Services Major Gifts Donor Bill of Rights Give Light Giving to Baylor Student Scholarships Academic Units Student Life Class Giving Athletics Parent Giving The Torch (Crowdfunding) How to Give Credit Card or Check Memorial and Tribute Gifts Corporate and Foundation Relations Gifts of Securities Gifts of Real Estate Gift Planning/Estate Gifts Matching Gifts Celebrating Giving 1845 Society 1845 Society Legacy Old Main Society Baylor Alumni Give Online Contact Us Baylor>University Advancement>About>Donor Bill of Rights Donor Bill of Rights Baylor University endorses the Donor Bill of Rights, developed by the Association of Fundraising Professionals (AFP), the Association for Healthcare Philanthropy (AHP), the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE), and the Giving Institute: Leading Consultants to Non-Profits. Philanthropy is based on voluntary action for the common good. It is a tradition of giving and sharing that is primary to the quality of life. To ensure that philanthropy merits the respect and trust of the general public, and that donors and prospective donors can have full confidence in the nonprofit organizations and causes they are asked to support, we declare that all donors have these rights. To be informed of the organization's mission, of the way the organization intends to use donated resources, and of its capacity to use donations effectively for their intended purposes. To be informed of the identity of those serving on the organization's governing board, and to expect the board to exercise prudent judgment in its stewardship responsibilities. To have access to the organization's most recent financial statements. To be assured their gifts will be used for the purposes for which they were given. To receive appropriate acknowledgement and recognition. To be assured that information about their donation is handled with respect and with confidentiality to the extent provided by law. To expect that all relationships with individuals representing organizations of interest to the donor will be professional in nature. To be informed whether those seeking donations are volunteers, employees of the organization or hired solicitors. To have the opportunity to have their names to be deleted from mailing lists that an organization may intend to share. To feel free to ask questions when making a donation and to receive prompt, truthful and forthright answers. Association of Fundraising Professionals (AFP), all rights reserved. Reprinted with permission from the Association of Fundraising Professionals. About About University Advancement Leadership Directory Administrative Advancement Services Alumni Engagement Campaign and Donor Stewardship Corporate and Foundation Relations Operations and Financial Services Major Gifts Donor Bill of Rights Office of University Advancement One Bear Place #97026 Waco, Texas 76798-7026 Clifton Robinson Tower - Suite 800 (254) 710-2561 University_Advancement@baylor.edu Make a Gift Please select...Where It's Needed Most Make a Gift Leadership DirectoryGiving at BaylorHow to GiveCelebrating Giving General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About About University Advancement Leadership Directory Administrative Advancement Services Alumni Engagement Campaign and Donor Stewardship Corporate and Foundation Relations Operations and Financial Services Major Gifts Donor Bill of Rights Give Light Giving to Baylor Student Scholarships Academic Units Student Life Class Giving Athletics Parent Giving The Torch (Crowdfunding) How to Give Credit Card or Check Memorial and Tribute Gifts Corporate and Foundation Relations Gifts of Securities Gifts of Real Estate Gift Planning/Estate Gifts Matching Gifts Celebrating Giving 1845 Society 1845 Society Legacy Old Main Society Baylor Alumni Give Online Contact Us