Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Faculty Senate Faculty Senate right arrow down arrow About Us right arrow down arrow Chair & Cabinet Senators Committees right arrow down arrow Academic Affairs Budget & Priorities Committee on Committees Governance Human Relations Information Technology Nominating Planning Research & Scholarship All-University Governance Committees Get Involved right arrow down arrow Meeting Calendar Contact Home » Employees » Faculty Senate » Committees » All-University Governance Committees Set Navigation title in component Academic Affairs Budget & Priorities Committee on Committees Governance Human Relations Information Technology Nominating Planning Research & Scholarship All-University Governance Committees All-University Governance Committees In addition to the Standing Committees that comprise the Faculty Senate working committees, Faculty Senate elects faculty to a variety of All-University Governance Committees. In some cases, Faculty Senate members serve on these committees in an ex-officio capacity. In addition to other committees within college and others at the university level, the committees carry out the important work of the University, including approving new academic programs, reviewing policy relating to Information Technology, providing input on policies intended to enhance diversity and inclusion initiatives, and more. Often, these committees include not faculty, administrators, students, and staff working together to create and supports foundational policies and practices that serve to respond to current need and promote future goals. Information can be found below on these committees. Academic Committee right arrow down arrow As recommending body to the Academic Operations Committee (AOC), the Academic Coordinating Committee serves as a university-level governance committee charged with generating and reviewing newly-proposed policies, procedures, and programs that bear on the University's teaching, research, and service missions. The committee interfaces with the Fiscal Coordinating Committee and is also responsible for advising the AOC and the Provost regarding the university's academic priorities, and with monitoring the next re-accreditation visit by the Higher Learning Commission of NCA. Athletics Advisory Council right arrow down arrow The Athletics Advisory Council advises the university President and Director of Athletics on all matters relating to intercollegiate athletics to insure the alignment of athletics with the values and goals of the University of Cincinnati. Board of Trustees right arrow down arrow The government of the University of Cincinnati is vested in a board of eleven trustees appointed by the Governor of the State of Ohio with the advice and consent of the Senate. Faculty representation includes the Faculty Senate Chair and 2 elected members. The Board of Trustees meets monthly. Capital Advisory Committee right arrow down arrow The Capital Advisory Committee makes recommendations to the President's Budget Advisory Committee on the capital budget by reviewing and recommending capital projects for priority and funding. The recommendations flow through the PBAC and the Fiscal Coordinating Committee to the President's Executive Committee, and on to the Board of Trustees. Diversity Council right arrow down arrow The Diversity Council serves as the All-University Governance Committee charged with building an institution-wide capacity to meet the needs of an increasingly diverse campus that embraces diversity as one of our core values, infusing every aspect of campus life and purpose, and every measure of success. The Council recognizes a very broad and inclusive concept of diversity that includes commonly recognized considerations such as race, ethnicity, gender, age, disability status, socioeconomic status, sexual identity, sexual orientation, religion, and regional or national origin. It guides the University's efforts to conceptualize, define, assess, nurture, and cultivate diversity and inclusion as institutional and educational resources at the University. Fiscal Coordinating Committee right arrow down arrow The Fiscal Coordinating Committee helps facilitate integrated decisions around fiscal planning and priorities. The FCC acts as an advisory to Senior Vice President for Administration and Finance. Participatory task forces are convened and report to the FCC. This committee interfaces with the Academic Coordinating Committee. Information Technology Council right arrow down arrow The IT Council is charged to consider all significant IT initiatives, issues, and policies that impact the university. The Council works with the CIO to prepare recommendations to the Senior vice President for Administration and finance and the Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost, and develop appropriate IT policies, standards, guidelines, practices, and compliance expectations. Information Technology Core Serices and Shared Infrastructure Committee right arrow down arrow The Core Services and Shared Infrastructure Committee reviews and makes recommendations on how the university should implement strategy, policies, processes, security, and services for shared IT infrastructure. This committee also has the responsibility to review and make recommendations concerning infrastructure and software for administrative information systems used by or proposed for the university. Information Technology e-Learning Coordinating Committee right arrow down arrow The e-Learning Committee reviews and makes recommendations on the information technology services needed to support the educational mission of the campus, above and beyond the base level of shared campus infrastructure. This committee recommends how the university should implement academic technology strategy, policies, processes, and services to support excellence and innovation across all teaching and learning activities, including e-Learning. Information Technology Information Security and Compliance Committee right arrow down arrow The Security and Compliance Committee reviews and makes recommendations on data security and security operations, policies, processes, and services that support the university community with implementation of an annual review process. In addition, the committee coordinates with enterprise risk management and establishes an appropriate review process verifying effective implementation and outcome. Information Technology Research and Development Committee right arrow down arrow The Research and Development Committee reviews and makes recommendations on how the university should implement strategy policies, processes, and services to support research computing. This committee makes recommendations on the IT services needed for research, data security, and compliance. Intellectual Property Committee right arrow down arrow The Intellectual Property Committee provides advice, as requested, to the Vice President for Research regarding intellectual property, including patent and copyright policies. As this is an advisory committee, meetings are called on an as-needed basis. President's Advisory Council on the Environment & Sustainability (PACES) right arrow down arrow PACES is charged with oversight of UC's commitments under the American College and University President's Climate Commitment, which UC signed in 2007. For more information, please visit the PACES website. President's Cabinet right arrow down arrow The President's Cabinet is an advisory committee to the university President and is composed of the President, Senior Vice Presidents, General Counsel, Director of Athletics, Faculty Senate Chair, Deans Council Chair, University Spokesperson, President of Student Government, and Graduate Student Governance Association Chair. Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Selection Committee right arrow down arrow The selection committee is charged with reviewing applications of nominees and recommends potential recipients of the award to the President of the University. For more information on this and other Presidential Awards visit the UC President's website. Rieveschl Award for Creative and Scholarly Works right arrow down arrow The committee is charged with selecting the annual award recipient for the George Rieveschl Award for Creative and/or Scholarly works. This award is given annually to one University of Cincinnati full-time faculty member. Faculty may nominate themselves or colleagues for the award. For more information on the George Rieveschl Award visit their website. Recharge Council right arrow down arrow The Recharge Council is responsible for the review and approval of the rates for approximately 40 service centers at the University of Cincinnati. The purpose for the committee is to ensure that the service centers are charging rates commensurate with the cost of providing services. Since most centers bill federal grants, it is vital that they are not over charging or charging for inappropriate or unallowable costs. Safety and Reform Community Advisory Council right arrow down arrow The Safety and Reform Community Advisory Council (CAC) was formed in October 2015 to provide community input regarding reform efforts of the University of Cincinnati Police Department. The goal of the CAC is to guide the UCPD forward to become a national model for best practices in urban-university policing. Members of the CAC provide oversight to ensure meaningful transformation and sustainability. Standing Committee on Conflicts of Interest right arrow down arrow This committee is charged with providing guidance in the management of conflicts of interest arising from the activities of the University and its employees. It ensures that relationships between the University, its employees, and outside entities are examined and conducted in a manner consistent with institutional guidelines and all applicable laws. UC Online Committees right arrow down arrow The Governance Committees for UC Online include the Strategy and Policy Committee which will review and/or develop policy recommendations for online degree and online education at UC and is informed by and oversees the following committees: The Online Instructions Faculty Working Group which engages online faculty in reviewing best practices, developing strategies and standards, and recommending CET&L programming; The Marketing and Recruiting Committee which engages marketers and recruiters in reviewing best practies, and developing strategies and benchmarks; and The Student Experience Taskforce which engages student services leaders in reviewing best practices for online student support and in developing strategies and standards. University Branding Committee right arrow down arrow The role of the Branding Committee is to monitor brand compliance; offer branding/design consultation; encourage deeper brand adoption (extend beyond high-profile communication); make decisions regarding brand policy and rule exceptions; identify branding opportunities; and elaborate/congratulate branding successes. University Calendar Committee right arrow down arrow The Calendar and Examinations Committee is responsible for developing the University of Cincinnati's annual per-term academic calendar and examination schedule. The calendar created by the committee becomes official once approved by the University of Cincinnati Board of Trustees. The calendar approved calendar does not apply to the College of Law or the College of Medicine (M.D. programs); those two College's are developed independently by those units. University Graduate Council right arrow down arrow The University Graduate Council considers matters pertaining to the policy of the Graduate School and present recommendations to the graduate faculty. The Council, through the Dean of the Graduate School enforces the rules and regulations of the graduate faculty. It proposes and considers measures and policies for the improvement of graduate education; assists the Dean of the Graduate School, as needed, with issues of discipline and petitions of students and staff; and evaluates new graduate programs and recommends to the graduate faculty its approval or disapproval. University Grievance Committee right arrow down arrow The Grievance Committee is defind under the AAUP Collective Bargaining Agreement with the University of Cincinnati. Panels of the committee hear faculty grievances related to the contract. The committee consists of 14 elected faculty members, 14 administrative appointees, and 10 academic unit heads. University Library Committee right arrow down arrow The University Library Committee advises and assists the Dean and University Librarian in the establishment of library policies, acquisitions, services, and facilities as they affect the library user. All faculty are eligible to serve on this committee except those from Clermont College, College of Law, and UC Blue Ash. Those libraries report to their respective deans and have their own separate library committees. University Naming Committee right arrow down arrow The Naming Committee exists to determine whether honorific and commemorative naming proposals are appropriate, responsible, and consistent with the established criteria. After considering all relevant information connected with a naming request, the committee makes a recommendation to the Vice President for Finance and Administration. If appropriate, the committee may suggest and alternative name. Recommended proposals are brought before the University of Cincinnati Board of Trustees for final approval. University Research Council right arrow down arrow The purpose of the Research Council is to advise the Vice President for Research on funding decisions made for several university programs that sponsor faculty and student scholarship/creative activities in the following areas: Arts and Humanities Physical Sciences and Engineering Life Sciences Behavioral Sciences University of Cincinnati Early Childhood Center Board of Trustees right arrow down arrow The University of Cincinnati Early Learning Center is affiliated through the Division of Student Affairs and Services. The center caters to UC students, faculty, and staff and is also open to the general public. It also provides training opportunities for UC students in the Early Childhood Development program. 300 USQUARE 225 Calhoun St. Cincinnati, OH 45219 (513) 556-3445 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 300 USQUARE 225 Calhoun St. Cincinnati, OH 45219 (513) 556-3445 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top