Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Hispanic Studies Undergraduate Concentration Guidelines Hispanic Studies Concentration Guidelines Concentration Requirements and Overview of the Curriculum The concentration requires a minimum of ten courses: one required course, HISP 0650 Advanced Spanish through Literature and Film (unless waived1); up to six courses at the 700 level; and at least three courses at the 1000 level. HISP 0650 gives students fundamental tools for critical analysis while also specifically targeting the development of advanced grammar and writing skills. The 700 level encompasses panoramic courses in the literary and cultural histories of Spain, Latin America, and the Latinx USA, as well as introductory courses on professional and literary translation and Spanish linguistics, all of which place emphasis on continued refinement of written and oral expression in Spanish. Courses at the 1000 level focus on particular authors, genres, periods, or special topics and introduce students to major critical voices and scholarly perspectives on the materials studied. Concentrators must take at least one Hispanic Studies course with the WRIT designation. The Hispanic Studies Literatures and Cultures concentration is designed to encourage and support language-specific study, for we believe that the linguistic cultural products of the Spanish-speaking world are most deeply appreciated in the original language. Hispanic Studies courses are therefore generally taught in Spanish, unless otherwise specified in the course description. Up to two courses taken in English or another language, whether in the department or outside, can count toward the concentration.Students may apply up to four related courses from outside the department toward the concentration, with prior approval from the Director of Undergraduate Studies (DUS). These courses may come from study abroad, transfer credit, and other departments and programs at Brown (e.g., Latin American and Caribbean Studies, Comparative Literature, History, Ethnic Studies, Anthropology), as long as they deal with themes related to the literatures, histories, languages2, and/or cultures of Spain, Latin America, or the Latinx USA. For a non-exhaustive list of possible courses you can take at each level please consult the University Bulletin. Honors Thesis or Project Students with an excellent record in their Hispanic Studies courses will be eligible to write an Honors Thesis or write and produce an Honors Project. Students pursuing honors must have a record of all A’s or a final grade of S with distinction in courses they have as S/NC. Typically, the Honors Thesis is a major research paper of approximately 40 to 80 pages in Spanish, depending on the topic and treatment necessary. Alternatively, a student may, with prior permission of the Director of Undergraduate Studies, present a film, gallery exhibition, or other appropriate project, together with a paper that clearly demonstrates the academic foundations and relevance of the project. Capstone colloquium Giving students an opportunity to reflect upon and celebrate their achievements in the Hispanic Literatures and Cultures concentration, there is an annual colloquium with graduating seniors, faculty and friends. Each graduating senior shares a piece of work or a text, whether studied in class or produced as an assignment, that stands out as particularly significant to their time in Hispanic Studies. This can take several forms: it can be an extract from a poem, novel, play, or critical essay; it can also be a film or music clip or piece of art; or, a translation done by the student, or an original creative text. COURSE PLACEMENT GUIDELINES DIRECTOR OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES: Professor Silvia Sobral 1Students can waive this course with an AP of 5 in Spanish Literature; or an SAT II of 750 or above; or a Brown Placement Score in Spanish of 651 or above. For more information on placements go to: https://www.brown.edu/academics/hispanic-studies/sites/brown.edu.academics.hispanic-studies/files/uploads/DIAP%20subcommittee_%20placement%20%28final%29.pdf 2Up to two courses in languages other than Spanish that are spoken in or are closely related to Spain and/or Latin America can count towards the concentration. As with all courses taken outside the department, students must petition the DUS in advance to have these courses counted, demonstrating their direct link to the student’s interests, for instance, for Honors Thesis research. Home Contact us Faculty Graduate Students Current Events News & Announcements Current Courses Course Placement La Pluma Writing Center Language Evaluations Undergraduate Honors Program Hispanic Studies DUG Concentration Guidelines SOMOS Latinx Literary Magazine Study Abroad Graduate Program Transatlantic Project Print this Page Share this Page Hispanic Studies Brown University Box 1961 84 Prospect Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3517 Fax 401-863-1669 [email protected] Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Other Resources Brown in Spain Library Resources