Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research DEI Initiatives Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Research Lab Listing Lab Media/Videos NeuroSTART Lab Websites Athena Project Assessment of Children in Educational Settings Laboratory Center for Health Promotion and Evaluation Child Health and Illness Lab - Child and Family HABIT Lab Historical Psychoeducational Test Collection Institute for Gambling Education and Research Knowledge Acquisition Laboratory Language and Behavior Lab (LaBlab) Literacy Lab Optimal Learning Lab Peer Interaction Group Research Lab Psychology of Language Laboratory Psychotherapy Research Lab Resilience Emerging Amidst Childhood Harships (REACH) Lab - Clinical Child and Family Trauma & Coping Research Group Trauma Research and Recovery Lab Take Action Psychology Advanced Degrees Academic Advising & Resource Center (AARC) The Psychological Services Center Teaching Take-Out Facebook Home Department of Psychology Research Research Labs Research Labs Assessment of Children in Education Settings Laboratory Students in the Assessment of Children in Educational Settings laboratory focus their scholarly and research efforts on the development, evaluation, and application of assessment methods designed to measure important constructs and behaviors in school and related settings. Point of Contact Randy G. Floyd, Ph.D. rgfloyd@memphis.edu Challenging Health Disparities in Adolescents & Nurturing Global Empowerment (CHANGE) Lab The CHANGE lab explores risk and protective factors that contribute to HIV- and obesity-related health disparities among adolescents, young adults, and their families. In concert with many local Memphis organizations, we strive to develop culturally-tailored interventions that promote healthier lifestyles, support medication adherence, increase safer sex practices, and decrease risk behaviors among diverse adolescents and young adults. Center for Health Promotion and Evaluation (CHPE) Established in 2002, the Center for Health Promotion and Evaluation (CHPE) is directed at understanding and improving health behaviors, particularly among young people. Most of our research currently focuses on reducing tobacco consumption, but we have also conducted research on a wide range of issues, including school violence, binge eating, dietary restraint, attitudes toward breastfeeding, and body mass index in teens. Point of Contact: Leslie Robinson, Ph.D. lrobinso@memphis.edu Visit Website Child Health and Illness Lab - Child and Family The Child Health and Illness lab conducts research spanning the fields of pediatric psychology, child-clinical, clinical health psychology, and applied-quantitative psychology. Most broadly, this research focuses on cultural, family, and behavioral factors that promote health and reduce morbidity in childhood chronic illness. More specifically, this research hopes to: Examine models of stress and adaptation to promote quality of life and regimen adherence among youth with type 1 diabetes and their families Identify the influence of cultural and family factors on children’s weight, diet, and mealtime behavior, with a particular focus on obesity in early childhood. Integrate quantitative and behavioral methodologies to inform, develop, and refine clinical health interventions and assessment to reduce and eliminate health disparities. Point of Contact Kristoffer S. Berlin, Ph.D. ksberlin@memphis.edu Visit Website Development of Psychological Strengths in Youth (DePSY) Lab – Child and Family Research Area The DePSY Lab examines the characteristics and function of positive psychological strengths (e.g., hope, life satisfaction, self-control) that protect and promote positive youth development. Further, we explore how these psychological strengths develop in childhood and adolescence, particularly in the context of family, school, and interpersonal relations. Cross-culture research and diversity issues are also important components in our lab. We aim to contribute to the development of evidence-based prevention and wellness promotion efforts in schools and communities. Point of Contact: TBD Habit Lab The HABIT laboratory conducts research that addresses important public health priorities related to addiction and health. For example, alcohol abuse among young adults results in thousands of injuries, assaults, and fatalities each year and can set the stage for a lifelong pattern of alcohol abuse and/or dependence. We have conducted several controlled clinical trials that have demonstrated that brief interventions incorporating motivational interviewing and personalized drinking feedback can reduce heavy drinking among young adults (including both college students and military veterans). These interventions are now being adopted across the country. We are currently funded by NIH to improve standard brief alcohol and marijuana interventions by adding a behavioral economic supplement that encourages engagement in constructive alternatives associated with delayed reinforcement. The HABIT lab also conducts applied clinical research that is influenced by basic behavioral and biological research (e.g., translational research) and contributes to the overall goal of improving our scientific understanding of human behavior. For example, we have used behavioral economic theory and basic laboratory research to guide our applied research on substance abuse etiology, assessment, and prevention. Point of Contact: James Murphy, Ph.D. jgmurphy@memphis.edu Visit Website Historical Psychoeducational Test Collection Research Areas Dr. Tom Fagan's research areas include historic tests, literature, and biographic information on psychologists significant to the origins and development of school psychology. Students interested in these topics are encouraged to contact Tom Fagan in Room 115, 678.4676. Point of Contact: Tom Fagan, Ph.D. tfagan@memphis.edu Institute for Gambling Education and Research - Clinical Health Psychology Concentration The Gambling Lab The Institute of Gambling Education and Research (TIGER) is composed of the Gambling Clinic and the Gambling Lab. The Gambling Clinic treats individuals with gambling disorders, trains professionals and doctoral students, educates consumers, as well as develops tools to measure and intervene with excessive gambling behavior. Point of Contact: James P. Whelan, Ph.D. jwhelan@memphis.edu gambling@memphis.edu The Gambling Clinic The Gambling Lab transforms its Gambling Clinic experiences into empirical questions about both risk factors and protective factors related to disordered gambling. Visit website Knowledge Acquisition Laboratory Students in the Knowledge Acquisition lab explore diverse topics in cognitive psychology including individual differences in learning and memory, as well as the educational practices that support successful knowledge acquisition. Point of Contact: TBD Language and Behavior Lab (LaBlab) The LAB lab is run by Stephanie Huette. We seek to understand the principles and mechanisms of cognitive processes that underlie meaning (semantics) in language, as well as their implications for behavior. We also investigate the role of behavior and real complex environments on learning and real-time processing of language. Our research uses dynamic measurements including eye-tracking and motion-tracking technologies to track behaviors as they unfold. Point of Contact: Stephanie Huette, Ph.D. shuette@memphis.edu Visit Website Literacy Lab Our research focuses on three primary lines of inquiry regarding reading fluency and its role in supporting reading comprehension. First, we examine theoretical questions about the relation between oral and silent reading fluency across development and the roles of various subcomponent skills in facilitating fluency and comprehension. Second, we investigate assessment practices with the goal of ensuring that students with reading disabilities are accurately identified as early as possible. Lastly, we seek to develop literacy interventions that facilitate the development of proficient oral reading and independent silent reading skills. Point of Contact: Beth Meisinger, Ph.D. bmsinger@memphis.edu Movement and Neurodegenerative Disorders Our research uses a multi-disciplinary approach to study the pathobiology of movement and neurodegenerative disorders including but not limited to Parkinson disease, dystonia, ataxia, essential tremor, and Huntington disease. We use tools from genetics, molecular biology, morphological neuroscience, computational biology, behavioral neuroscience, and neuropharmacology to study humans and relevant model systems. Point of Contact: Mark LeDoux, MD, PhD msledoux@memphis.edu Optimal Learning Lab The Optimal Learning Lab (optimallearning.org) represents Dr. Pavlik's and associates' work on a variety of theoretical and applied learning and memory problems. Specific interests include the intelligent tutoring, discovery of models, spacing of practice effects, testing effects, and forgetting. Please contact Dr. Pavlik to be placed on the mailing list. Publication and demo applications are available on the website. The Optimal Learning Lab is affiliated with the Institute for Intelligent Systems and Department of Psychology. Point of Contact: Philip I. Pavlik Jr., Ph.D. ppavlik@memphis.edu Visit Website Peer Interaction Group Research Lab Our research focuses on elementary school-aged children’s peer relations and social competence. More specifically, we examine peer social status and popularity; friendship relationships; traditional and cyber, aggression and victimization; and self-perceptions of social competence, loneliness, peer optimism, and attributions of respect. Point of Contact: Robert Cohen, Ph.D. rcohen@memphis.edu Resilience Emerging Amidst Childhood Hardships (REACH) Lab - Clinical Child and Family The REACH Lab examines pathways to risk and resilience among children who have been exposed to various traumatic experiences, such as interpersonal violence and loss. We contribute to the development of evidence-based interventions for families and children exposed to adversity by working within the community of Memphis to explore pathways to positive and negative functioning following exposure to traumatic events during childhood. Point of Contact: Katie Howell, Ph.D. khhwell1@memphis.edu Visit Website Psychology of Language Laboratory Students in the Psychology of Language lab explore diverse topics in psycholinguistics, including discourse processing, pragmatics, nonliteral language (such as exaggeration and sarcasm), and computer-mediated communication (e.g., via e-mail, Twitter, and Facebook). Point of Contact: Roger Kreuz, Ph.D., Associate Dean rkreuz@memphis.edu Psychotherapy Research Lab Studies in the research lab of Dr. Jeffrey Berman focus on a broad range of issues concerning the process and outcome of psychotherapy and the interaction between therapist and client. The lab is within the psychotherapy research concentration of the Clinical Psychology program. Graduate and undergraduate assistants are involved in all phases of the research process and are encouraged to develop their own research projects. Additional Information Opportunity in Psychotherapy Research Lab Opportunity for Psychology Honors Students Point of Contact Jeffrey S. Berman, Ph.D. jberman@memphis.edu Trauma Research and Recovery Lab This lab conducts basic and applied research on the emotional consequences of exposure to interpersonal trauma. Point of Contact: Gayle Beck, Ph.D. jgbeck@memphis.edu Visit Website Trauma & Coping Research Group The Trauma and Coping Research Group (TCRG) is focused on studying the ways that people respond to traumatic events, and on developing ways to help people suffering from the effects of trauma. The primary focus is on post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and some of the behaviors that can go along with it (e.g., substance abuse). We have conducted much of our recent work with military veterans who served in Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom (OEF/OIF), but we have also conducted studies with college students and community survivors of violence. Point of Contact: Meghan E. McDevitt-Murphy, Ph.D. mmcdvttm@memphis.edu Visit website Violence Intervention and Prevention (VIP) Lab The Violence Intervention and Prevention (VIP) Lab conducts research on the prevention of sexual violence and violence toward sexual and gender minorities (i.e., LGBTQ+ individuals). Specifically, the VIP Lab focuses on researching: Risk and protective factors for sexual violence victimization and perpetration Resilience among sexual and gender minorities as well as survivors of sexual violence Community and policy-level influences on violence Social justice and health equity for marginalized populations The VIP lab also collaborates with various campus- and community-based partners with similar goals and initiatives including the Sexual Assault Prevention Task Force and the Shelby County Crime Victims and Rape Crisis Center (CVRCC). Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/15/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.