× Please sign in You need to log in to use the bookmarking feature. Sign In Harvard Business School Sign in to Baker Library Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Search Find Services Ask Browse Databases Collections & Archives Guides Exhibits Find Books, Articles & More More Places HOLLIS Catalog Harvard Library Working Knowledge Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program See all... Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Staff Visiting Researchers Ask Us Ask a Question Fast Answers Policies Staff Directory How Do I... Request HBS Cases Plan A Visit Manage My Data Get Teaching Support Baker Library Databases Ask Us Special Collections Fast Answers All Services Hours Plan Your Visit Exhibits Hollis Working Knowledge HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Search Search Search Home Services Services for Doctoral Students Services for Doctoral Students Bookmark This Services for Doctoral Students /services/services-for-doctoral-students View all services for Doctoral Students 99 46740 Services for Doctoral Students /services/services-for-doctoral-students View all services for Doctoral Students 99 46740 Add My Librarian Item Filters Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program Publications Archives & Records Management Information Management Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Program Participants Staff Visiting Researchers Browse All Services Baker Library provides doctoral students with research assistance, specializing in data retrieval, analysis, and management. We are happy to meet one-on-one with you on a just-in-time basis to get the customized help you need when you need it Archiving Faculty Research /services/archiving-faculty-research Donate your research to the HBS Archives. 67 34944 Archiving Faculty Research /services/archiving-faculty-research Donate your research to the HBS Archives. 67 34944 Add My Librarian Item Archiving Faculty Research Donate your research to the HBS Archives. Borrow Direct & Interlibrary Loan /services/borrow-direct-interlibrary-loan Harvard Library tools and services that facilitate the access & delivery of books and articles from Borrow Direct affiliated libraries and interlibrary loan (borrowing from other libraries). 67 34934 Borrow Direct & Interlibrary Loan /services/borrow-direct-interlibrary-loan Harvard Library tools and services that facilitate the access & delivery of books and articles from Borrow Direct affiliated libraries and interlibrary loan (borrowing from other libraries). 67 34934 Add My Librarian Item Borrow Direct & Interlibrary Loan Harvard Library tools and services that facilitate the access & delivery of books and articles from Borrow Direct affiliated libraries and interlibrary loan (borrowing from other libraries). Buying and Licensing Data /services/buying-and-licensing-data If the data you need requires a Data Use Agreement, or a purchase out of your research budget, we will facilitate that process. 67 34942 Buying and Licensing Data /services/buying-and-licensing-data If the data you need requires a Data Use Agreement, or a purchase out of your research budget, we will facilitate that process. 67 34942 Add My Librarian Item Buying and Licensing Data If the data you need requires a Data Use Agreement, or a purchase out of your research budget, we will facilitate that process. Case Requests /services/case-requests Students currently registered in an HBS MBA or Doctoral class may request certain HBS Cases from the HBP Cases catalog. 67 34950 Case Requests /services/case-requests Students currently registered in an HBS MBA or Doctoral class may request certain HBS Cases from the HBP Cases catalog. 67 34950 Add My Librarian Item Case Requests Students currently registered in an HBS MBA or Doctoral class may request certain HBS Cases from the HBP Cases catalog. Consultations /services/consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. 67 36001 Consultations /services/consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. 67 36001 Add My Librarian Item Consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. Data Creation & Data Collection /services/data-creation-data-collection Baker Library's deep expertise with the licensed and publically available databases, as well as print collections, enables us to efficiently and effectively download, scrape, merge, and clean data from disparate sources 67 34945 Data Creation & Data Collection /services/data-creation-data-collection Baker Library's deep expertise with the licensed and publically available databases, as well as print collections, enables us to efficiently and effectively download, scrape, merge, and clean data from disparate sources 67 34945 Add My Librarian Item Data Creation & Data Collection Baker Library's deep expertise with the licensed and publically available databases, as well as print collections, enables us to efficiently and effectively download, scrape, merge, and clean data from disparate sources Data Deposit Service /services/data-deposit-service Baker Library staff can help faculty to share their data. 67 49242 Data Deposit Service /services/data-deposit-service Baker Library staff can help faculty to share their data. 67 49242 Add My Librarian Item Data Deposit Service Baker Library staff can help faculty to share their data. Data Permissions /services/data-permissions For data that is to be distributed, reproduced, or scraped, we offer services for evaluating terms of use for websites and datasets, obtaining permissions for copyrighted datasets that are openly accessible, and identifying the proper person for the researcher to contact for permissions and questions about data. 67 34978 Data Permissions /services/data-permissions For data that is to be distributed, reproduced, or scraped, we offer services for evaluating terms of use for websites and datasets, obtaining permissions for copyrighted datasets that are openly accessible, and identifying the proper person for the researcher to contact for permissions and questions about data. 67 34978 Add My Librarian Item Data Permissions For data that is to be distributed, reproduced, or scraped, we offer services for evaluating terms of use for websites and datasets, obtaining permissions for copyrighted datasets that are openly accessible, and identifying the proper person for the researcher to contact for permissions and questions about data. Data Wrangling & Analysis /services/data-wrangling-analysis Baker Research Services provides an array of data services including downloading, scraping, merging, and cleaning data from disparate sources from licensed and publicly available data sources, and the preparation of data for analysis. The team, comprised of data scientists, researchers, business information specialists, and librarians also offers a variety of analytical and data visualization services to support faculty research projects and publications using Baker collections and licensed and publicly available data sources. 67 34943 Data Wrangling & Analysis /services/data-wrangling-analysis Baker Research Services provides an array of data services including downloading, scraping, merging, and cleaning data from disparate sources from licensed and publicly available data sources, and the preparation of data for analysis. The team, comprised of data scientists, researchers, business information specialists, and librarians also offers a variety of analytical and data visualization services to support faculty research projects and publications using Baker collections and licensed and publicly available data sources. 67 34943 Add My Librarian Item Data Wrangling & Analysis Baker Research Services provides an array of data services including downloading, scraping, merging, and cleaning data from disparate sources from licensed and publicly available data sources, and the preparation of data for analysis. The team, comprised of data scientists, researchers, business information specialists, and librarians also offers a variety of analytical and data visualization services to support faculty research projects and publications using Baker collections and licensed and publicly available data sources. Digital Image Requests from Special Collections /services/digital-image-requests-from-special-collections Reproduction information 67 34956 Digital Image Requests from Special Collections /services/digital-image-requests-from-special-collections Reproduction information 67 34956 Add My Librarian Item Digital Image Requests from Special Collections Reproduction information HBS Working Knowledge /services/hbs-working-knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. 67 34931 HBS Working Knowledge /services/hbs-working-knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. 67 34931 Add My Librarian Item HBS Working Knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. Library Tours /services/library-tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. 67 84271 Library Tours /services/library-tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. 67 84271 Add My Librarian Item Library Tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. Newsletters /services/newsletters Baker Library publishes a range of newsletters every week for different HBS audiences. 67 52503 Newsletters /services/newsletters Baker Library publishes a range of newsletters every week for different HBS audiences. 67 52503 Add My Librarian Item Newsletters Baker Library publishes a range of newsletters every week for different HBS audiences. Research Assistance /services/research-assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. 67 48745 Research Assistance /services/research-assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. 67 48745 Add My Librarian Item Research Assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. Research Fellowships at Baker Library /services/research-fellowships-at-baker-library Information on fellowships that include support for research at Baker Library. 67 46542 Research Fellowships at Baker Library /services/research-fellowships-at-baker-library Information on fellowships that include support for research at Baker Library. 67 46542 Add My Librarian Item Research Fellowships at Baker Library Information on fellowships that include support for research at Baker Library. Workshops /services/workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. 67 34966 Workshops /services/workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. 67 34966 Add My Librarian Item Workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. Resources Contact: Alex Caracuzzo acaracuzzo@hbs.edu 617.495.2492 Back to top Today's HoursAll Hours Connect with Baker Map & Contacts Know Before You Go Library Spaces Staff Directory About the Library B4B Product Catalog Books@Baker Annual Reports Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College.