Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Opportunity Starts Here Academics & Degree Programs 242 Bachelor’s Degrees ♦ 214 Master Degrees ♦ 81 Doctorate Degrees Skip to Section Degrees Discover what makes UCF exciting and engaging. With more than 230 degree programs, you have more than options here — you have opportunity. Find undergraduate and graduate degrees that are offered in-person, online and through innovative distance learning. Bachelor’s Degrees Achieve your professional and academic goals with a university ranked among the top 50 for best undergraduate teaching by U.S. News & World Report. Explore our bachelor’s majors and find your passion. Explore Majors Master’s Degrees Get ahead with your master’s degree. With 91 programs available, you’ll learn from industry leaders who provide you with the tools to accomplish your professional goals and take your career to the next level. Explore Master’s Doctoral Degrees Become a leading expert and researcher in your field. Earn your doctoral degree from a university known for innovative research, and home to modern resources and facilities that equip you for success. Explore Doctorates Online Degrees Get convenience and flexibility by completing your degree fully online. With more than 100 online programs available, learn whenever and wherever you want while balancing school and life. Explore UCF Online Achieve Academic Excellence Immerse yourself in new challenges, explore groundbreaking research opportunities and enjoy a student-centered approach to higher education. At UCF, you’ll do that and more. Experience everything from thought-provoking viewpoints to diverse cultures to lifelong friendships and life-changing opportunities. Achieve your dreams and set out to do more. By studying at one of the most innovative universities in the country, you’ll graduate ready to make a difference in the world while pursuing a rewarding career. 4.25 Incoming GPA UCF welcomed a freshman class with a 4.25 weighted high school GPA in Fall 2021. Best Value Fifty-seven percent of first-time-in-college students graduate without any educational debt. It’s one of the reasons Kiplinger, Forbes, The Princeton Review and U.S. News & World Report all rank a UCF education among the nation’s best values. Fostering Inclusivity UCF set new records for diversity in Fall 2021: 49.1 percent of students are minorities. With 27.8 percent Hispanic enrollment, UCF is designated a Hispanic Serving Institution by the U.S. Department of Education. Top 20 Most Innovative U.S. News & World Report For the sixth time, U.S. News & World Report ranks UCF as one of the most innovative in its annual list of best colleges. Explore All U.S. News Rankings Get the degree you want. UCF has more than 230 degree programs in 13 colleges, plus a talented team of faculty and staff to help find what’s right for you. Whatever your passion, we’ll put you on the path to success. Or Browse By: Bachelor’s Master’s Doctorate Top 10 Majors* Top 10 Majors* Psychology Health Sciences Computer Science Biology Nursing Mechanical Engineering Biomedical Sciences Finance Digital Media Integrated Business *By Enrollment | Data provided by ikm.ucf.edu. Academic Technologies, Services and Support Student Resources Academic Calendar Class Search Student Academic Resource Center Veterans Academic Resource Center Graduate Student Resources Accessibility Services Technology [email protected] Support Accessing myUCF UCF IT Support Center Accessibility Services UCF Libraries Writing Center Offices Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center College Advising Offices Online Student Advising Office of the Provost Registrar’s Office Learning Online Whether you’re taking just one course or pursuing your degree online, UCF has the instructors, resources and support for you to achieve your education goals online. Fully online students get one-on-one support from application to graduation by an online success coach — keeping you inspired and on track throughout your college experience. Top 5 Online Bachelor’s Degrees* 1. Psychology BS 2. Nursing BS 3. English BA 4. Health Services Administration BS 5. Criminal Justice BA/BS *Based on Enrollment Top 5 Online Graduate Programs* 1. Social Work MSW 2. Public Administration MPA 3. Hospitality and Tourism Management MS 4. Nursing MSN 5. Criminal Justice MS *Based on Enrollment Colleges at UCF The University of Central Florida is home to 13 colleges with more than 230 degree programs that provide a path for you to embrace your talent and follow your dreams. Explore top-ranked colleges, schools and programs at UCF. Arts and Humanities The College of Arts and Humanities provides a dynamic incubator for artistic explorations of every kind, from literature and philosophy to theater and music. Explore your passion in state-of-the-art facilities, develop your talents under the guidance of faculty who practice what they teach, and learn real-world lessons through community partnerships. Top 5 Arts and Humanities Majors* 1. English BA 2. History BA 3. Emerging Media BFA 4. Art BA 5. Theatre BFA *Based on Enrollment Top 5 Arts and Humanities Graduate Programs* 1. Texts and Technology PhD 2. Theatre MFA 3. History MA 4. English MA 5. Emerging Media MFA *Based on Enrollment Burnett Honors College The Burnett Honors College promotes the highest academic achievement. Gain experience beyond the classroom through exclusive research programs, seminars, symposiums and study-abroad opportunities. You’ll join a collaborative community of scholars from all disciplines and benefit from small classes that allow for more discussion and greater interaction with honors faculty. Top Burnett Honors College Majors* 1. Biomedical Sciences BS 2. Mechanical Engineering BSME 3. Biology BS 4. Health Sciences BS 5. Aerospace Engineering BSAE *Based on Enrollment Business The College of Business helps you embrace your entrepreneurial attitude, and prepares you to adapt and succeed in a rapidly changing economy. Specialize in accounting, economics, finance, management, marketing, real estate or integrated business — applying classroom experiences to real-world opportunities. You can also participate in internships, study-abroad programs, corporate partnerships, business plan competitions and new venture incubators. Top 5 Business Majors* 1. Integrated Business BSBA 2. Finance BSBA 3. Accounting BSBA 4. Marketing BSBA 5. Management BSBA *Based on Enrollment Top 5 Business Graduate Programs* 1. Business Administration MBA 2. Management MSM 3. Accounting MSA 4. Sport Business Management MSBM 5. Business Administration PhD *Based on Enrollment Community Innovation and Education Pursue opportunities for civic engagement and transformative education that help communities thrive through the College of Community Innovative and Education. Participate in groundbreaking research and gain practical experience through internships, practicums and policy-development programs. After graduation, create an impact through a career in education, public administration and affairs, legal studies, criminal justice or health management and informatics. Top 5 Community Innovation and Education Majors* 1. Criminal Justice BS 2. Health Services Administration BS 3. Elementary Education BS 4. Criminal Justice BA 5. Legal Studies BS *Based on Enrollment Top 5 Community Innovation and Education Graduate Programs* 1. Health Administration MHA 2. Public Administration MPA 3. Criminal Justice MS 4. Educational Leadership MA 5. Counselor Education MA *Based on Enrollment Engineering and Computer Science Think creatively while conducting research in aerospace, civil, computer, electrical, mechanical, environmental and other engineering disciplines. In the College of Engineering and Computer Science, you’ll work on a number of innovative projects — from creating 3D-printed robotic arms to designing self-driving cars to developing artificial intelligence. Plus, gain industry experience through internships in nearby Central Florida Research Park, or with partners including NASA, Siemens, Lockheed Martin and L3Harris Technologies. Top 5 Engineering and Computer Science Majors* 1. Computer Science BS 2. Mechanical Engineering BSME 3. Information Technology BS 4. Aerospace Engineering BSAE 5. Computer Engineering BSCpE *Based on Enrollment Top 5 Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Programs* 1. Computer Science MS 2. Computer Science PhD 3. Engineering Management MS 4. Aerospace Engineering MSAE 5. Mechanical Engineering MSME *Based on Enrollment Graduate Studies Push yourself to new possibilities in the College of Graduate Studies. Choose from a number of degree programs that provide you with an opportunity to make important discoveries, master cutting-edge skills and advance both your knowledge and your career. Amplify your impact on the world in a big way with a master’s or doctoral degree from UCF. Top 5 Graduate Studies Programs* 1. Interdisciplinary Studies MA 2. Nanotechnology MS 3. Modeling and Simulation PhD 4. Modeling and Simulation MS 5. Interdisciplinary Studies MS *Based on Enrollment Health Professions and Sciences The College of Health Professions and Sciences prepares you to promote the health and well-being of populations with diverse needs. Through nationally recognized programs, you’ll develop in-demand skills through practical experiences and research led by respected faculty. Gain a rewarding career in prevention, diagnosis or therapy at hospitals, community-based and specialized-care facilities, schools, and nonprofit and social service agencies. Top Health Professions and Sciences Majors* 1. Health Sciences BS 2. Kinesiology BS 3. Communication Sciences and Disorders BS 4. Communication Sciences and Disorders BA 5. Social Work BSW *Based on Enrollment Top 5 Health Professions and Sciences Graduate Programs* 1. Social Work MSW 2. Communication Sciences and Disorders MA 3. Physical Therapy DPT 4. Kinesiology MS 5. Master of Athletic Training MAT *Based on Enrollment Medicine The UCF College of Medicine epitomizes innovation and provides you with a top medical education to lead patient care into the 21st century. Through the Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences, take on research in fields from Alzheimer’s disease to cancer and heart disease. You’ll also find opportunities around Lake Nona Medical City, including Nemours Children’s Hospital and the Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Top Medicine Majors 1. Biomedical Sciences BS 2. Biotechnology BS 3. Medical Laboratory Sciences BS *Based on Enrollment Top Medicine Graduate Programs* 1. Medicine MD 2. Biomedical Sciences PhD 3. Biomedical Sciences MS 4. Biotechnology MS *Based on Enrollment Nursing An active member of the healthcare community, the College of Nursing utilizes the latest technology and community-oriented programs to prepare you for life beyond the classroom. Through cutting-edge research, clinical training and community service, you’ll learn current techniques and develop in-demand leadership skills necessary to provide high-quality patient care to serve the needs of a changing population. Top Nursing Programs* 1. Nursing RN, BSN 2. Nursing BSN 3. Nursing Practice DNP 4. Nursing MSN 5. Nursing PhD *Based on Enrollment Optics and Photonics The College of Optics and Photonics pioneers the science and technology of lights, lasers, fiber optics, imaging systems and other areas of study. You’ll embark on groundbreaking research under the guidance of internationally recognized faculty, and leverage key industry partnerships to gain practical experience that will translate into a career at the forefront of this fast-moving field. Top Optics and Photonics Programs* 1. Photonic Science and Engineering BSPSE 2. Optics and Photonics PhD 3. Optics and Photonics MS 4. Applied Photonics Graduate Certificate 5. Optical Imaging Systems Graduate Certificate *Based on Enrollment Rosen College of Hospitality Management The Rosen College of Hospitality Management is located near the heart of one of the world’s largest and most popular tourism destinations. Here, you’ll learn to manage hotels, restaurants, theme parks, entertainment and events from international faculty. Along the way, gain industry exposure through paid work experiences and develop professional relationships with key local hospitality partners. Top 5 Hospitality Majors* 1. Hospitality Management BS 2. Entertainment Management BS 3. Event Management BS 4. Restaurant and Food Service Management BS 5. Hospitality Management AS to BS *Based on Enrollment Top 5 Hospitality Graduate Programs* 1. Hospitality and Tourism Management MS 2. Hospitality Management PhD 3. Destination Marketing and Management Certificate 4. Event Management Certificate 5. Hospitality and Tourism Technologies Certificate *Based on Enrollment Sciences The College of Sciences, UCF’s largest college, helps you build a foundation needed for critical thinking and career success in various programs — from communication and journalism to the physical, biological, social, behavioral and computational sciences. You’ll learn inside and outside of the classroom and lab through internships, research and field work locally and across the globe. Top 5 College of Science Majors* 1. Psychology BS 2. Biology BS 3. Digital Media BA 4. Political Science BA 5. Film BA *Based on Enrollment Top 5 College of Science Graduate Programs* 1. Interactive Entertainment MS 2. Psychology PhD 3. Physics PhD 4. Chemistry PhD 5. Mathematics PhD *Based on Enrollment Undergraduate Studies The College of Undergraduate Studies offers the ability to tailor your program of study to suit your individual academic and career goals. Choose your own path in environmental studies, women’s studies or interdisciplinary studies. You’ll gain experience across multiple disciplines and learn to apply various skills needed to succeed academically and professionally. Top Undergraduate Studies Programs* 1. Integrative General Studies BGS 2. Environmental Studies BS 3. Interdisciplinary Studies BS 4. Interdisciplinary Studies BA *Based on Enrollment Available Degrees Search UCF majors, minors, masters, doctoral degrees and more Schedule A Tour Take a tour of the campus and see if UCF is right for you Apply Now Whether you’re new or applying for graduate school, get started today Undergraduate Degrees Arts and Humanities Art (BA) Art (BA) - History Art (BA) - Studio Art (BA) - Visual Arts and Emerging Media Management Art BA - Visual Arts Management Track Bachelor of Design in Architecture (BDes) Emerging Media (BFA) Emerging Media (BFA) - Character Animation Track Emerging Media (BFA) - Experimental Animation Track Emerging Media (BFA) - Graphic Design Track English (BA) English (BA) - Creative Writing English (BA) - Literature English (BA) - Technical Communication French and Francophone Studies (BA) History (BA) Humanities and Cultural Studies (BA) Latin American Studies (BA) Music (BA) Music Education (BME) Music Performance (BM) - Composition Music Performance (BM) - Jazz Studies Music: Performance (BM) Philosophy (BA) Photography AS to BS Religion and Cultural Studies (BA) Spanish (BA) Studio Art (BFA) Theatre (BFA) Theatre (BFA) - Acting Theatre (BFA) - Design and Technology Theatre (BFA) - Musical Theatre Theatre (BFA) - Stage Management Theatre Studies (BA) Writing and Rhetoric (BA) Business Accounting (BSBA) Business Economics (BSBA) Business Economics (BSBA) - Business Analytics Economics (BS) Finance (BSBA) Integrated Business (BSBA) Management (BSBA) Marketing (BSBA) Marketing (BSBA) - General Marketing Marketing (BSBA) - Professional Selling Real Estate (BSBA) Community Innovation and Education Career and Technical Education (BS) Career and Technical Education (BS) - Workforce Training and Development Criminal Justice (BA) Criminal Justice (BA) Criminal Justice (BA) - Scholar's Track Criminal Justice (BS) Criminal Justice (BS) Criminal Justice (BS) - A.S. to B.S. Criminal Justice (BS) - Scholar's Track Early Childhood Development and Education (BS) Early Childhood Development and Education (BS) - Early Childhood Development Early Childhood Development and Education (BS) - Education: Pre-Kindergarten-Primary (PK-3) Elementary Education (BS) Elementary Education (BS) - K-6 Certification Elementary Education (BS) - Lifelong Learning Elementary Education (BS) - Professional Studies Track (Non-Certification) Emergency Management (BA) Emergency Management (BS) Exceptional Student Education (BS) Exceptional Student Education (BS) Exceptional Student Education (BS) - Learning and Language Track Exceptional Student Education (BS) - Lifelong Learning Health Informatics and Information Management (BS) Health Services Administration (BS) Legal Studies (BA) Legal Studies (BS) Nonprofit Management (BA) Nonprofit Management (BS) Public Administration (BA) Public Administration (BS) Secondary Education (BS) Secondary Education (BS) - English Language Arts Ed - Lifelong Learning Track Secondary Education (BS) - Mathematics Ed - Education Track Secondary Education (BS) - Mathematics Ed - Lifelong Learning Track Secondary Education (BS) - Science Ed - Biology - Lifelong Learning Track Secondary Education (BS) - Science Ed - Biology- Education Track Secondary Education (BS) - Science Ed - Chemistry - Education Track Secondary Education (BS) - Science Ed - Chemistry - Lifelong Learning Track Secondary Education (BS) - Science Ed - Physics - Education Track Secondary Education (BS) - Science Ed - Physics - Lifelong Learning Secondary Education (BS) - Social Science Ed - Education Track Secondary Education (BS) - Social Science Ed - Lifelong Learning Track Secondary Education BS - English Language Arts Education Track with ESOL and Reading Endorsement Teacher Education (BS) Teacher Education (BS) - Art Ed - Education Track Teacher Education (BS) - Art Ed - Lifelong Learning Track Teacher Education (BS) - Physical Ed - Education Track Teacher Education (BS) - Physical Ed - Lifelong Learning Track Teacher Education (BS) - World Languages Education - Education Track Teacher Education (BS) - World Languages Education - Lifelong Learning Technical Education and Industry Training (BS) Engineering and Computer Science Aerospace Engineering (BSAE) Civil Engineering (BSCE) Computer Engineering (BSCpE) Computer Engineering (BSCpE) - Comprehensive Track Computer Engineering (BSCpE) - Digital VLSI Circuits Track Computer Science (BS) Computer Science (BS) - Accelerated BS to MS Construction Engineering (BSConE) Electrical Engineering (BSEE) Electrical Engineering (BSEE) - Communication and Signal Processing Track Electrical Engineering (BSEE) - Comprehensive Track Electrical Engineering (BSEE) - Power and Renewable Energy Track Electrical Engineering (BSEE) - RF and Microwaves Track Environmental Engineering (BSVE) Industrial Engineering (BSIE) Information Technology (BS) Materials Science and Engineering (BS) Mechanical Engineering (BSME) Health Professions and Sciences Communication Sciences and Disorders (BA) Communication Sciences and Disorders (BS) Health Sciences (BS) Health Sciences (BS) Health Sciences (BS) - Health Promotion Track Health Sciences (BS) - Pre-Clinical Track Kinesiology (BS) Kinesiology (BS) - Exercise and Sport Physiology Kinesiology (BS) - Sport and Athletic Coaching Kinesiology (BS) - Strength and Conditioning Track Social Work (BSW) Hospitality Management Entertainment Management (BS) Event Management (BS) Hospitality Management (BS) Hospitality Management (BS) - AS to BS Hospitality Management (BS) - Hospitality Information Technology Hospitality Management (BS) - Lodging Management Hospitality Management (BS) - Theme Park and Attraction Management Lodging and Restaurant Management (BS) Lodging and Restaurant Management (BS) Lodging and Restaurant Management (BS) - AS to BS Track Restaurant and Food Services Management (B.S.) - A.S. to B.S. Track Restaurant and Foodservice Management (BS) Senior Living Management (BS) Medicine Biomedical Sciences (BS) Biomedical Sciences (BS) Biomedical Sciences (BS) - Molecular Cell Biology Biomedical Sciences (BS) - Molecular Cell Biology Biomedical Sciences (BS) - Molecular Microbiology Biomedical Sciences (BS) - Molecular Microbiology Biomedical Sciences (BS) - Neuroscience Biomedical Sciences (BS) - Neuroscience Biotechnology (BS) Biotechnology (BS) Medical Laboratory Sciences (BS) Molecular and Cellular Biology (BS) Molecular Microbiology (BS) Nursing Nursing (BSN) Nursing (BSN) - Accelerated Second Degree BSN Nursing RN (BSN) Nursing RN (BSN) - AS to BS Nursing RN (BSN) - Concurrent ASN to BSN - Seminole State Track Nursing RN (BSN) - Concurrent ASN to BSN - Valencia College Track Nursing RN (BSN) - RN-BSN Optics and Photonics Photonic Science and Engineering (BSPSE) Sciences Actuarial Science (BS) Advertising / Public Relations (BA) Anthropology (BA) Anthropology (BA) - Anthropological Methods and Practice Track Anthropology (BA) - General Track Biology (BS) Biology (BS) - Ecology, Evolutionary and Conservation Biology (BS) - General Biology Biology (BS) - Marine and Aquatic Biology (BS) - Plant Sciences Biology (BS) - Pre-Health Professional Biology (BS) - Zoology and Pre-Veterinarian Science Chemistry (BA) Chemistry (BA) - Education Track Chemistry (BA) - Industry Track Chemistry (BA) - Preprofessional Track Chemistry (BS) Chemistry (BS) - Biochemistry Communication and Conflict (BA) Data Science (BS) Digital Media (BA) Film (BA) Film (BFA) Forensic Science (BS) Forensic Science (BS) - Biochemistry Forensic Science (BS) - Chemistry Human Communication (BA) Human Communication (BA) - Business and Professional Communication Track Human Communication (BA) - General Human Communication Track Human Communication (BA) - Health Communication Track Human Communication (BA) - Interpersonal Communication Track Human Communication (BA) - Social Innovation and Activism Track International and Global Studies (BA) Journalism (BA) Journalism (BA) - Electronic Journalism Journalism (BA) - Print/Digital Journalism Mathematics (BS) Mathematics (BS) - Computational Track Mathematics (BS) - Engineering/Physics Track Mathematics (BS) - General Mathematics Track Mathematics (BS) - Mathematical Biology Track Mathematics (BS) - Mathematical Data Analysis Track Mathematics (BS) - Mathematical Economics Track Media Production and Management (BA) Media Production and Management (BA) - Media Management and Operations Track Media Production and Management (BA) - Production Track Physics (BA) Physics (BA) - Biophysics Concentration Physics (BA) - Education Concentration Physics (BA) - Information Technology/Data Science Concentration Physics (BA) - Nanoscale Science & Technology Concentration Physics (BA) - Technical Writing Concentration Physics (BS) Physics (BS) - Astronomy Physics (BS) - Computational Physics (BS) - Materials Physics (BS) - Optics and Lasers Political Science (BA) Political Science (BA) - American Politics and Policy Political Science (BA) - Intelligence and National Security Track Political Science (BA) - International Relations and Comp. Politics Political Science (BA) - Prelaw Psychology (BS) Psychology (BS) - Clinical Psychology Track Psychology (BS) - Experimental Psychology Track Psychology (BS) - General Psychology Track Psychology (BS) - Human Factors Psychology Track Psychology (BS) - Industrial / Organizational Psychology Track Psychology (BS) - Neuroscience Track Social Sciences (BS) Sociology (BA) Sociology (BS) Statistics (BS) Undergraduate Studies Environmental Studies (BS) Environmental Studies (BS) - Communication and Planning Environmental Studies (BS) - Sciences Integrative General Studies (BGS) Interdisciplinary Studies (BA) Interdisciplinary Studies (BA) - General Studies Interdisciplinary Studies (BS) Interdisciplinary Studies (BS) - General Studies Interdisciplinary Studies BA - Diversity Studies Track Pre-professional Programs Biology (BS) – Pre-Health Professional Biology (BS) – Zoology and Pre-Veterinarian Science Business Economics (BSBA) – Pre-Law Pre-chiropractic Pre-dental Health Sciences (BS) – Pre-Clinical Track Pre-medical Pre-optometry Pre-osteopathy Pre-pharmacy Pre-podiatry Political Science (BA) – Prelaw University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida