Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Classical Piano Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Classical Piano Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Classical Piano Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Classical Piano Undergraduate Certificate Expand your performance abilities with the Undergraduate Certificate in Classical Piano in Temple University’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Take a series of private piano lessons to advance your technical skills. You’ll also supplement performance experience with courses covering topics in music theory and keyboard literature from a range of periods and styles. Open to undergraduates who have completed at least 15 credits at Temple, the Classical Piano Certificate exposes students to the energy and excitement of the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. The Center serves as the gateway for creative collaboration between the Boyer College of Music and Dance, the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts, and the surrounding communities. Located on Temple’s Main Campus, the Center contains eight performance venues where over 1,400 annual arts events take place. As a certificate student, you can take advantage of lectures, master classes, performances, productions and screenings. Distinguished faculty from the Boyer College of Music and Dance have earned Grammy and Oscar awards and nominations, Fulbright scholarships, and fellowships including PEW, NEA and Guggenheim. Learn more about faculty. Classes & Curriculum Students pursuing the 12-credit Undergraduate Classical Piano Certificate will take courses in Keyboard Literature, Music Theory and Private Piano for Non-Music Majors. Most students complete all requirements for the certificate in four to six semesters. Learn more about the Classical Piano Undergraduate Certificate coursework. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Charles Abramovic is the chair of the Keyboard Studies Department and the program contact for the Classical Piano Undergraduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-8646 Email: abrajac@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-CLPN-CERT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Classical Piano Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info