Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Department of Economics Undergraduate Forward Arrow Undergraduate Advising Student Activities Creative Inquiry Global Engagement Internships Back Arrow Back Masters Forward Arrow Masters M.A. in Economics M.S. in Economic Analytics Back Arrow Back Ph.D. Forward Arrow Ph.D. Overview of Course Sequence Prospective Students Ph.D. Informal Application Current Ph.D. Students Placements Back Arrow Back News & Spotlights Economic Trends Forward Arrow Economic Trends Back Arrow Back Faculty & Staff Contact Us Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Department of Economics Undergraduate show submenu for Undergraduate Advising Student Activities Creative Inquiry Global Engagement Internships Masters show submenu for Masters M.A. in Economics M.S. in Economic Analytics Ph.D. show submenu for Ph.D. Overview of Course Sequence Prospective Students Ph.D. Informal Application Current Ph.D. Students Placements News & Spotlights Economic Trends More Faculty & Staff Contact Us Clemson Home Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Departments Department of Economics Current: Ph.D. Related Links About John E. Walker Fellowships in Economics Lindsay Fellowship Maloney Fellowship McCormick Fellowship Tollison Fellowship Wallace FellowshipWarner Fellowship Ph.D. Program The goal of the Ph.D. program is to educate students in the fundamentals of microeconomic theory, macroeconomic theory, econometrics, and application to primary and secondary fields of study, culminating in the writing and defending of the Ph.D. dissertation. Our training includes implementation and interpretation of mathematically rigorous models, with an emphasis on the application to a wide variety of phenomena that lend themselves to logical analysis. Our goal is to provide students the tools to prepare them for academic and non-academic positions in the private and public sectors, as well as domestic and international job markets. For complete policies and procedures, please refer to the Ph.D. Handbook. The program is designed to start in the fall semester. During the 42 credit hours, knowledge is assessed via a combination of graded coursework, qualifying examinations in core subjects (microeconomic theory, macroeconomic theory, and econometrics) and qualifying examinations and/or papers in the primary field. Aside from coursework, competence is assessed via students' written work in the form of 2nd and 3rd-year papers, presentations in the workshops of their choice, and the dissertation itself (18 credit hours). Ph.D. students have written dissertations on a wide range of topics, which can be viewed here: https://www.clemson.edu/graduate/students/theses-and-dissertations/index.html. The dissertations written by Clemson Ph.D. students are a testament to the fact that virtually any topic can be analyzed within the framework of economics. For more information about our Ph.D. graduate program, please email Curtis Simon, Ph.D. Related Links About John E. Walker Fellowships in Economics Lindsay Fellowship Maloney Fellowship McCormick Fellowship Tollison Fellowship Wallace FellowshipWarner Fellowship John E. Walker Department of Economics Copyright © Clemson University John E. Walker Department of Economics | 320 Wilbur O. and Ann Powers Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 864-656-3481 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Twitter LinkedIn ../../../_includes/widgets/contact-economics.html the fgc: Warning: file_get_contents(https:../../../_includes/widgets/contact-economics.html): failed to open stream: No such file or directory in /var/www/html/business/departments/economics/phd/index.html on line 333 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson