Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift MENU Academic Units The following colleges, schools, academic programs and committees report directly to Academic Affairs and the Office of the Provost. Colleges/Library Schools/Programs Committees Flagship Programs College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences The College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences embodies founder Thomas Green Clemson’s vision of a “high seminary of learning” focused on improving the lives of South Carolinians through education and outreach in the agricultural and natural sciences. Visit Website College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities With its unique blend of disciplines, the College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities immerses students in both the abstract and practical activities of human imagination — from architecture to communication, ethics to art. Visit Website College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences The College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences is focused on becoming a national and international leader in solving the problems faced by individuals, families, communities and societies. Visit Website College of Business The College of Business transforms students into leaders, entrepreneurs and innovators who are prepared to flourish within the global marketplace of ideas. Through immersive education, research and outreach programs, our students become empowered, market-ready leaders, poised to shape the future. Visit Website College of Education The College of Education trains teachers, counselors and leaders for P-12 schools; prepares counselors to serve in communities; trains student affairs practitioners, administrators and faculty to serve in higher education; and prepares training and development specialists for business and industry. Visit Website College of Engineering, Computing & Applied Sciences The College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences educates, creates and disseminates new knowledge, engages students in critical thinking, and thereby inspires new discoveries—the cutting-edge innovations of tomorrow. Visit Website College of Science The College of Science brings together the fields of mathematics, physical sciences and life sciences to give them additional attention and focus. Our faculty and students are driven by curiosity and the goal of improving the lives of everyone around us. Visit Website Libraries University Libraries consist of RM Cooper Library (main), the Emery A. Gunnin Architecture Library, Special Collections in the Strom Thurmond Institute Building, the Tillman Media Center in Tillman Hall and the Library Depot (Research Park), which houses Records Management, Digital Initiatives unit and our offsite shelving facility. Visit Website The Graduate School The Graduate School offers more than 100 graduate degree programs in 85 disciplines on the college's main campus and at sites such as Clemson at the Falls, the Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research and the Clemson Architecture Center as well as some online/distance-learning programs. Many of our graduate programs are highly ranked nationally, and we offer several unique interdisciplinary programs. Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies is a multifaceted service and support unit dedicated to the intellectual and personal growth of undergraduates at Clemson University. The mission of Undergraduate Studies is the enrichment of the undergraduate academic experience, from initial recruitment and admission, through graduation, and preparation for a life of productive and responsible citizenship. Online Education The Office of Online Education, a unit reporting directly to the Provost, works closely with leadership teams across the University to develop, market, and deliver top-quality courses and programs in blended and online formats. The office provides vision, leadership, coordination, and expertise in support of faculty design, delivery, and evaluation of technology-enhanced, blended, and fully online courses and instructional materials. Off-Campus Programs For more information, visit the Off-Campus Programs web page. Clemson University Honors College Established in 1962, Clemson University Honors College strives to enrich the educational experience of highly motivated academically talented students by providing opportunities for study and research that are usually unavailable to undergraduates. Emeritus College The goal of the Emeritus College is to provide a means for emeritus faculty to stay connected to the University and support Clemson's teaching, research and outreach missions. There are more than 600 emeriti affiliated with the college. CCIT - Clemson Computing and Information Technology For more information, visit the CCIT web page. Global Engagement The Office of Global Engagement (OGE) coordinates international activities and collaborative efforts on Clemson's campus and around the world through programming, services, and development. Office of Institutional Effectiveness The Office of Institutional Effectiveness supports the university's commitment to academic and operational excellence through the collection, rigorous analysis and reporting of wide-ranging data. ■ Academic Council The Academic Council reviews and recommends academic policy to the Provost. Such matters may be routed to the President through the Provost by a majority vote. The council receives reports and recommendations from committees and groups reporting to it. The Academic Council also reviews recommendations regarding university-wide academic policy that emanate from the office of the Provost, the Faculty Senate, the Student Senate, collegiate faculties, as well as from ad hoc committees appointed by the President or Provost. The Academic Council shall view its role primarily as an oversight body guiding and advising the university with regard to academic policy. ■ Alumni Distinguished Professors Committee ■ Computer Advisory Committee ■ Faculty Development Committee ■ Faculty Salaries and Fringe Benefits Committee ■ Libraries Advisory Committee Reviews and advises on policies for the university libraries. Membership consists of the dean of the library as the committee's non-voting chair; one faculty representative serving a three year term elected from each college and the library; a representative of the Faculty Senate elected annually; a representative of the Staff Senate appointed annually by the Senate President; an undergraduate student appointed by the President of the Student Senate; and a graduate student appointed by the President of the Graduate Student Government. ■ University Assessment Committee The University Assessment Committee at Clemson University provides leadership and assistance in developing and overseeing a program of evaluation and feedback to enhance institutional effectiveness. ■ Graduate Committee Allegations of violations of academic integrity on the part of a graduate student should be addressed according to the policy and the procedures of the Graduate Academic Integrity Committee. The Graduate Academic Integrity Committee membership consists of four tenured faculty members from each of the academic colleges who serve two-year staggered terms and five graduate students, one from each college, and one selected from the interdisciplinary programs of the Graduate School, all of whom serve one year terms. An associate dean of the Graduate School is the administrative coordinator and non-voting member of the Graduate Academic Integrity Committee. ■ Undergraduate Committee Oversees coordination of university advising activities (including college academic advising centers, academic support center, colleges, etc.); informs advisors of current policies on advising; periodically reviews the mission of academic advising; coordinates assessments of the university advising system; and provides professional development for advisors. Membership consists of the following: Two tenured or tenure-track faculty elected from each college for a two-year term on a staggered basis, one additional member with experience and interest in advising elected from each college for a two-year term, two at-large appointments made by the Provost, and one undergraduate student appointed by the president of the Student Senate. An ex officio, non-voting member is a representative of the office of undergraduate studies. The chair is elected by the membership. Flagship programs at Clemson University are committed to enriching the educational experience for students from all colleges and majors. The following programs invest in Clemson students’ personal and academic development, helping them grow into strong, ethical leaders that will improve not only the industry or profession they join but also the community around them. Thomas F. Chapman Leadership Scholars Program The Thomas F. Chapman Leadership Scholars Program advances Clemson’s mission to develop strong leaders in every academic discipline by selecting first year students from each of the University’s seven colleges and expanding their academic journey with additional educational and professional development opportunities. Rather than a one-time award, Thomas F. Chapman Leadership Scholars have the potential to receive funding, mentorship and educational opportunities over the course of three years. Thomas F. Chapman Leadership Scholars Program Rutland Institute for Ethics For over 20 years, the Rutland Institute for Ethics has supported Clemson’s academic colleges in expanding ethics education and investing in the next generation of ethical leaders. From sponsored student organizations to scholar programs and financial support, the Rutland Institute makes a significant impact on our University’s mission. Rutland Institute for Ethics Academic Affairs and Provost Home ClemsonForward Academic Units Leadership Faculty Affairs Contact Us Related Links Academic Calendar Research at Clemson Faculty Manual Annual Report Human Resources Information Clemson University Students with Service Animals In Training Acknowledgement Form Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram