Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad Covid-19 Updates As of June 1, 2021, Clemson’s high risk travel directive has been updated making way for some student travel to resume. A select number of education abroad opportunities have been approved for the students to apply for the Spring 2022 term. List of Approved Programs for Spring 2022 These programs have been opened for application based on the curriculum, health, safety, and student support measures they offer on site. At this time, participation in these programs cannot be guaranteed, however, the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad will be constantly monitoring the covid-19 rates and responses of these host locations and programs. We advise students to consult with their academic advisor on a back-up plan, and educate themselves on the covid-19 rates at the program destination and the safety protocols being implemented by their program and local authorities. The university is committed to the safety and well-being of our students, faculty, and staff as they travel in pursuit of their academic goals. At times and under particular circumstances, the risks of travel may significantly outweigh the benefits and the university may deny requests for university related travel to destinations designated as high-risk. All approved programs have been reviewed with consideration to factors including local conditions, program services and support, ability to adapt to any changing situations, and have addressed health and safety protocols in line with recommendations from the Overseas Security Advisory Council and the Forum on Education Abroad. As the nature of travel and education abroad continues to evolve, students and their families should carefully review all the information available about both the program and the destination. The Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad is ready to assist students as they plan for a fall semester abroad! Please review our re-opening FAQs, and feel free to contact us during our open office hours at 864-656-2457 or abroad@clemson.edu . Travel Advisories US Department of State Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CLEMSON UNIVERSITY UPDATES ON THE CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) Please make sure that you are regularly checking Clemson University’s COVID-19 website for important updates. Any changes to these restrictions will be announced as circumstances allow. Home How to Apply Preparing for Your Experience Healthy and Safe Abroad Financing Your Experience While Abroad Covid-19 Updates FAQs Contact Us Login Information For Incoming Exchange Students Faculty and Staff Parents Returning to Clemson Related Links Passport Information US Department of State Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Office of Global Engagement Office of Global Engagement International Students English Language Programs Global Learning Institute for Faculty Global Partnerships Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram