Skip to site alert. Skip to content Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research Newsletter News Events Videos People Search About Us About Us Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Initiatives and Committees Implementation Science COVID-19 Research Initiative Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Opioid Crisis Response Learning Health System Initiative Services and Programs Our Impact Our Impact A Model for Collaboration Testimonials Publications People Impact Stories Narratives of Discovery People Irving Scholars Mentor of the Year Award Pilot Awardees Scholars, Trainees, and Fellows Join a Study Join a Study What is Health Research? Research Registries and Studies Community Health Resources Funding and Training Opportunities May 10, 2022 The Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research offers several funding and training opportunities that accept competitive applications typically once per year. Below is a quick listing of the programs and upcoming key dates. More information is available on each program webpage. Subscribe to our newsletter to receive updates on these and other programs. Pilot Award Programs Collaborative and Multidisciplinary Pilot Research (CaMPR) and CaMPR-Integrating Special Populations (CaMPR-ISP) Pilot Award Focuses on the innovative assembly of new teams to gather preliminary data to address unresolved clinical, translational and public health problems. Applications open Fall 2022. Anticipated deadline February 2023. Strategic Priorities Pilot Award Deploys institutional funds to address emerging strategic priorities. The 2021-2022 cycle’s Learning Health Systems Pilot Award supports proposals that apply a learning health systems approach that integrates informatics, research, and clinical practice programs to solve real-world problems at NYP/CUIMC. Applications open Fall 2022. Anticipated deadline February 2023 Community-Based Participatory Research Scholars and Awards Program A key capacity-building opportunity to stimulate community-engaged research between Columbia University faculty and community/faith-based organizations that serve upper Manhattan and/or The Bronx. Applications open February 2023. Anticipated deadline March 2023 Imaging Pilot Award Provides funding for junior investigators in MRI, optical imaging, PET tomography, single photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography (SPECT/CT), and ultrasound. Applications open February 2023. Anticipated deadline April 2023 Intervention and Implementation Science Pilot Award A key capacity building opportunity to stimulate the development, testing, and implementation of innovative population health, social/behavioral, or medical/clinical interventions. Applications open Summer 2022. Anticipated deadline October 2022 Translational Therapeutics Accelerator Pilot Award Designed to provide investigators with funding, mentorship, and education to guide the advancement of an innovation from the lab to the clinic. Applications open Fall 2022. Anticipated deadline November 2022 Columbia Precision Medicine Joint Pilot Grants Program Funds research proposals focused on approaches to tailor medical care (prevention, diagnosis, and/or treatment) to the individual patient. Applications open Fall 2022. Anticipated deadline November 2022 Irving Multi-PI Planning Grant Pilot funds intended to support the submission of multi-component biomedical research grants and large multi-PI research grants. Applications open Fall 2022. Anticipated deadline December 2022 Pilot Funding Eligibility Consultation Training and Career Development Programs Reach for the First R01 Workshop Available twice a year to all promising junior faculty who are applying for the next funding cycle for an NIH R01 mechanism. Applications open Summer 2022 applications will open in December 2022 TL1 Training Programs Prepares trainees for a research career that involves understanding disease risk, improving diagnosis/prevention, or tailoring treatment based on gene variations, environment, or lifestyle. Applications open February 2023. Anticipated deadline April 2023 Irving Scholars Program Open to new applicants once a year and offers unrestricted funding over three years to mid-level assistant professors at CUIMC working in clinical and translational research. Each awardee will be named a Herbert Irving (or Florence Irving) Assistant Professor and will join a prestigious alumni group dating back to 1987 when the program began. Apply by May 5, 2022 KL2 Mentored Career Development Award Prepares young investigators for careers in patient-oriented research. The award serves as a "bridge" by which young junior faculty can achieve research independence. Applications open Summer 2022. Anticipated deadline September 2022 Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Services and Programs Our Impact Join a Study Contact Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Back to top