Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > BC Events > Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights Singer, songwriter, and actor Josh Groban will headline the virtual scholarship gala, BC's largest fundraising event for financial aid Grammy, Emmy, and Tony Award-nominee Josh Groban will headline “Pops Off the Heights” on September 25 at 7 p.m., continuing the University’s annual “Pops on the Heights” tradition this year in the form of a virtual musical celebration. A consummate American showman, the singer, songwriter, and actor has entertained fans across the globe with his multi-platinum albums (more than 35 million sold worldwide), electrifying live performances, and comedic film and television appearances. An active arts education philanthropist and advocate, Groban is a member of Americans for the Arts Artists Committee; his Find Your Light Foundation helps enrich the lives of young people through arts, education, and cultural awareness. Pops on the Heights has raised more than $80 million for student scholarships and has evolved into the University’s largest fundraising event for financial aid. As special guest artist, Groban will be joined by maestro Keith Lockhart, who will once again conduct members of the Boston Pops Orchestra. Throughout its 28-year history, the momentous BC Pops on the Heights tradition—started by Barbara and James F. Cleary ’50, H’93—has raised more than $80 million for student scholarships, organizers note. It has evolved into the University’s largest fundraising event for financial aid, as well as one of Boston’s most successful philanthropic events. “Given all that Pops on the Heights represents to Boston College and, most especially, to our students, we felt it was very important to keep the tradition going,” said BC Senior Vice President for University Advancement Jim Husson. “While we cannot be together in Conte Forum on the last Friday of September, Pops Off the Heights will bring our student performers and the talented Boston Pops and guest artist Josh Groban into the homes of Eagles around the world. Many alumni and parents have never been able to be with us on campus and so this will be an opportunity for them to experience the magic of Pops for the first time. But the real magic is the difference that our Pops benefactors make in the lives of our students. This year will be extra special as Pops Off the Heights celebrates student scholarships and the launch of Be a Beacon, our year-long financial aid campaign.” The event—which also will feature Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences seniors Tiffany Brooks and Olivia Constantino as soloists—is free of charge, but registration is required by Thursday, September 24, at www.bc.edu/pops. Attendees are invited to make a contribution to support Boston College students. University Communications | September 2020 Related links Pops Off the Heights Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College