Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School MAD Conference 2019 Baylor>Baylor Law>About>Special Events>LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference>2019 | Making a Difference Conference MAD Conference 2019 Making a Difference Conference "Rising Up Against Injustice" Using your law degree to pursue your passion and serve those in your community Hosted by Baylor Law and LEAD Counsel Friday, February 15, 2019, 2:00 PM – 5:30 PM Baylor Law Jim Kronzer Appellate Advocacy Classroom & Courtroom, Room 127, Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive, Waco, TX 76706 An Open Invitation The goal of the Making a Difference Conference is to inspire law students and lawyers to use their legal training to make meaningful contributions to their communities. The theme of the third annual conference is Rising Up Against Injustice and aims to inspire and equip attendees to become servant leaders and to put their own passions into practice. The speakers and panels will focus upon ways in which law students and lawyers can combine their passions with their legal training – both now and in their future careers – to rise up against injustice. Areas of focus will include advocating on behalf of the vulnerable, challenging racial disparities, and defending sexual assault victims. LEAD Counsel has identified these topics as areas of interest for its diverse group of law students, as well as relevant to the current legal climate in our community. This conference is open to the public. Any interested person is welcome to attend. For additional information, please contact LEADCounsel@baylor.edu. Baylor law students will receive two dual professional and leadership development credits for attending the full conference.* This course has been approved for Minimum Continuing Legal Education credit by the State Bar of Texas Committee on MCLE in the amount of 3 credit hours of which 2 credit hours will apply to legal ethics/professional responsibility credit. *If you are a non-Baylor law student but have a similar requirement for professional development at your institution, please email LEADCounsel@baylor.edu with the correct contact information at your law school. We will contact your school regarding credit for your attendance. Schedule of Events 2:00 p.m. Welcome Cassie Patterson, LEAD Counsel President 2:05 p.m. Introduction Leah W. Teague Associate Dean, Baylor Law Founder, LEAD Mentoring Program 2:10 p.m. A Voice for the Vulnerable Advocating for Vulnerable Populations Speaker: Richard Muñoz Assistant General Counsel for Buckner International 3:00 - 3:10 p.m. Transition Period 3:10 p.m. Justice for All Challenging Racial Disparities Co-Sponsored by the Baylor Law Black Law Student Association (BLSA) Speakers: Michael Heiskell Senior Attorney, Johnson, Vaughn, & Heiskell Mark O’Mara Founder, O'Mara Law Group Moderated by: Michelle Simpson Tuegel Partner, The Simpson Tuegel Law Firm, PLLC 4:10 - 4:30 p.m. Break for Refreshments and Vendor Fair Please visit the booths in the adjoining hallway regarding different ways to get involved in the Waco community. 4:30 p.m. Breakout Sessions Honing In Your Passion Room 120: Does the Race of the Lawyer Matter? by Michael Heiskell Room 122: Implicit Bias by Mark O'Mara Room 127: #MeToo Cases & Litigating Sexual Abuse in Sports by Michelle Simpson Tuegel 5:00 p.m. Closing Remarks: LEAD and BLSA Representatives The Vendor Fair Will Continue Immediately Following Closing Remarks Booths will continue to be set up in the adjoining hallway regarding ways to get involved in the Waco community. About the Speakers A Voice for the Vulnerable Speaker Richard Muñoz Assistant General Counsel for Buckner International Richard Muñoz graduated from Baylor Law in 1999. Coming out of law school, he never thought he would work at a non-profit. “If you had asked me at the beginning of my career if I would be where I am now, I would have looked at you and said ‘No, I’m going to be a trial lawyer. I’m going to be the guy on TV who wins the million-dollar cases,’” Muñoz said. After graduating from Baylor Law, Muñoz worked at the US Department of Labor for two years before moving into private practice. Then in 2007, Munoz began working for non-profit Buckner International. Buckner International is a 139-year-old organization which is the second largest provider of non-profit senior living in Texas and has international child-welfare operations in six countries. Buckner’s focus has always been helping vulnerable children and seniors. While working for Buckner, Muñoz has been active in channeling the organization’s efforts toward immigration reform. He worked with Buckner and the Baptist General Convention of Texas to create a program called the Immigration Service and Aid Center project, or ISAAC. Muñoz used his legal knowledge to help churches understand immigration law and their congregants become accredited representatives who could help undocumented immigrants attain legal residency. Generally, Muñoz helps Buckner International and its subsidiaries ("Buckner") solve complex legal problems involving corporate administration, senior health care, and child welfare programs in the United States and abroad. More specifically, he works closely with Buckner International's international presence, traveling to different countries and insuring the laws and procedures of that country are properly followed to insure Buckner's presence is sustainable and helpful. Justice for All Panel Michael Heiskell Senior Attorney, Johnson, Vaughn, & Heiskell Michael Heiskell is a prime example of an attorney committed to “Rising Up Against Injustice.” He is the former Galveston County Assistant District Attorney and the Former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Texas. Heiskell has a long list of accomplishments including being a 2015 inductee into the Texas Criminal Defense Lawyer’s Association Hall of Fame, achieving one of the top 50 settlements in Texas in 2017, being awarded the “Lawyer of the Year Award” for the Tarrant County Black Bar Association, and participating as a frequent speaker for all aspects of state and federal court practice. Heiskell is a coveted “Double Bear,” graduating from Baylor University in 1972 and Baylor Law in 1974. In 1970, Heiskell was one of just five black students attending Baylor. By the time he finished his undergraduate degree just two years later, that number had grown to nearly 100 — thanks in part to his own efforts. When Heiskell started at Baylor Law in 1972, he was the only black student, and when he graduated in 1974, he became the first black Baylor Law graduate — paving the way not only for future black students at Baylor University, but also at Baylor Law. Mark O’Mara Founder, O'Mara Law Group Mark O’Mara has been practicing law since 1983. O’Mara earned his J.D. from Florida State University College of Law and served as a prosecutor before becoming an Orlando defense attorney. O’Mara is Board Certified in Criminal Trial Law and Marital and Family Law. After gaining national recognition for leading the defense of George Zimmerman, Mark O’Mara became a legal analyst for CNN and the founder of Justice Outreach, a non-profit designed to identify and fix problems within the justice system. O’Mara is an advocate for change in state and national laws that lead to over prosecution of American citizens and O’Mara uses his voice to contribute to the national conversation about race, guns, self-defense, the media, and the criminal justice system. He has taught at the University of Central Florida, Florida State University School of Law, Duquesne School of Law, and Harvard Law School. He also served as president of the Seminole County Bar Association and as president of the Central Florida Family Law American Inn of Court. Michelle Simpson Tuegel (Moderator) Partner, The Simpson Tuegel Law Firm, PLLC A graduate of Baylor Law in 2010, Michelle Simpson Tuegel began her legal career in Central Texas practicing primarily in the area of criminal defense. During her years in criminal practice, Tuegel developed her skills in the courtroom and tried high-profile capital murder cases, sexual assault, kidnapping, arson, and federal felony drug cases. Her extensive courtroom experience honed her skills at trial and helped Tuegel develop a unique and empathetic approach to communicating with clients in traumatic and highly stressful situations. Through her significant experience in high profile cases, Tuegel also learned to be a voice for her clients not just in the courtroom, but also through different news and media outlets. A former world-ranked athlete in slalom water skiing, Tuegel now uses her naturally competitive drive to champion clients' cases and to relate to athletes, students, and injured people from all walks of life. After years of advocating for accused individuals in the criminal justice system, Tuegel decided to refocus her practice on representing victims and individuals who have been injured or wronged by companies and institutions in the civil court system. Specifically, she began representing victims of crime in civil lawsuits around the United States. Tuegel is one of the first attorneys to file a lawsuit connected to the October 2017 mass shooting in Las Vegas. Tuegel also recently represented former U.S. national team and Olympic gymnasts and college athletes who were sexually abused by the Olympic team's former doctor, Larry Nassar. Her clients are part of a multi-million dollar global settlement with Michigan State. Tuegel was named to The National Trial Lawyers' Top Trial Lawyers list, and to the Texas SuperLawyers Rising Star list for 2015-2018. Tuegel was also included in the Texas SuperLawyers Rising Star list "Up and Coming Top 100 Lawyers" and "Up and Coming Top 50 Women Lawyers." Tuegel has been asked to speak on Title IX, criminal defense, and civil trial issues around the country and is a frequent legal voice in the media, from CNN to USA Today. About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School