Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Experience SIPA Why SIPA? Be part of a distinctive community of students and scholars from around the globe. Take advantage of the resources of a premier urban university in the world's most exciting city. Enjoy hands-on learning opportunities both inside and outside the classroom. You are here Home Experience SIPA Welcome to SIPA—A message from Interim Dean Thomas J. Christensen Video of Welcome to SIPA—A message from Interim Dean Thomas J. Christensen New York City: A Global Hub Columbia University is a historic, internationally renowned institution in the world's most international city. We offer a combination of resources, access, and varied opportunity that no other policy school can match. Columbia & New York City United Nations Connections A Diverse, International Community In a typical year, SIPA students and faculty represent nearly 100 countries. More than half our students come from outside the United States, helping the School to maintain a vibrant, international environment. Our alumni community spans the globe, comprising more than 20,000 graduates worldwide. Student & Alumni Profiles Where Theory Meets Practice Capstone workshops require SIPA students to apply their skills and knowledge to a real-world challenge. You'll work with a small group of classmates to analyze an actual policy issue and recommend actions for a client organization. It's an invaluable learning experience that also gives you a leg up professionally. Capstones & Workshops Rigorous Academics and Research How do you move from theory to practice? Good policy is grounded in facts, and policymaking requires knowledge and savvy to get things done. Our full-time and adjunct faculty comprises nearly 300 distinguished scholars and practitioners who will share expertise and lessons from their wide-ranging careers. Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations Interdisciplinary Resources Your SIPA experience will be enhanced by the extensive resources of a great university. In any given year, you can choose from more than 1,000 courses across Columbia's acclaimed graduate schools. Remarkable libraries, academic centers, and other offerings round out our collective assets. Libraries & Campus Resources Centers & Institutes Come Experience SIPA for Yourself The opportunities to expand your intellectual, cultural, and social horizons are nearly limitless. Plan a visit to our Morningside Heights campus today and immerse yourself in our way of life. Visit SIPA Explore SIPA Stories SIPA’s faculty, staff, alumni, and students come form an international and diverse community. Explore Stories Connect with SIPA Attend an Information Session Request Information Meet a Current Student Share This Ella Watson-Stryker Video of Ella Watson-Stryker Alumni Spotlight You can work really hard and sometimes it’s not enough, but we have to keep trying because if we’re not trying, then no one else will. Ella Watson-Stryker MIA 09 Humanitarian Representative Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) Full Profile Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216