Skip to Main Content Brown University Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Research Climate Misinformation & Climate Policy Navigating the New Arctic Frontier Conservation in the Context of Climate Change Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Affiliation Student and Alumni Spotlights Sustainability Opportunities Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty People Core Faculty Elected Fellows & Affiliates Visiting Faculty Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Affiliates Administration Leadership Advisory Council News & Events News Archive Past Events Search Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Institute at Brown for Environment and Society IBES supports research to understand the interactions between natural, human and social systems. Our teaching programs prepare future leaders to envision and build a just and sustainable world. Empowering people, protecting places. Institute at Brown for Environment and Society IBES supports research to understand the interactions between natural, human and social systems. Our teaching programs prepare future leaders to envision and build a just and sustainable world. Empowering people, protecting places. At this dynamic cross-campus center, students and faculty conduct groundbreaking research and build creative solutions to complex 21st-century problems. Our work combines an understanding of the natural world and of human societies because environmental stewardship, human rights, and economic well-being are inextricably linked. Through our unique interdisciplinary approach, IBES fosters actionable research outcomes and the change agents of tomorrow. Our rigorous undergraduate curriculum offers meaningful real-world experiences and unique faculty-student partnerships. IBES faculty and students are leaders in the global conversation about environmental issues – on campus, at the State House, in boardrooms, and at the United Nations. What's Happening at IBES All News The Guardian Big oil’s ‘wokewashing’ is the new climate science denialism September 9, 2021 Academic researchers say the fossil fuel industry has a new tool to delay efforts to curb emissions – a social justice strategy Supported by guardian.org About this content Amy Westervelt @amywestervelt Thu 9 Sep 2021 06.00 EDT ExxonMobil has been touting its commitment to “reducing carbon emissions with innovative energy solutions”. Chevron would like to remind you it is keeping the lights on during this dark time. BP is going #NetZero, but is also very proud of the “digital innovations” on its new, enormous oil drilling platform in the Gulf of Mexico. Meanwhile Shell insists it really supports women in traditionally male-dominated jobs. A casual social media user might get the impression the fossil fuel industry views itself as a social justice warrior, fighting on behalf of the poor, the marginalized, and women – at least based on its marketing material in recent years. Read Article Open details for Big oil’s ‘wokewashing’ is the new climate science denialism EcoRI News History Shows U.S. Food System Leaves Behind People of Color August 13, 2021 Summer Gonsalves knows the ins and outs of the U.S. food system, and she knows exactly who it leaves behind. In an online workshop hosted by the Providence-based Southside Community Land Trust on Aug. 6, Gonsalves dug into the social and environmental factors that limit food access from seed and soil to the supermarket shelf. The U.S. food system, she said, has purposefully and unfailingly disconnected people of color from nutritious and affordable foods. Read Article Open details for History Shows U.S. Food System Leaves Behind People of Color News from Brown Brown professor who worked on massive climate change report shares key takeaways August 9, 2021 Brown professor Baylor Fox-Kemper discusses a landmark report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, for which he served as a coordinating lead author. Read Article Open details for Brown professor who worked on massive climate change report shares key takeaways Upcoming Events Possibly Podcast Looking at the science behind proposed solutions to environmental challenges, to help listeners cut through the noise and make choices that, possibly, will make a difference. Listen to all episodes Recent Episodes September 14, 2021 What can the US learn from France? September 7, 2021 How can we prepare for heat waves? August 31, 2021 What’s the impact of our constantly running refrigerators on the climate? What We Do Research Climate change and flooding, pathogens and poverty, conflict and extinction – these threats know no borders. Our fragile planet and its vulnerable peoples are at risk. This time of unprecedented challenge requires bold solutions and innovative thinking. Visit Page Open details for Research Education Brown students change the world. IBES helps them save the planet. Visit Page Open details for Education Sustainability Sustaining life on Earth requires change in the way we power our campuses and cities, how we incentivize reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and how we grow and distribute our food. Visit Page Open details for Sustainability Follow us on social media Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Contact Us Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Brown University Box 1951 85 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3449 Fax 401-863-3839 environment@brown.edu Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Research Climate Misinformation & Climate Policy Navigating the New Arctic Frontier Conservation in the Context of Climate Change Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Affiliation Student and Alumni Spotlights Sustainability Opportunities Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty People Core Faculty Elected Fellows & Affiliates Visiting Faculty Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Affiliates Administration Leadership Advisory Council News & Events News Archive Past Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Open details for Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Bookmark this Page