Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Alumni Menu Search Groups and Networks Alumni Affinity Groups Black Alumni Black Alumni of SMU Where Black Alumni across all academic programs have the opportunity to connect, network and be a part of cultivating the next generation of Mustangs. Together we can ensure that SMU is a welcoming community for all. Email us your contact information to receive Black Alumni of SMU updates. Join Attend events Join us for professional networking, social and cultural events. We hope to see you at our annual signature event the Black Excellence Ball. Along with the Association of Black Students, we bring together fellow alumni, students, staff, faculty, parents and friends. The evening is a tribute to Black leaders throughout SMU’s history and honors one or more deserving student scholarship recipients, recognizes exceptional students and celebrates the annual Black Alumni of SMU History Maker Award winner. Fund scholarship Black students make up 14% of 18- to 24-year-olds enrolled in a bachelor’s degree program but represent just 9% of bachelor’s degrees obtained by young adults. While 62% of white students finish their degree within six years of initial enrollment, only 38% of Black students finish college in the same timeframe. Economics play a key factor. In 2011, we established the Black Alumni Scholarship to help change this. Each year we work with the Association of Black Students (ABS) to award scholarships to deserving upperclassmen as they enter the final stretch of completing their SMU degrees. GIVE NOW Be a volunteer Apply here to become part of the Black Alumni of SMU Board. Want to nominate an alum for membership? Click here. Become a mentor. The Black Alumni of SMU Mentorship Program provides a platform for sharing your expertise and experience with students. SMU Alumni Relations and Engagement, the Hegi Family Career Development Center and the Office of Social Change and Intercultural Engagement are working together to create rewarding opportunities for alumni and student participants. Click here for information about becoming a mentor. Students who wish to participate as a mentee in the program can click here for more information. Make history If you know someone who is a game changer, let us know. We recognize this year’s Black Alumni History Maker Award at the Black Excellence Ball in February. Tell us about an extraordinary SMU alumnus or alumna who excels at what they do or has gone great lengths to support an organization or cause. Nominations Due Monday, January 11, 2021: https://blog.smu.edu/alumninews/historymaker/ Read more alumni stories 2020 History Maker Award Winner: Regina Taylor Get involved Mentorship Volunteer Facebook 2021/2022 Black Alumni of SMU Board We serve the SMU Black alumni community and seek to cultivate a more positive experience for students of color at SMU. To learn more about our involvement with the Black Unity Forum and its social justice initiatives, click here. Know someone who should be a Black Alumni of SMU Leader? Apply Nominate Malcolm McGuire '14 Chair, Executive Committee Jasmine Culpepper Tobias '06, '15 Planning Committee Keisha Rivers '95 Volunteer Engagement Committee Chad Pendarves '19 Chair, Mustangs Give Back Committee Keenan Holman '15 Chair, Planning Committee Aneshia Campbell '07 Chair, Volunteer Engagement Committee Ashley White '06 Chair-Elect, Executive Committee Ramon Flanigan '97 Mustangs Give Back Committee Robert Seals '15 Mustangs Give Back Committee Chase Drexler '20 Mustangs Give Back Committee, YA Ex-Officio Lexi Broadnax '20 Planning Committee Deborah Burgess '87 Planning Committee KC Nlemchi '15 Planning Committee Ashantis Houston '05 Volunteer Engagement Committee Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Groups and Networks Regional Alumni Networks Alumni Affinity Groups Golden Mustangs SMU Network Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Update your info Events Upcoming Events 50-Year Reunion Homecoming Distinguished Alumni Awards Taos Cultural Institute SMU Alumni Travel Program Volunteer Opportunities Alumni Board Young Alumni Board Black Alumni Board Hispanic Alumni Board Asian Pacific Islander Alumni Board Hilltop Volunteers Career Mentoring Admission Volunteers Class Ambassadors Regional Chapter Leaders News and Stories Featured Stories Mustangs in the Wild SMU News Class Notes SMU Magazine SMU Stories Resources Hegi Career Center Continuing Education Order a transcript SMU Bookstore Alumni Credit Card Alumni Insurance Program Refer a Mustang SMU Alumni Relations Giving Give now Alumni Giving SMU Giving Day Mustang Crowdfunding News Athletics SMU Store Cox Alumni Dedman Alumni Dedman Law Alumni Meadows Alumni Perkins Simmons Alumni Update your info Submit a class note Give Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search