COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Accountancy - Accounting Information Systems, Master's Master'sAccountancy - Accounting Information Systems All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business School of Accountancy The AACSB-accredited Master of Accountancy (MACC)—accounting information systems concentration—from WSU’s Barton School, combines an in-depth study of accountancy with exposure to management information systems—equipping you with the skills and knowledge you’ll need for career advancement, or a career switch, in the public or private sector. Learn how Accountancy - Accounting Information Systems is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Full admission to the MACC professional curriculum requires: An undergraduate degree in accounting, or the functional equivalent, from an AACSB-accredited institution. An overall grade point average (GPA) of 3.200 on a 4.000 scale. A grade of B (3.000) or better in all undergraduate accounting courses. For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program State-of-the-art building planned for business school Plans to build a new, state-of-the-art building for the Barton School of Business got a boost with a $1 million donation. Once built, the 136,000-square-foot complex will replace Clinton Hall, constructed in 1970. It will be designed to foster collaboration among students, faculty and partners in the business community, as well as provide students with more internship opportunities. Curriculum In addition to the traditional master’s degree in accounting, the Barton School also offers two specialized concentrations: accounting information systems (AIS) and taxation. The MACC program requires a minimum of 30 hours depending on your academic background. Students without a bachelor’s degree in accounting can expect to complete additional hours for their MACC degree. Courses are offered during the evening to accommodate adult learners. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in accountancy from Wichita State's Barton School will help you take the next step in your career—while opening doors to new possibilities. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Business Administration (Master's) Economics (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©