Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Engineering Career Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search College of Engineering Home Page About Career Services Home Who We Are Mission & Policies Other ISU Career Services Students Current Students Future Students Employers Alumni Faculty & Staff Statistics (Outcomes & Salary) CyHire Student Login Alumni Login Employer Login Faculty Login System Manager Login Home Welcome to Engineering Career Services at Iowa State University We take pride in helping ISU engineering students and alumni plan, prepare for, and launch successful careers. Additionally, we enjoy helping employers connect with ISU’s great engineering talent. We are dedicated to equal employment opportunity and follow the guidelines established by the National Association of Colleges and Employers. Please use the menu at the top and the quick links to explore the information we have prepared for you. News and Announcements Engineering Career Services is on Instagram! Click here to follow us and stay up to date on what’s going on in Engineering Career Services! Save the Date! Join us for the Fall 2022 College of Engineering Career Fairs Join us for the Fall 2022 Engineering Career Fairs! Registration will open in mid-July through CyHire! Wednesday, September 14, 2022, 12 PM- 5 PM (Scheman Building )* Tuesday, September 20, 2022, 12 PM- 5 PM (Scheman Building and Hilton Coliseum)* Virtual Fair- Thursday, September 29, 2022, 10 AM- 2 PM (Virtually through CyHire) Please click Career Fair Information for Employers for more information and details on the Fall 2022 Engineering Career Fairs *Please note that our ability to offer the in-person option may change and guidelines for the in-person fair may be modified as the COVID-19 situation and corresponding federal, state, local, and institutional guidance continues to evolve. Student Applies ME Knowledge to Develop Prosthetics for Amputee Athletes “Dunn recently completed an internship with Amputee Blade Runners, a Nashville-based nonprofit that provides prosthetic devices for amputee runners or for amputees who simply want to be more active…” New Major in Environmental Engineering Environmental Engineering is a new major now offered at Iowa State. More information can be found here. ME Alum Started Career with Rolls-Royce at Career Fair “From career fair to dream job”: Mechanical Engineering alum, Sarah Walter, has held a 16-year international career with Rolls-Royce that all began with a conversation at a career fair during her first semester at Iowa State. View Archived News and Announcements COVID-19: Moving Forward Career Fair Information Student Quick Links Resume Advice Cover Letter Advice Schedule an Advising Appointment Career Prep in Canvas Career Development Presentations Tips for Using CyHire Student Guide to Employment Internships & Co-ops Additional Info for Grad Students Rights and Policies CyHire Login Students/Alum Connect Follow us on Instagram Contact Information Engineering Career Services 3200 Marston Hall Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011 E-mail: ecs@iastate.edu Phone: 515 294-2540 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram MyState Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...