Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print New wayfinding system being introduced for Princeton Julie Clack, Office of Communications May 10, 2022, 3:12 p.m. In an effort to help the campus community and University visitors better navigate Princeton’s expanding campus, new, accessible map kiosks have been installed at key campus entries, in time for Reunions and Commencement. As a way of orienting users to Princeton’s campus, each kiosk features detailed maps with identifiable landmarks, such as buildings and works of art. During the University’s busiest times of construction, the kiosks will be updated every four to six months to reflect construction-related closures and reopenings. The kiosks are the first phase of the University’s new campus wayfinding system, which will be rolled out gradually over the next few months. In order to develop the wayfinding system, Princeton partnered with the global design firm Applied Information Group, which has designed wayfinding systems for cities such as London, Madrid and Rio de Janeiro, and institutions such as the Metropolitan Museum of Art and Central Park. “One of our priorities in the current generation of campus design is to ensure that all aspects of the Princeton campus are welcome and inviting to visitors and the campus community,” said University Architect Ron McCoy. “We have created a map-based system that identifies every building on campus — a single map system that can be used on all platforms, whether they be kiosks, paper maps handed out by the Office of Admission, or digital maps that will be available online and on mobile devices.” Three types of new pedestrian wayfinding signs are shown here in renderings. Photo courtesy of Applied Information Group Working with representatives from Campus Life, the Office of Communications, University Services and Nassau Hall, Applied Information and the Facilities team, led by Aaron Feldman and Dan Casey, held multiple naming workshops aimed at ways to make navigating campus more intuitive. The new map incorporates campus "neighborhoods," for instance, "which help users orient themselves and locate all campus destinations," McCoy said. "For example, if I want to meet an out-of-town colleague at Firestone Library, I can direct them to the “Nassau” neighborhood, where they would find a detailed map of the destinations in that part of campus.” Campus maps featuring neighborhood names are designed to help community members and visitors navigate. Photo courtesy of Applied Information Group According to McCoy, each kiosk will identify its campus neighborhood and will include a map of the overall campus as well as a detailed map of that particular neighborhood. The neighborhood maps will identify steep pathways and accessible entries. They also offer a QR code that allow users to display the map on their mobile device. New signage is also being installed to make neighborhood, building and path names clearer. High-traffic walks such as McCosh, Shapiro and Goheen will have new, more visible path name signs installed on campus light columns. Some interior campus roads are getting new street signs and in some cases names to make navigation easier. The Stadium Neighborhood will be the first to get those, during the 2022–2023 academic year, once construction is completed and third parties like Google and ESRI process the changes. The names have already been published on the new campus maps to align with the wayfinding strategy. Alongside those efforts, the University is also developing a new, interactive digital campus map to replace maps currently on Princeton Mobile, TigerApps or web-based maps. That interactive map will support, among other things, accessible routing and live event data specifically attached to the relevant location on the map. Printed maps that will be distributed by the Admission Information Center and Service Point are designed for visitors and prospective students touring campus. Photo courtesy of Applied Information Group Related Stories Details of Arts and Transit Project schedule discussed at campus meeting Read more Summer construction includes completion of three new facilities Read more Elements of new Frick lab join to create 'best infrastructure' for chemistry Read more Princeton launches updated mobile website Read more Plans moving ahead for science neighborhood Read more Architecture of new Lewis Arts complex embraces 'campus-making but also community-making' Read more Renovation begins on economics and international programs building at 20 Washington Road Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice