Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student Career Services Contact Us Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. About Students Employers Alumni Facts and Figures Contact Us About Students Employers Alumni Facts and Figures Contact Us Contact Us Career Services Team Location: 722 West 168th Street, Suite 1040 (rooms C & D) General Email: msphocs [at] cumc.columbia.edu Heather Krasna, PhD, MS, EdM, Assistant Dean, Career Services Heather (she/her) has 23+ years’ experience as a career coach. She is co-author of the book 101+ Careers in Public Health, (3rd Ed) and also wrote Jobs That Matter: Find a Stable, Fulfilling Career in Public Service. She has worked at the University of Washington and CUNY, and as an executive coach and recruiter. She holds a PhD in public health from Maastricht University, an MS in Nonprofit Management from the New School, and EdM from Teachers College Columbia University. The title of her doctoral dissertation was "Public Health Graduates in the United States: Employment Outcomes and Employer Demand," and she has published several journal articles on the public health workforce. She is a Certified MBTI Practitioner, Diversity Recruiter, and Employment Interview Professional, and serves on the National Consortium for Public Health Workforce Development. Specializations: Executives, Career changers, PhD students, alumni, employment outcomes data Phone: 212-305-1548 Email: hk2778 [at] cumc.columbia.edu masako hashimoto, MS, NCC, LMHC, Assistant Director, Career Services Masako (she/her/hers), received an MS in Mental Health Counseling from Walden University in Minneapolis and a BA from Hitotsubashi University in Tokyo, Japan. Over the past 10 years, prior to joining Columbia Mailman, she worked at the Purchase College State University of New York and the University of Connecticut School of Business, holding several roles including Coordinator of Education Abroad for the Office of International Programs & Services, Career Counselor, and Alumni Career Counselor & Instructor. Prior to her higher education experience, she worked in industry in international business and marketing in IT solutions. Masako is a National Certified Counselor, Professional Coach/Career Coach, Licensed Mental Health Counselor in New York, and Certified Professional Resume Writer. She also runs a social skill training group on weekends, especially for people on the spectrum. Email: mh4274 [at] cumc.columbia.edu Jason ross, MA, PCC, Assistant Director, Career Services Jason (he/him) is a seasoned, leader, coach, and facilitator. Jason's approach with coaching is firmly based on effective listening and collaboration with clients to help them create and achieve their goals. Passionate about leadership and professional development, Jason has been coaching and mentoring individuals and groups in the federal government, consulting field, and academia for over 10 years. Jason enjoys helping clients prepare holistic, impactful, and succinct messaging to their respective audiences. Jason worked as a Career Coach at Georgetown University, and, as Management Consultant for a Washington D.C.-based firms where he advised several public sector clients on large-scale human capital transformations. Prior to consulting Jason was an officer in the United States Air Force where he specialized in human resource management and rapid force deployments. He holds an Executive Certificate in Leadership Coaching from Georgetown University and an MA and a BA both from Norwich University. Email: jr4233 [at] cumc.columbia.edu ( ) Henryne Tobias, Ed.M., Assistant Director, Career Services Henryne Tobias has 20+ years’ experience in career development with a specialization in health-related careers. Prior to joining the Mailman School of Public Health, Henryne was a Career Counselor at Pace University and Adjunct Pre-Health Post Baccalaureate Advisor at Hunter College. For 13 years, she founded and led a project called ExploreHealthCareers.org, designed to motivate and inspire students to pursue a broad range of health care careers. She earned a Master of Education degree from Teachers College, Columbia University. Specializations: Advising premed students Phone: 212-342-3600 Email: hg2105 [at] cumc.columbia.edu Career Services also brings in occasional adjunct career coaches. Contact msphocs [at] cumc.columbia.edu to learn more about their backgrounds or log in to CareerLink for their bios. eea2137 [at] cumc.columbia.edu () Field Practice Team Location: Suite B2 of Tower 1, (60 Haven Avenue), within the Department of Population and Family Health General Email: msph-ofp [at] cumc.columbia.edu Cassie Landers, Ed.D., MPH, interim associate dean of field practice; Faculty Lead, General Public Health Cassie has over 20 years of professional experience in international Child health and development. She has worked with UNICEF and other international agencies to promote policies and program in support of young children and their families. She is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Population; Faculty Lead, General Public Health; and Director of the DrPH Program. She teaches courses in child development and global health. Cassie holds a Doctorate in Education and a Master’s in Public Health from Harvard University. Specializations: IRB Pre-screening; International, School-wide, and Domestic practicum with special focus on DrPH and Accelerated students Phone: 212-304-7313 Email: cl689 [at] cumc.columbia.edu Ana Jiménez-Bautista, LMSW, Director of Field Practice Ana Jiménez-Bautista, LMSW, is the Director of Field Practice at the Office of Careers and Practice. Ana has worked for Columbia University/NYPH for over 25 years in a variety of roles, including the coordination of community education and outreach for community and school-based clinics; and international internship/exchange programs. Ana’s life-long mission is to contribute to the improvement of the human condition and the reduction of health and wellness disparities. Specializations: General practicum support, development and implementation of new domestic and international practicum sites, coordination of international school-wide sites; and community, faculty, and staff support regarding practicum. Phone: 212-305-5157 Email: Aj2168 [at] cumc.columbia.edu Nery Gonzalez, MPH, LMSW, Administrative Director for Field Practice Nery Gonzalez, MPH, LMSW has over 20 years professional experience working in the fields of public health and social work, focusing on programs supporting children, adolescents and their families. She is the Administrative Director for Field Practice within the Office of Careers and Practice and is an alumna of the Mailman School of Public Health. Nery coordinates the Puerto Rico Interpofessional Education Fellowship, and assists students in exploring practicum and other fellowship learning opportunities that contribute to their public health training. She provides administrative support in facilitating practicum stipends and Scope of Work related issues. Specializations: Puerto Rico Fellowship, Interprofessional education, practicum stipends Phone: 646-354-3214 Email: ng85 [at] cumc.columbia.edu More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 For Wetland Plants, Sea-Level Rise Stamps Out Benefits of Higher CO2May 18 2022 Survey Finds High Rates of Depression Among Latin American Health Care ProvidersMay 18 2022 Commencement Ceremony Celebrates Class of 2022May 17 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers