Who We Are About Us Our Programs During COVID-19 Our History Our Staff Our Students Our Alumni Our Collaborators Job Openings On The Farm The Yale Farm Open Workdays Teaching and Learning Yale Farm Summer Internship knead 2 know In the classroom Studying Food & Agriculture Courses in Food & Agriculture Undergraduates Graduate Students Around The World A Global Perspective Chewing the Fat Global Food Fellowship Harvest Pre-Orientation Program Podcast Series Connect With Us Events Voices Newsletter Contribute Newsletter Sign-up Events Contact Us Yale Sustainable Food Program Who We Are About Us Our Programs During COVID-19 Our History Our Staff Our Students Our Alumni Our Collaborators Job Openings On The Farm The Yale Farm Open Workdays Teaching and Learning Yale Farm Summer Internship knead 2 know In the classroom Studying Food & Agriculture Courses in Food & Agriculture Undergraduates Graduate Students Around The World A Global Perspective Chewing the Fat Global Food Fellowship Harvest Pre-Orientation Program Podcast Series Connect With Us Events Voices Newsletter Contribute On The Farm The Yale Farm Open Workdays Teaching and Learning Yale Farm Summer Internship knead 2 know Open Workdays Summer Workday Hours We are pleased to welcome visitors to the Yale Farm for Friday workdays on the Farm. During the summer, workdays take place from 9:30 AM – 12:00 PM. You may drop by for any length of time during the workday. RSVPs are not required. Please mark your calendars for the following dates: Friday, June 17th Friday, June 24th Friday, July 8th Friday, July 15th Friday, July 22nd Friday, July 29th Friday, August 5th You can also stay up-to-date on opportunities at the Yale Farm by subscribing to our newsletter and following us on Instagram. In accordance with Yale University’s policies, COVID-19 vaccination (including booster, if eligible) is required for visitors five and older. You may be asked to present proof of vaccination. Updates on Yale’s policies regarding COVID-19 can be found here. Open Workday Guidelines Everyone, including non-Yale affiliates, is welcome to participate in open workdays on the Yale Farm. No gardening experience is necessary. Just bring a water bottle and wear weather- and work-appropriate clothing. Participants are welcome to drop-in on a come-and-go basis, but we ask that you stay at least 30 minutes for planned tasks. If you are a group of more than five people, please give us a week’s notice of your planned visit: call us at (203) 432-2084 or email sustainablefood@yale.edu. If you are coming with fewer than five people, no advance notice is necessary. Once you’ve arrived, find a student intern wearing a YSFP t-shirt. These interns are in charge of the workday, and they will sign you in and explain the day’s work before assigning you a task. What you’ll do depends on the day and the season. On a fall Friday you might be helping to harvest tomatoes, eggplant, broccoli and kale; an early winter Sunday might find you planting garlic and tulips for spring. Feel free to ask questions of the interns in charge – we want you to learn as well as work! We do not offer community service hours for our open workdays, but other urban farming and food organizations in New Haven do. Check out Common Ground High School, New Haven Farms, the Love Fed Initiative, Massaro Farm, and the New Haven Land Trust. Group or School Tours of the Yale Farm We are happy to accept applications for group visits of up to 20 people to the Yale Farm. Visits normally include a farm tour and a specialized farm task, both led by a member of our outstanding student staff. To register for a group visit, please email jeremy.oldfield@yale.edu. Our staff will respond to your request within five business days. Because group visits are dependent upon student availability, we’re sorry that we cannot accommodate every request. With rare exceptions, our pizza oven is unavailable for group visits. Group programing is free of charge for Yale-affiliated groups, New Haven Public Schools, West Haven Public Schools, and Orange Public Schools. All other groups are charged a $25 flat-rate fee. Financial aid is available upon request. Getting to the Farm The Yale Farm is about a fifteen-minute walk from central campus: walk up College Street, and continue north as it crosses Grove to become Prospect Street. From Prospect Street, turn right on Edwards just past Science Hill. The Farm will be on your left at 345 Edwards Street; look for the sign at the gate. Yale’s Blue Line Shuttle (northbound) and Red Line Shuttle (southbound) both serve the Yale Farm at the stop at Chemistry/225 Whitney. Click here to see the Shuttle locations in real-time and get the most up-to-date shuttle route and stop information. If you are driving, parking is available at the Leitner Observatory, at 355 Prospect Street. Back to Top Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2020 Yale University · All rights reserved Photography by Logan Howard ’21, Noa Hines ’21, and Sol Thompson ’22.