Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Campus Recreation About Us Membership Fitness Nutrition Wellness Aquatics & Safety Sports & Intramurals Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About About Hours Contact Us News & Updates FAQ Parking Employment Rules & Responsibilities Emergency Procedures Take Action Find a Fitness Class Hours of Operation Sign Up for a Membership Contact Us Connect with Us InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Campus Recreation About Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Frequently Asked Questions When are you open? Check out our hours of operation. Hours may change due to University holidays or closure. If I am not a faculty/staff member or student at the University of Memphis, may I have a membership at Campus Recreation? Yes, you may become an individual, household, alumni or community member of the facility for a fee which includes full facility use and limited guest access. Memberships are sold online only. See our Membership page for more information. I'm a UofM alumnus. Can I use the Wellness Center? Yes, you may purchase an alumni membership. Call 901.678.3467 for more information. How do I complete a membership application? Visit our Membership page and choose the membership for which you qualify. Click the "Enroll Now" button. Where can I park? Students, faculty and staff with a UofM parking permit can park in the lot or garage adjacent to the R. Brad Martin Wellness Center (Southern Ave. and Houston St.). For all others, there are a limited number of metered parking spaces on the east side the adjacent lot facing the facility/pool. You can purchase monthly and daily parking passes through the UofM Parking Office. The Parking Office is located on Zach Curlin Street on left side of the parking garage. For more information, call 901.678.2212 or visit Parking Services online. Bikes racks are also available. Bikes must be placed in bike racks, not in facilities or on stair hand rails. What programs are included with membership? We offer a variety of programs including group fitness classes (free to students and members), and personal training (offered at a reduced rate to students and members). Why doesn't my ID work when scanned at the Wellness Center? Reasons could include: Your ID is expired or you're no longer a member. Student fees need to be paid. You have a Household Membership but your child is now over 26 years old. You are a faculty or staff member with no membership Faculty/staff can use the facility without membership by paying $5 per visit with valid ID (identify your status at the entry). You're a part-time student (with less than 6 hrs). Part-time students pay $3 per visit at the Wellness Center; identify yourself as part-time at the entry. You have a University Guest ID card. You don't have recreation privileges. You are a current IEI student who has not paid the fee to activate Center access privileges. You need to pay Activity Fees at the Bursar's Office to access the Wellness Center. You're a UofM faculty or staff and going to class as a UofM student at the University. You may have dual status. Faculty/staff status has priority over student status, causing the ID to not scan correctly. Identify yourself as dual status at the entry and speak with a supervisor to gain access. How many guests may I bring? Guests are not allowed at this time. Do I need my ID to go to my academic P.E. class in the Wellness Center? Yes. The first time you forget your ID, you will be asked to sign in and be escorted to your instructor. The next time you forget your ID, a $5 fee will be required. Help! I lost my ID! Items found are kept for 24 hours, then logged in and sent to the Bursar's Office or Student Conduct, depending on the situation. If your old ID was replaced, it will no longer work if a new one is made. We confiscate duplicate IDs and all non-working IDs. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.