Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Procurement and Payment Services Menu About Our Approach Contact Us Our Services Buying Goods or Services Paying for Goods or Services Requesting New Suppliers Buy & Pay Guide Preferred and Contracted Suppliers ITS Purchasing Guidelines Sending Flowers Policy Floral Request Form Catering Purchasing Card Authorized & Unauthorized Purchases Termination, Transfer and Account Closure Expensing PCard Charges PCard Increase Form Travel & Expense Baylor Travel Agencies and General Guidelines The Travel Process Expense Travel Forms Submit Expense Report Preferred Local Hotel Program Charter Bus Contracts The Contracting Process Total Contract Manager (TCM) For Suppliers Invoice Requirements Prospective Suppliers Unauthorized Purchases Bid Opportunities Standard Purchase Order Terms Resources Forms Training & Job Aids FAQs Purchasing Card Baylor>Procurement and Payment Services>Purchasing Card Purchasing Card Important Policy Information Purchasing Card Policy Welcome to Baylor University's Purchasing Card program! We hope you find it helpful in conducting business for the University. Please do not hesitate to ask questions regarding any aspect of this program. The Purchasing Card is provided to eligible employees and designed to help streamline the procurement and payment processes for small purchases. The Purchasing Card is a privilege granted to departmental faculty and staff that must be used in a responsible and appropriate manner. Only eligible direct University business expenses may be charged; personal purchases are strictly prohibited. All transactions must be supported by a detailed business purpose and by proof of purchase documentation. Fraudulent or intentional misuse of the card will result in revocation of the card, personnel actions against the Cardholder, and/or possible criminal charges. Baylor University's Office of Internal Audit will conduct periodic audits of Cardholder's documentation. Eligibility A cardholder is authorized by the Business Unit/Entity Approver. Eligibility is based on the following criteria: Must read and sign the Cardholder Agreement, Must complete the required online training prior to receiving their card, Must complete annual trainings or card will be terminated Application The Baylor employee must complete and submit an application form with appropriate department and Business Officer approvals. The employee will be expected to read these procedures and required to sign the appropriate user agreement indicating the employee understands the procedures and the responsibilities of a Cardholder. Purchasing Card Application Purchasing Card User Agreement Training The requested card should be delivered to Procurement Services within 10 business days after application approval. However, cards will not be issued to the employee until successfully completing the required training courses. Cardholders Responsibilities Cardholders are responsible for all charges made on their card. The Cardholder that completes an approved application and receives their name embossed on the card is the only authorized user, no other person is authorized to use that card. Cardholders must read, understand and follow this policy and accompanying procedures. Cardholders may initiate transactions on behalf of others in his/her department; however, Cardholders are responsible for purchasing only eligible goods and services as described in this document; obtaining required documentation; and ensuring charges to restricted funds are following the terms and/or conditions of the fund. Cardholders with questions about whether certain expenditures are allowed on restricted funds must direct questions to their University Research Associate (URA) or dean’s office. Cardholders must ensure all transactions are familiar and reasonable, perform a detailed review or delegate detailed review to a designee, and provide all receipts to a reviewer before reconciling the transaction. Purchasing Card Authorized & Unauthorized Purchases Termination, Transfer and Account Closure Expensing PCard Charges PCard Increase Form Procurement and Payment Services One Bear Place #97084 Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-1561 Procurement_Services@baylor.edu General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Our Approach Contact Us Our Services Buying Goods or Services Paying for Goods or Services Requesting New Suppliers Buy & Pay Guide Preferred and Contracted Suppliers ITS Purchasing Guidelines Sending Flowers Policy Floral Request Form Catering Purchasing Card Authorized & Unauthorized Purchases Termination, Transfer and Account Closure Expensing PCard Charges PCard Increase Form Travel & Expense Baylor Travel Agencies and General Guidelines The Travel Process Expense Travel Forms Submit Expense Report Preferred Local Hotel Program Charter Bus Contracts The Contracting Process Total Contract Manager (TCM) For Suppliers Invoice Requirements Prospective Suppliers Unauthorized Purchases Bid Opportunities Standard Purchase Order Terms Resources Forms Training & Job Aids FAQs