Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Student Life Menu About A Message from the Vice President Office of the Vice President Leadership Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Sharra Hynes Jim Marsh Elizabeth D. Palacios Burt Burleson Office of the VP Staff Zach Mills Sandra Northern Janet Green Tom Barnard Strategic Plan 2020-21 Student Life Annual Report Student Life Spotlight Student Engagement Student Activities Campus Living (Housing) New Student Programs Student Conduct Administration Ombuds to Students Student Foundation Fraternity and Sorority Life Spiritual Life Worship Baptist Student Ministries Missions Pastoral Care Community & Culture Multicultural Affairs Diversity at Baylor Student Health & Wellness Campus Recreation Counseling Services Health Services Wellness Care Team 24/7 Care (Tele-Health) Resources Follow Us on Social Media Student Life YouTube What's New BU What's New BU Submission What's New BU Archive WNBU Submission Guidelines Off Campus Housing HESA Program Ombuds to Students Statement on Hazing GameDay for Students We're Hiring Make a Gift Baylor>Student Life>Resources>What's New BU>WNBU Submission Guidelines WNBU Submission Guidelines Who can submit events? Postings should meet these criteria for inclusion: Student groups whose event has already been approved in Baylor Connect. Any official department on campus. All events should be open to the entire campus community, accommodate at least 25 individuals, and appeal to a broad audience (for example, individual club meetings on campus are likely too small in scope to be appropriate for the What's New BU emails.). University-sanctioned activities and events held on campus by outside organizations. All postings must be consistent with the Baylor mission and values. Student Life events and promotions are given priority over other University events and Student Organizations. Inclusion of events and promotions is at the discretion of the Student Life leadership and space availability. When should I submit my information? Friday at 8 a.m. is the deadline for emails coming out the next Monday. What if I want to advertise something that isn’t an event? The format of the emails is chronological running Monday – Sunday with a section at the end called “Awesome Opportunities.” If you are submitting information that is not an event (i.e. job applications, symposium registrations, etc.), your post will be included in the “Awesome Opportunities” section. Posts of this type fall further down the email. This is by design as the emails are intended primarily to increase student engagement through University events for that week. Can my event be advertised more than one week? Because these emails are designed to act as a weekly calendar of events for the students, we do not include more than a single week’s calendar. Students are extremely busy, and getting the information in front of them more than a week in advance does not necessarily improve attendance. Information provided in the “Awesome Opportunities” section (i.e., job applications, conference registrations, etc.) should not run for more than two weeks. If an upcoming event requires ticket sales or volunteer requests, we can both advertise for the upcoming event as well as solicit a call to action in a post in the "Awesome Opportunities" section. What can I do to draw attention to my event? The best practices you should follow include: 1. Give your post a catchy headline. “Have a blast at Six Flags with Student Activities!” is better than “Student Activities Trip.” 2. Keep your event description concise. No one will read more than a sentence or two. There is a 300 character limit in the submission form to help keep your information within an appropriate length. 3. Provide a link to more information. (This does not have to be a link to a Baylor website. It could be a link to a guest speaker’s biography or other information. It can even be a link to a PDF file sitting in your campus Box if you don’t have a website.) Providing more information helps interested students learn more about your event and helps keep the email more concise. Resources Follow Us on Social Media Student Life YouTube What's New BU What's New BU Submission What's New BU Archive WNBU Submission Guidelines Off Campus Housing HESA Program Ombuds to Students Statement on Hazing GameDay for Students Division of Student Life McLane Student Life Center One Bear Place #97016 Waco, TX 76798-7016 (254) 710-1314 StudentLife@baylor.edu EventsGiveNewsletter General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About A Message from the Vice President Office of the Vice President Leadership Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Sharra Hynes Jim Marsh Elizabeth D. Palacios Burt Burleson Office of the VP Staff Zach Mills Sandra Northern Janet Green Tom Barnard Strategic Plan 2020-21 Student Life Annual Report Student Life Spotlight Student Engagement Student Activities Campus Living (Housing) New Student Programs Student Conduct Administration Ombuds to Students Student Foundation Fraternity and Sorority Life Spiritual Life Worship Baptist Student Ministries Missions Pastoral Care Community & Culture Multicultural Affairs Diversity at Baylor Student Health & Wellness Campus Recreation Counseling Services Health Services Wellness Care Team 24/7 Care (Tele-Health) Resources Follow Us on Social Media Student Life YouTube What's New BU What's New BU Submission What's New BU Archive WNBU Submission Guidelines Off Campus Housing HESA Program Ombuds to Students Statement on Hazing GameDay for Students We're Hiring Make a Gift