Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home News 2022 Grad Profile: Ohad Klopman Profile 2022 Grad Profile: Ohad Klopman April 27, 2022 Ohad Klopman Joint Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary (JTS) Where are you from? Framingham, Massachusetts Major: Political science - statistics Tell us about your path to GS! As a joint-degree student, I’ve had a more traditional journey for a GS’er. In high school, I was a massive political junkie. I volunteered on campaigns, participated in my city's government, and led my high school's Model Congress team. In my freshman year of college, I didn't think twice about studying political science. Since then, I've gotten the chance to explore so many hobbies, interests, and career opportunities. I've been a photographer, an actor, a data analyst, a management consultant, and a nonprofit executive. What has been your proudest Columbia moment? For me, leading Global Research and Consulting (GRC) Group at Columbia was the most impactful experience I've had in college. GRC is a student-led nonprofit consulting firm with over 80 members at Columbia, and partner branches at 20 other universities worldwide. In my third year at GS, I was chosen to be president of our branch. In that role, I led weekly workshops on all sorts of consulting skills, everything from fundraising strategy, to impact evaluation, to how to make a compelling slide deck. GRC pushed me to learn more than I ever thought possible about the nonprofit sector, and getting to work with real nonprofit clients gave me an opportunity to make an impact while advancing my career. Since then, I've gone on to lead GRC as its international CEO, where I've learned even more and developed strategies to help even more people. Who are some people who have contributed the most to your Columbia experience? I have to give my thanks to Professor John Sivolella in the political science department. After transferring to GS, Professor Sivolella's seminar on U.S. Presidential Powers was the first class I took. His class was challenging but endlessly fascinating, and he pushed me to improve my research and writing skills in ways that have helped me throughout my undergraduate career. What are your plans for after graduation? Having spent so much time at Columbia at the intersection of data and social impact, I knew that I wanted to continue working in that industry after I graduated. I'm lucky that through GS I met a friend and partner who joined me to found a nonprofit dedicated to helping other charitable organizations become data-driven. Our nonprofit is called DonorLab, and after I graduate, I will continue building it up! What advice would you give to a Columbia student starting their GS journey? There are so many resources at Columbia in general, and specific to GS, that can help you do pretty much anything. And practically everyone, whether they're students, faculty, advisors, or staff, is so easy to access and so willing to offer advice. There's never going to be a time when you need to do something alone! Tags Student Profile Dual and Joint Degree Programs News May 27, 2022 Join Us: Columbia Reunion Weekend in New York City May 26, 2022 Lewisohn Hall Summer Closure | Summer 2022 Temporary Relocation to Uris Hall May 26, 2022 Postbac Premed Program Institutional Scholarship Application May 24, 2022 GS Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Ceremony May 24, 2022 Academic Resource Center Summer Offerings Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close