Skip to main content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research ServicesWe're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities and social sciences collections. Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Accessibility Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean's Council for Equiy and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major or course who wants to help! Teaching Support Working together with faculty, we can help design and implement effective research experiences for students. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Jones Media Center Collections Course Reserves Public Screening Equipment Loans Spaces Media Project Showcase Software Tutorials Workshops Work @ Jones Staff Directory Hours About Us Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Welcome to the Jones Media Center! Innovation, Collaboration, and Recreation Reserve A Room Reserve Equipment How can we help you today? Looking for videos? Course Reserves: Find assigned videos with a simple search of course number or faculty name To locate other videos, use the search box at the top of this page, OR Browse media collections: By genre and language Resources for Faculty Course Reserves: Information about course reserves and forms to request reserves for the current or upcoming term. Media Projects at Dartmouth: Find advice and view past course projects Multimedia Resources Guide: A wealth of information for you and your students. Need a place to work or study? Learn more about all of our facilities on our Spaces page. Need a teaching space? A presentation space? A light-duty studio space? The Innovation Studio transforms easily between a teaching and presentation space, and a small black-box filming studio. The Innovation Studio also features an 8-screen video wall for greater impact and multi-source viewing. (Reserve) Starting a new multimedia project? Equipment: We have a wide variety of consumer and prosumer audio and video equipment available to borrow for free. Equipment pick up and return is available Monday - Friday from 10:00 am - 4:00 pm. Equipment check-out, pick up, or return is NOT available on Saturdays or Sundays. Find out more on our equipment page. Software: Our lab machines feature the latest software for your media projects. Learn more. Need help or training? We are offering in-person and remote digital media workshops for students, faculty and staff! Zoom sessions and in-person workshops cover online resources, media equipment instruction, introduction to editing software and more. If you're interested but unsure of how to go about assigning a media project through remote teaching and learning or in person, we can help! We are also offering 'Workshops on Demand'. We will conduct media workshops for 5 or more people on a variety of software such as iMovie, Final Cut Pro, Adobe Premiere and more! Just email us at Jones.Media.Center@Dartmouth.edu for a consultation! Our Quick Reference Tutorials provide step-by-step instructions for frequently asked technical questions. A/V Consulting: Need professional advice or training? Contact us!. Looking for access to software? Dartmouth has made Adobe Creative Cloud applications available FREE to all Arts and Science undergraduate students and Guarini graduate students. For instructions and support on how to access the applications go to Dartmouth Service Portal: Adobe Creative Cloud Software. In addition, Adobe Creative Cloud is available on all Jones Media Center iMac computers. News & Events Would you like to stream some films for your course? Fill out our Reserves Request Form for Summer 2022 The JMC CIRCULATION DESK is open 10:00 AM - 4:00 PM, Monday - Friday. JMC staff is available for in-person AND virtual consultation. If you have any questions, please reach out to us at Jones.Media.Center@Dartmouth.edu Equipment pick up and return is available Monday - Friday from 10:00 am - 4:00 pm. Equipment check-out, pick up, or return is NOT available on Saturdays or Sundays. Made At Dartmouth (MAD) Research Video Contest is a video competition that allows undergraduate students to communicate their research to a broad audience. For more information go to http://dartgo.org/MADResearch Schedule an Appointment with JMC Staff Department or section navigation Jones Media Center Collections Course Reserves Public Screening Equipment Loans Spaces Media Project Showcase Software Tutorials Workshops Work @ Jones Staff Directory Hours About Us Contact Information Jones Media Center 6025 Baker-Berry Library Hanover, NH 03755 Phone: (603) 646-2165 Fax: (603) 646-1043 Email: Jones Media Center Today's Service Desk Hours: 10am - 4pm Today's Study Space Hours: 8am - 2am Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Faculty Services Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy Last Updated: 5/10/22