Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery News & Ideas News & Ideas Audre Lorde Reads "Afterimages" Toggle information Close detail panel Pat Parker and Audre Lorde at a lesbian poetry reading Fleischmann, Susan D. [photographer] 1981 May 09 Share This page S h a r e T h i s Share this page on Facebook F a c e b o o k Share this page on Twitter T w i t t e r Share this page on LinkedIn L i n k e d I n The poetry of Audre Lorde (1934–1992) often explores the tensions and joys of her overlapping identities as a black woman, a feminist, and a lesbian. Published 07.08.2020 Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Copy Link In the introduction to this 1981 reading Lorde addresses these issues of intersectionality, saying to the women in the crowd, "I am also very, very conscious of those things which separate us, of the causes, of anger, and of the reasons why we do not hear each other when we do not hear each other." "Afterimages" comes from a set of poems called "Women in Rage," and it centers on the story of Emmett Till, a 14-year-old black boy who was brutally murdered in Mississippi in the summer of 1955. Listen to audio of Audre Lorde reading “Afterimages” ﻿For research tips and additional resources, view the Hear Black Women's Voices research guide. Transcript of audio recording [start of track] [Audre Lorde speaking] This poem is dedicated to each of you and to Emmett Till, who I hope is a name that is familiar to at least some of you in this room of over five hundred women. Afterimages [pause] However the image enters its force remains my eyes are rockstrewn caves where dragonfish evolve wild for life, relentless and acquisitive learning to survive where there is no food my eyes are always hungry and remembering however the image enters its force remains. A white woman stands bereft and empty a black boy hacked into a murderous lesson recalled in me forever like a lurch of earth on the edge of sleep etched into my visions food for dragonfish that learn to live upon whatever they must eat the fused images beneath my pain. [pause] The Pearl River floods through the streets of Jackson A Mississippi summer televised. Trapped houses kneel like sinners in the rain a white woman climbs from her roof to a passing boat her fingers tarry for a moment on her chimney now awash tearless, no longer young, she holds a tattered baby's blanket in her arms. In the flickering afterimage of this nightmare rain a microphone thrust up against her flat bewildered words “we jest come from the bank yestiddy borrowing money to pay the income tax now everything's gone. I never knew it could be so hard.” Despair weighs down her voice like Pearl River mud caked around the edges her pale eyes scan the camera for help or explanation and then unanswered she shifts her search across the watered street, dry-eyed “hard,” she says, “but not this hard.” And two tow-headed children hurl themselves against her hanging upon her coat like mirrors until a man with ham-like hands pulls her aside with a snarl “She ain't got nothing more to say!” and that lie hangs in his mouth like a shred of rotting meat. Part 3 I inherited Jackson, Mississippi. For my majority it gave me Emmett Till his 15 years puffed out like bruises on plump boy-cheeks his only Mississippi summer whistling a 21 gun salute to Dixie while a white girl passed him in the street and he was baptized my son forever in the midnight waters of the Pearl. His broken body is the afterimage of my 21st year when I walked through a northern summer my eyes averted from each corner's photographies newspapers protest posters magazines Confidential, Police Story, True the avid insistence of detail pretending insight or information the length of gash across the dead boy's loins his grieving mother's lamentations the severed lips, how many burns his gouged out eyes sewed shut upon the covers louder than life all over the veiled warning, the secret relish of a black child's mutilated body fingered by street-corner eyes bruise upon livid bruise and wherever I looked that summer I learned to be at home with children's blood with savored violence with pictures of black broken flesh used, crumpled, discarded lying amid the sidewalk refuse like a raped woman's face. A black boy from Chicago whistled on the streets of Jackson, tested what he'd been taught was a manly thing to do his teachers ripped out his eyes his sex his tongue and flung him to the Pearl weighted with stone in the name of white womanhood they took their aroused honor back to Jackson and celebrated in a whorehouse the double ritual of white manhood confirmed. [pause] Part 4 “If earth and air and water do not judge them who am I to refuse a crust of bread?” Emmett Till rides the crest of the Pearl, whistling 24 years his ghost lay like the shade of a raped woman and a white girl has grown older in costly honor (what did she pay to never know the price?) now the Pearl River speaks its muddy judgment and I can withhold my pity and my bread. "Hard,” she says, “but not this hard.” Her face is flat with resignation and despair with ancient and familiar sorrows a woman surveying her crumpled future as the white girl besmirched by Emmett's whistle never allowed her own tongue without power or conclusion unvoiced she stands amid the...she stands adrift in the ruins of her honor and a man with a face of an executioner pulls her away. “Hard, but not this hard.” Within my eyes the flickering afterimage of a nightmare rain a woman wrings her hands beneath the weight of agonies remembered I wade through other summer ghosts betrayed by visions hers and my own becoming dragonfish to survive the horrors we are living with tortured lungs adapting to breathe blood. A woman measures her life's damage my eyes are caves, chunks of etched rock tied to the ghost of a black boy whistling crying and frightened her tow-headed children cluster like little mirrors of despair their father's hands upon them and soundlessly a woman begins to weep. [applause] [end of track] Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn News & Ideas Harvard Radcliffe Institute Awards 2022 Fay Prize for Outstanding Theses Harvard Radcliffe Institute Announces 2022–2023 Fellows Harvard’s Walking Tour App Highlights Overlooked History Some of Boston’s Legacy of Slavery is Hidden in Plain Sight The Prison as Petri Dish Zooming the Archives Constance Baker Motley, Then and Now In Process: Adrienne Kennedy Papers and Dorothy I. Height Papers Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College