Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Robsham Theater Menu Main Nav Robsham Theater Arts Center Robsham Box Office Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Visitor Information Student Employment Venues Overview Robsham Main Stage Bonn Studio Theater Brighton Dance Studios 300 Hammond Pond Parkway Robsham Box Office Robsham Box Office Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Bonn Studio Theater Home Venues Bonn Studio Theater Venues Robsham Main Stage Bonn Studio Theater Brighton Dance Studios 300 Hammond Pond Parkway The Bonn Studio Theater, located in the Robsham Theater Arts Center on Boston College’s lower campus, is a black box theater, ideal for smaller-scale productions, student talent shows and Theatre Department workshops. Like the Robsham Main Stage, it’s equipped with a state-of-the-art theatrical light and sound system. The Bonn Studio Theater also serves as a laboratory for dance classes. Past performances hosted in the Bonn Studio Theater include theatrical productions like “One Flea Spare,” “Honor, Shame and Violence: A Shakespeare Anthology Project,” and “Bug.” As there isn’t fixed seating in this venue, the number of seats available for performances in the Bonn Studio varies from show to show. Wheelchair, wheelchair companion space and limited mobility seating are available in this venue as are wireless hearing assistance devices available upon request from the House Manager/Box Office. If you have any questions about the Bonn Studio Theater, including how to reserve the space, please see the link to the Venue Information Packet (VIP) listed below. If you would prefer this PDF as an emailed text or have any other questions, please notify us at rtac.operations@bc.edu and we will be happy to help. Thank you. Download a copy of the Bonn Studio Theater Venue Information Packet. Back To Top Back To Top Robsham Theater Arts Center Boston College 617-552-4800 About Venues Box Office Connect with us Facebook Twitter Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College