COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Music - Conducting, Master's Master'sMusic - Conducting All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Music Wichita State's Master of Music degree program will help you take your musical talent—and career—to a higher level. The program combines professional training with acclaimed faculty and year-round performance opportunities—on campus and throughout Kansas' center of arts and culture. Learn how Music - Conducting is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission into the Master of Music— Conducting concentration—program, you must: Be admitted to the WSU Graduate School Have a Bachelor of Arts in music or Bachelor of Music degree Complete a conducting audition and performance audition Submit a score analysis of a major work Schedule a personal interview For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Playing the trumpet is easier with WSU invention As a music student, you have the opportunity to work with innovative faculty members. Hunsicker partnered with WSU's National Institute for Aviation Research and WSU Ventures to create the Gapper, a flexible plastic device that allows musicians to control the third valve slide. Hunsicker says the ring on the third valve slide tends to too big for musicians with smaller hands. The gap between the finger and the ring causes a delay in moving the slide, which results in a missed note. The Gapper fixes that problem. Curriculum To complete the Master of Music degree, you'll take a minimum of 32 credit hours, with 60 percent of your work in courses numbered 700 or above, and complete a thesis or recital depending on your concentration. Every MM concentration requires 12 credit hours of core courses—in addition to hours in your specialization area. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in music — conducting from Wichita State will equip you for career success directing orchestras, choirs and bands in diverse settings from public schools and universities to churches and the recording industry. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©