Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Urban Studies Site Navigation Home News People Undergraduate Program Concentration Requirements Courses Honors Capstones Research Funding Engaged Scholars Program Urban Studies DUG Study Abroad Life After Brown Events Urban Studies Alumni Urban Studies Newsletters Urban Journal Internships/Fellowships/Jobs Urban Research Resources Contact Us Connect with US Print this Page Share this Page Urban Studies Program Brown University Box 1833 Maxcy Hall 108 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2090 Fax 401-863-9288 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Urban Studies Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Program The Undergraduate Program The Urban Studies Program immerses students in the study of cities and urbanization in the past, present, and future. Through experiences both inside and outside the classroom, urban studies concentrators learn to analyze urban life and the built environment through a variety of disciplinary lenses, to think creatively and critically about both the problems and potential of cities, and to use evidence-based approaches to address real-world issues. Above all, our students are dedicated to understanding, envisioning, and creating cities that are inclusive and sustainable. An urban studies degree prepares students for a wide range of careers, with our graduates going on to work in government, the non-profit sector, business, law, education, planning and design, public health and medicine, academia, media and technology, and the arts. These are some of the hallmarks of our program: Interdisciplinary Approaches to Liberal Learning Goals A quintessentially interdisciplinary program, urban studies equips students with the tools to seek comprehensive approaches to the complex challenges facing cities today. Concentrators can choose from urban studies classes that draw upon American studies, anthropology, economics, sociology, history, political science, history of art and architecture, design, environmental studies, literature, media studies, cultural theory, education, archaeology, international affairs and public policy, and more. The program encourages students to draw from these diverse disciplines to craft an individualized concentration course plan that explores their own interests in particular urban themes; for example, cities and climate change, urban inequality and justice, or transportation planning and public space (to name just a few). In the process, students are taught to examine urban life using both qualitative and quantitative methods, to communicate their ideas clearly and convincingly, and to collaborate on both scholarly and applied projects. Local Meets Global Students in our program are taught to apply their knowledge and skills to urban contexts around the globe and down the street. Several courses introduce students to broader processes and diverse histories of urbanization in the United States, Europe, Africa, Asia, and Latin America; while others offer a deep dive into urban issues and debates in our own backyard of Providence, Rhode Island. Many of our concentrators also choose to enrich their coursework at Brown by spending a semester or summer studying abroad in a new city, taking advantage of the over 130 overseas programs offered by the university and its partners. Faculty Mentorship Urban studies concentrators have the unique opportunity to work closely with faculty from departments across the university. In addition to teaching classes, urban studies faculty offer advising and mentorship to students pursuing independent studies, community service projects, capstone papers, and honors thesis research. All urban studies faculty serve as concentration advisors for our undergraduates, providing individualized attention to guide students in crafting a set of courses and experiences that reflect their academic and career goals. Faculty members hold frequent office hours and welcome students to discuss their interests in urban issues and the concentration. Community Engagement The Urban Studies Program has a close relationship with the city of Providence. Faculty members have served on local and state government commissions and lend their expertise to a wide range of community initiatives. The program assists interested students in finding summer internships with relevant local government agencies, cultural institutions, and non-profit organizations, where they can apply lessons they have learned in the classroom to real-world issues beyond campus. Students are encouraged to undertake research involving the study of Providence and nearby cities for their honors theses or capstone projects. Urban studies concentrators also have the option of pursuing an Engaged Scholars Certificate, a program that trains students in community-oriented research methods and facilitates collaborative projects with a variety of local organizations. Also in Urban Studies Site Navigation Home News People Undergraduate Program Concentration Requirements Courses Honors Capstones Research Funding Engaged Scholars Program Urban Studies DUG Study Abroad Life After Brown Events Urban Studies Alumni Urban Studies Newsletters Urban Journal Internships/Fellowships/Jobs Urban Research Resources Contact Us Connect with US Print this Page Share this Page Urban Studies Program Brown University Box 1833 Maxcy Hall 108 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2090 Fax 401-863-9288 [email protected] Urban Studies Events Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. View full calendar > Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity