Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Mail Services Mail Services For current and updated policies and procedures related to mail services, student mail services, managed document services and printing services, please visit the COVID-19 Business Guidance page. Mail Smart Mail Smart provides all mailing services to the University, including faculty/staff pickup and delivery, mailing supplies, project packaging and bulk mailings. We deliver all USPS mail daily to all on-campus locations. Using the latest technology, we track each package we receive to ensure chain-of-custody and provide departments with accurate data and reporting. We make sending letters and packages easy! Just place any outgoing mail at your designated mail stop. Our team will retrieve and process, in most cases, daily. We have the hardware and expertise to post each letter and ship each package with accuracy and bill your department automatically. For large mailings, our team can process your bulk mailings providing the highest discounts available, address corrections, and detailed information on the rate of deliverability and timeliness. Our experienced staff is available to discuss your mail needs and guide you through every step of the process to ensure you have the highest level of success! Package Shipping Update Clemson University enjoys discounted shipping rates, negotiated by the State of South Carolina, with the primary package carriers UPS and FedEx. Unfortunately, the discounts provided by UPS are no longer in place as negotiations with the state are taking place and it is undetermined when they will return. To remain fiscally responsible, the University is recommending all departments ship via FedEx when possible. If on campus, the department can continue to place any outgoing packages at their mailstop for pick up by Mail Services. That team will process those items using FedEx. Likewise, faculty and staff may also drop off packages at the Dillard Mail Center for processing. For those departments not physically served by Mail Services, such as the Extension Offices, a FedEx sub account can be created to continue to take advantage of discounted shipping rates. Please see the steps below For questions, please contact Mail Services at 864-656-7720. Complete the sections in GREEN and ORANGE of the FedEx Account Creation Form and email form to govtsupport@fedex.com. Once FedEx sets up the account, you will receive an email with your new account number. Go to the FedEx website to create a new log in. The process asks for a credit card, but it can be skipped since one will not be needed. Once done, you can go to Your Profile and enter your Account number under Account Management on the left. Finally, when creating a shipment, be sure to select that account during the payment selection process. Questions? See our Mail Smart Frequently Asked Questions page. Clemson University Mail Permit Process Policy Clemson University maintains several mailing permits, issued by the United States Postal Service for processing various classes of mail: First-Class, Standard Class, Nonprofit and Business Reply Mail. The university’s contracted mail services facility, known as Mail Smart Services, manages the usage of Clemson mailing permits in compliance with all United States Postal Services rules and regulations. Please read this policy and contact Mail Smart for more information. Clemson University Mail Permit Usage Policy Our Location Dillard Building 105 Klugh Avenue Clemson, SC 29634 Download Mail Forms Visit Student Mail Services For more information, questions or comments about the Mail Services, please contact us at mailsmart@clemson.edu or call 864-656-7720 Bulk Mail Services Available to Faculty/Staff and Clemson Community Clemson Mail Services specializes in a range of mail fulfillment options to suit your needs: Bulk Mail Services for Mailings over 200 pieces Planning: Paper, design and Size requirements that get you the most savings! Mailing List Assistance Scheduling Addressing Direct Ink-Jet Impressions Tabbing Sorting Sealing Final Mail Preparation Bulk Mail Tracking and Reporting Managed Document Services Printing Services Mail Services Mail Smart Forms Mail Smart FAQ Student Mail Services Contact Us Related Links Campus Services Campus Life Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram