Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Art2Wear Paris. Milan. New York. Raleigh. Each spring, Art2Wear brings the most innovative high-fashion concepts to NC State's campus. On the Catwalk What is fashion? NC State’s Art2Wear show demonstrates that there’s no one answer. The annual event, organized by the Department of Art + Design in NC State’s College of Design, has grown from a small, grassroots showcase to the largest student-run fashion show in the Southeast. For 21 years, it has challenged both student designers and the audience to question the boundaries and conventional definitions of fashion. Years of hard work and vision culminate in this showcase of fashion, costume and wearable sculpture — a dazzling display of creativity and innovation. Stop Video Art2Wear Advances For more than two decades, Art2Wear has challenged young designers to imagine, create and inspire through showstopping wearable art. The theme of this year’s show was dissonance and students unveiled their creations in person for the first time in two years. We also saw looks created entirely out of donated fabric from performance apparel company Under Armour during the One-Look Design Challenge. 21 Years of Art2Wear Follow past student designers from studio to stage 327 Participants to Date Take a look behind the scenes Art2Wear is an opportunity to break the mold and to allow the designers to make their wildest dreams come to life through fashion and art. Justin LeBlanc Former Art2Wear faculty advisor Defined by design Play Video Relive the 2022 premiere: Art2Wear took over Stewart Theatre on April 27. Watch the student participants showcase their designs. Join The Pack See Yourself Here We’re a university like no other. Discover what you’ll think and do with us. Apply to NC State Ready to run with the Wolfpack? Browse degree paths and deadlines. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.