COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Biomedical Engineering, Master's Master'sBiomedical Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering The Master of Science (MS) in Biomedical Engineering from Wichita State combines the flexibility of multiple concentrations with applied learning and research in state-of-the-art biomedical engineering labs. Graduates are well prepared for careers designing the medical technology that improves our quality of life. Learn how Biomedical Engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Minimum requirements for admission include: A bachelor's degree in a discipline relevant to BME Transcript from each institution attended Minimum undergraduate GPA of 3.0 Statement of purpose including a section on research interests Graduate Record Examination scores Three letters of recommendation Acceptable, official score on the TOEFL, IELTS, or PTE-Academic as proof of English proficiency For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Students and faculty create smart skin biomed sensor Student and faculty researchers at Wichita State are creating a smart skin biomedical sensor that could someday be used by NASA. If the sensor does what they expect, it would be able to measure multiple physiological parameters that NASA is interested in, including blood flow, intercranial pressure, blood health, blood gas levels and muscle degeneration. Curriculum The Master of Science in biomedical engineering consists of 30 credit hours, including core courses, a number of electives and a research thesis. View the curriculum Careers Whether you’re pursuing a promotion or preparing for a Ph.D., WSU’s vast industry connections, research opportunities and unmatched facilities create an environment for our engineering students to gain the expertise that leads to dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©