Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News UC ShareIT program gives local students glimpse into their future May 19, 2022 Eleven students, along with seven mentors from Hughes High School in Cincinnati, toured the 1819 Innovation Hub, the nerve center of the Cincinnati Innovation District (CID) as part of the University of Cincinnati ShareIT program on May 11. UC startup helps police departments prevent, solve crime May 16, 2022 Software technology from a University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup that focuses on records management and data analytics is helping law enforcement agencies more efficiently manage and share data to help solve crime. UC graduate develops in-home physical therapy company May 4, 2022 University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup Band Connect is nearing a close on its pre-seed round of funding and will start a military pilot with the Department of Defense, the Cincinnati Business Courier reported. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove UC ShareIT program gives local students glimpse into their future May 19, 2022 Eleven students, along with seven mentors from Hughes High School in Cincinnati, toured the 1819 Innovation Hub, the nerve center of the Cincinnati Innovation District (CID) as part of the University of Cincinnati ShareIT program on May 11. UC startup helps police departments prevent, solve crime May 16, 2022 Software technology from a University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup that focuses on records management and data analytics is helping law enforcement agencies more efficiently manage and share data to help solve crime. UC graduate develops in-home physical therapy company May 4, 2022 University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup Band Connect is nearing a close on its pre-seed round of funding and will start a military pilot with the Department of Defense, the Cincinnati Business Courier reported. Venture Lab-backed startup aims to clean up plastic pollutants May 2, 2022 A dream of ridding the oceans of plastic pollutants brought Clean Earth Rovers to the University of Cincinnati’s 1819 Innovation Hub, where the startup developed an autonomous rover that soon will take to the water. WVXU: UC startup gains interest in its new technology April 25, 2022 University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup Cinthesis is gaining interest from companies that are adding new products and want to go green, WVXU reported. Earth Day is every day for UC sustainability stewards April 21, 2022 With national Earth Day celebrated on April 22, events across all four campuses are bringing the awareness of UC's green energy initiatives and the improved built environment to light. While Earth Day was created in 1970, today a growing group of sustainability stewards all across UC continue to carry out the original Earth Day mission: from awareness to action. UC startup makes advancements in ‘green’ chemistry April 18, 2022 A University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup is developing a new method of chemistry that could make a wide range of products including agrichemicals, pharmaceuticals and plastics more environmentally friendly. Cincinnati cited as a model for inclusive economic growth April 7, 2022 Cincinnati was one of five American cities the Brookings Institution cited as examples as to how communities can “rewire” economic systems and generate inclusive growth. Venture Lab-backed startup earns $6 million of funding April 4, 2022 With $6 million of funding, including $2 million from the U.S. Department of Defense, a University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup is developing methods to treat musculoskeletal disorders that are minimally invasive and could regenerate damaged tissue. Cryptocurrency helps nonprofits connect to new donors February 22, 2022 Cryptocurrency is a fast-growing source of donations and helps nonprofits connect with a new demographic of donors, experts said Feb. 17 during a panel discussion hosted by the University of Cincinnati, called Digital Futures Flashpoint Series. Is cryptocurrency the future of philanthropy? February 11, 2022 Event: February 17, 2022 1:00 PM As cryptocurrencies gain prominence in the financial sector, the philanthropic world is seeking ways it can utilize this new technology to advance the work of nonprofits. Heartland moving past its Rust Belt image January 27, 2022 Intel’s announcement that it’s building a state-of-the-art chip plant near Columbus is the latest sign that America’s industrial heartland is moving beyond its Rust Belt image. Cincinnati Innovation District drives workforce development January 11, 2022 Cincinnati has become a model for Ohio and for cities across the nation when it comes to solving pressing economic issues. UC professor’s method to treating cocaine addiction highlighted January 7, 2022 The work of University of Cincinnati pharmacology professor Andrew Norman to treat cocaine addiction has been featured by WVXU and Local 12. UC professor develops novel approach to combat cocaine addiction January 5, 2022 Andrew Norman’s unique approach to treating cocaine addiction has been met with skepticism and consternation from fellow researchers, but it’s showing promise and caught the attention of Ohio Lt. Gov. Jon Husted. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top