Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Chemistry (MS) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Sciences Department(s) Chemistry In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Master of Science in Chemistry (MS) program prepares students for careers in the chemical industry or further graduate studies. The curriculum is designed to provide a broad overall perspective of the chemical sciences field while placing the primary emphasis upon chemistry and the application of chemical principles. The Chemistry MS program offers both a thesis option and a nonthesis option. The thesis option requires a minimum of 30 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree, including 16 credit hours of required courses, at least 6 credit hours of thesis research, and 8 credit hours of electives that must be approved by the student's advisory committee. The nonthesis option requires a minimum of 31 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree, including 16 credit hours of required courses, 14 credit hours of electives that must be approved by the student's advisory committee, and 1 credit hour of independent study that culminates in a research report. Total Credit Hours Required: 30-31 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Request Information View Full Description Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Analytical Chemist Ballistician Ballistics Expert Bench Chemist Chemistry Professor Crime Lab Technician Crime Scene Technician Forensic Analyst Formulary Chemist Handwriting Expert High School French Teacher High School History Teacher High School Teacher Industrial Chemist Organic Chemistry Professor Physical Chemistry Professor Quality Control Chemist Research and Development Chemist Trace Evidence Technician Wildlife Forensic Geneticist Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Sciences programs Masters Chemistry (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Chemistry (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Science in Chemistry (MS) program prepares students for careers in the chemical industry or further graduate studies. The curriculum is designed to provide a broad overall perspective of the chemical sciences field while placing the primary emphasis upon chemistry and the application of chemical principles. The Chemistry MS program offers both a thesis option and a nonthesis option. The thesis option requires a minimum of 30 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree, including 16 credit hours of required courses, at least 6 credit hours of thesis research, and 8 credit hours of electives that must be approved by the student's advisory committee. The nonthesis option requires a minimum of 31 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree, including 16 credit hours of required courses, 14 credit hours of electives that must be approved by the student's advisory committee, and 1 credit hour of independent study that culminates in a research report. Total Credit Hours Required: 30-31 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Degree Requirements Qualifying Examinations 0 Total Credits All students must satisfy qualifying (proficiency) requirements in four of the five areas (analytical chemistry, biochemistry, inorganic chemistry, organic chemistry and physical chemistry) during the first year by taking exams in four of these five subjects. Additional course work may be required if one or more of the qualifying exams are not satisfied. Satisfaction of this requirement will help ensure that all students are adequately prepared for the core courses. If students do not satisfy the proficiency exam requirements within the first year, they may be subject to dismissal from the program. Required Courses 16 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete at least 4 of the following: CHM6710 - Applied Analytical Chemistry (3) CHS6240 - Chemical Thermodynamics (3) CHS6251 - Applied Organic Synthesis (3) CHM6440 - Kinetics and Catalysis (3) BCH6740 - Advanced Biochemistry (3) Students must take four of the above courses. If a student successfully completes all five required courses, one course will count toward fulfilling the electives requirement. Seminar Complete all of the following Earn at least 4 credits from the following: CHM6936 - Graduate Chemistry Seminar (1) CHM 6936 - Graduate Chemistry Seminar will be repeated 4 times. Elective Courses 8 Total Credits Complete all of the following All elective courses must be approved by the student's advisory committee. Earn at least 8 credits from the following: CHM5225 - Advanced Organic Chemistry (3) CHM5235 - Applied Molecular Spectroscopy (3) CHM5305 - Bioconjugate Chemistry (3) CHM5450 - Polymer Chemistry (3) CHM5451C - Techniques in Polymer Science (3) CHM5580 - Advanced Physical Chemistry (3) CHM6134 - Advanced Instrumental Analysis (3) CHM6711 - Chemistry of Materials (3) CHS6260 - Chemical Unit Operations and Separations (3) CHS6613 - Current Topics in Environmental Chemistry (3) CHM/CHS Special topics courses may be taken as offered. Thesis/Nonthesis Option 6 - 7 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Thesis Option Complete all of the following Earn at least 6 credits from the following: CHM6971 - TREATISE (THESIS OR Research Report) (1 - 99) The grounding in scientific research methodology provided by the thesis requirement is a central focus of the thesis option in the Chemistry MS program. Students will conduct research either on site or at the professional laboratories where they work. In either case, a member of the UCF Chemistry Department faculty will act as research adviser and approve the research topic. This research culminates in the writing and presentation of the thesis. The student will present his/her thesis for final examination (oral defense of thesis) by a committee consisting of three members including the research adviser. The committee has to be approved by the Graduate Coordinator of the Chemistry program. The thesis must be judged worthy of publication by the review committee and may not be submitted for examination until so deemed. For nonresident students, the thesis adviser will visit the student's laboratory, where their research is to be performed, before the research begins and on a regular basis until the work is complete. Nonthesis Option Complete all of the following Earn at least 1 credits from the following: CHM6908 - Directed Independent Studies (1 - 99) Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: Additional Electives : 6 Credit Hours Equipment Fee 0 Total Credits Full-time students in the Chemistry MS program pay a $90 equipment fee each semester that they are enrolled. Part-time students pay $45 per semester. Independent Learning 0 Total Credits For the thesis option, the grounding in scientific research methodology is a central focus. This research culminates in the writing and presentation of the thesis. For the nonthesis option, students take an additional 6 credit hours of approved electives and one-credit hour of Independent Study (CHM 6908), which culminates in a required report of the independent study experience. Grand Total Credits: 30 - 31 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Two letters of recommendation. Goal Statement Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Meeting minimum UCF admission criteria does not guarantee program admission. Final admission is based on evaluation of the applicant's abilities, past performance, recommendations, match of this program and faculty expertise to the applicant's career/academic goals, and the applicant's potential for completing the degree. Application Deadlines Chemistry MS *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Mar 1 Jul 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida