Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Hiring, Hosting and Admitting Set Navigation title in component Hiring International Workers Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Hiring, Hosting and Admitting International Applicants The application, admission, and hiring processes for international students, scholars, and visitors are a cooperative effort between UC departments and UC International. I want to... Hire an international employee Admit an international student Host international visitors on campus Learn how to use iBearcatsGlobal Clicking on these links will take you to Bearcats Landing, UC's intranet site for faculty and staff. All hiring, hosting and admissions information is now hosted on Bearcats Landing. Start with UC International The University of Cincinnati brings many international visitors to campus each year. All international visitors, regardless of immigration status, are required by university policy to be officially entered into iBearcatsGlobal. If you ever have questions about hiring, hosting or admitting an international visitor, contact UC International first. You can also check out our resources for faculty and staff on Bearcats Landing, UC's intranet. Visa Statuses If you'll be working with international students and scholars, you need to be aware of the requirements of common visa statuses. F-1: Students right arrow down arrow F-1 students are foreign students who have been granted admission to the United States to pursue a full course of study at an academic or language institution. J-1: Students, Scholars, Professors, Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 status is for individuals who are coming temporarily to the United States as a participant in an approved Department of State exchange program. The J-1 visa has categories of exchange programs with specified activities for each type. Visitors may only engage in those specified activities for their J-1 category. H-1B: Temporary Employment right arrow down arrow H-1B specialty workers are international visitors who have skills and experience of a special nature that require at least a bachelor’s degree. Employment can be requested for increments up to three years with a total maximum stay of six years. TN: Temporary Employment for Canadians / Mexicans right arrow down arrow TN is a temporary employment status available to Canadian and Mexican Nationals whose employment falls under an approved list of professions. Employment can be granted for intervals up to three years. O-1: Extraordinary Ability right arrow down arrow O-1 is a temporary employment status available to individuals who have extraordinary ability in the sciences, business, athletics, education or the arts which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim or a demonstrated record of extraordinary achievement. B: Guest Speakers, Independent Contractors, Delegation Members right arrow down arrow B status is for temporary business or tourism. Delegation members or other short-term visitors often come to the US on B status. Permanent Residency right arrow down arrow Permanent residency allows international individuals to live and work permanently in the United States. Other Visa Statuses right arrow down arrow If you encounter an applicant who has any other visa status, contact our office to learn more about that visa status's requirements for work or study. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top