Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Email Lists Email Lists Students can subscribe/unsubscribe themselves to lists at https://utlists.utexas.edu Announcement Lists ischool@utlists.utexas.edu A list for iSchool faculty, staff, adjuncts, assistant instructors and other friends of the School. si-undergrad@utlists.utexas.edu A list for currently-enrolled undergraduate students. Undergraduate students will be automatically subscribed to this list. Emails sent to this list must be applicable to all students and relevant to the mission of the school. si-msis@utlists.utexas.edu A list for currently-enrolled masters students. Masters students will be automatically subscribed to this list. Emails sent to this list must be applicable to all students and relevant to the mission of the school. si-phd@utlists.utexas.edu A list for currently-enrolled doctoral students. Doctoral students will be automatically subscribed to this list. Emails sent to this list must be applicable to all students and relevant to the mission of the school. ischool-colloq@utlists.utexas.edu A list to get notified about all the upcoming colloquia and other research talks. si-fs@utlists.utexas.edu Announcements and discussion that pertains only to regular faculty and staff. Examples might include committee assignments, information requests, deadlines, meeting scheduling, and the like. Discussion Lists the-insider@utlists.utexas.edu A list maintained by SASI for current and former students, faculty, staff and others with an interest in school happenings. flipsider@utlists.utexas.edu A list maintained by SASI for all to discuss about non-academic matters, including funny links, books for sale, roommate finding, etc. Student Organizations saa-ut-students@utlists.utexas.edu A discussion list to facilitate communication between archives students and professionals in related disciplines. ala-tla-students@utlists.utexas.edu A list to communicate about ALA/TLA Student Chapter events and activities. UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022