Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Creative Writing (MFA) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) English In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Creative Writing MFA offers a workshop-intensive program in fiction, nonfiction, and poetry, emphasizing the art and craft of creative writing and concentrating on the student's written work. The program encourages hybrid and experimental forms. The MFA program emphasizes the study of craft and published writing alongside the closely analyzed production of original work by students. Opportunities for professional development as writers, teachers, and editors abound. Our prolific, dedicated faculty members have won numerous prestigious awards for their work and have served as officers in national professional organizations. The MFA program in Creative Writing offers workshop courses in fiction, nonfiction, and poetry, emphasizing the art and craft of creative writing and concentrating on the student's written work. The minimum total hours required for the Creative Writing MFA is 36 credit hours, including a minimum of nine required credit hours of graduate writing workshop classes. Each candidate will write a book-length creative thesis. There is no nonthesis option in Creative Writing. Total Credit Hours Required: 36 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Request Information View Full Description Application Deadlines Domestic International Fall January 1 Fall January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Advertising Copy Writer Advertising Editor Contemporary English Literature Professor Copy Desk Chief Copy Editor Copy Writer Creative Writing English Professor Interdisciplinary Professor Lyricist Medieval English Literature Professor Military Science Teacher Newspaper Photo Editor Poet Project Management Professor Scientific Publications Editor Seventeenth-Century English Literature Professor Short Story Writer Sports Editor Technical Editor Victorian Literature Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Masters Creative Writing (MFA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Creative Writing (MFA) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Creative Writing MFA offers a workshop-intensive program in fiction, nonfiction, and poetry, emphasizing the art and craft of creative writing and concentrating on the student's written work. The program encourages hybrid and experimental forms. The MFA program emphasizes the study of craft and published writing alongside the closely analyzed production of original work by students. Opportunities for professional development as writers, teachers, and editors abound. Our prolific, dedicated faculty members have won numerous prestigious awards for their work and have served as officers in national professional organizations. The MFA program in Creative Writing offers workshop courses in fiction, nonfiction, and poetry, emphasizing the art and craft of creative writing and concentrating on the student's written work. The minimum total hours required for the Creative Writing MFA is 36 credit hours, including a minimum of nine required credit hours of graduate writing workshop classes. Each candidate will write a book-length creative thesis. There is no nonthesis option in Creative Writing. Total Credit Hours Required: 36 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Program Prerequisites Students are required to have a proficiency in American and British Literature as reflected by completing at least one survey course in each field. Students with baccalaureate degrees in subjects other than English whose transcripts do not clearly indicate successful completion of such courses will be required to complete survey courses in British and American literature as co-requisites before the thesis defense. The particular courses that satisfy these co-requisites are selected in consultation with the MFA program director. Degree Requirements Required Courses 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following Core - 9 Hours Complete all of the following Complete at least 3 of the following: CRW6025 - Advanced Graduate Writing Workshop (3) CRW6920 - Fiction Workshop (3) CRW6921 - Multi-Genre Workshop (3) CRW6922 - Novel Workshop (3) CRW6923 - Nonfiction Workshop (3) CRW6924 - Poetry Workshop (3) While the student is expected to concentrate their workshop study in their chief genre, multi-genre proficiency is encouraged. Additional credit hours beyond the required 9 credit hours in workshops that include their chief genre are recommended to assist the student in developing better writing and publication skills. Specialization - 6 Hours Complete at least 2 of the following: LIT6039 - Studies in Contemporary Poetry (3) LIT6097 - Studies in Contemporary Fiction (3) LIT6076 - Studies in Contemporary Nonfiction (3) CRW5130 - Form and Theory in Creative Writing (3) Elective Courses 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following Restricted Electives - 6 Hours Complete all of the following Earn at least 6 credits from the following: CRW6720 - Professional Development in Creative Writing (3) CRW6721 - Literary Journal Editing (3) CRW6976 - Scholarship and Publication Models (3) CRW6806C - Teaching Creative Writing (3) CRW5948C - Creative Writing Service Learning (3) CRW6946 - Internship (1 - 99) CRW6025 - Advanced Graduate Writing Workshop (3) CRW 5938 - Special Topics Seminar 3 Credit Hours may also be taken if offered CRW 6920, CRW 6921, CRW 6922, CRW 6923, CRW 6924 may substitute for CRW 6025 Unrestricted Electives - 6 Hours Earn at least 6 credits from the following: CRW5130 - Form and Theory in Creative Writing (3) LIT6216 - Issues in Literary Study (3) LIT6936 - Studies in Literary, Cultural, and Textual Theory (3) ENC5705 - Approaches to Teaching College Composition (3) LIT6276 - Teaching College Literature (3) Additional Electives - 3 Hours Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: An additional elective. Thesis 6 Total Credits Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: CRW 6971 Thesis 3 Credit Hours The candidate will complete a book-length manuscript of publishable quality, written and revised in CRW 6971 Thesis, that meets both departmental and university requirements for the thesis. Practicum and Internship (Optional) 0 Total Credits Although a practicum or an internship is not required, they are encouraged to better prepare the student for their profession. These courses fulfill the 6-hour requirement in restricted electives and are listed in that category. CRW 6946 Internship The Florida Review Internship 3 Credit Hours The Cypress Dome Internship 3 Credit Hours Other Approved Internship 3 Credit Hours CRW 5948C - Creative Writing Service Learning 3 Credit Hours Independent Learning 0 Total Credits The creative thesis, a book-length manuscript of original creative work, is the independent learning experience. Grand Total Credits: 36 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Three letters of recommendation (preferably from current or former teachers). Statement of professional and creative goals, academic and creative background, and your commitment to community.(500-1000 words). In the first sentence of your statement, please specify the primary genre of study (fiction, poetry, or literary nonfiction In discussing your professional and creative goals, show us your passion for writing, your interest in specific styles or subjects, why you intend to pursue graduate study at UCF, and what you hope to achieve in the program. In the first sentence, you must identify the genre in which you are applying–fiction, poetry, creative nonfiction, or hybrid form. We encourage applications in hybrid, literary and genre fiction, and experimental/new forms. In discussing your academic and creative background, explain your background in writing, influences on your writing (other writers, specific classes, professors, or books), contemporary authors and works you admire, your extracurricular activities related to academia or writing, and any publications or awards you already have. In discussing your commitment to community, comment on your investment in creating a supportive community of writers, including the value of peer critique and exchange of creative ideas, your interest or involvement in community events or outreach, and your commitment to diverse and inclusive literary spaces. Résumé or CV. A portfolio of fiction, poetry, or creative nonfiction. The portfolio must be in English and in the applicant's primary genre (up to 15 pages of poetry, 30 pages of fiction, or 30 pages of literary nonfiction). This manuscript is the most important element of a candidate's application. It will be evaluated by a committee of creative writing faculty to assess the candidate's readiness for graduate study. The committee's decision is based upon its qualitative assessment for the manuscript's competence in standard English and originality, and the author's demonstrated potential to succeed in the profession of creative writing. At least one survey course in both English and American literature at the university level (may be taken while in graduate residence). Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. More detailed information about each of these program application requirements can be found on the Program's Website. Meeting minimum UCF admission criteria does not guarantee program admission. Final admission is based on evaluation of the applicant's abilities, past performance, recommendations, match of this program and faculty expertise to the applicant's career/academic goals, and the applicant's potential for completing the degree Application Deadlines Creative Writing MFA *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 1 Jan 1 International Applicants Jan 1 Jan 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida