<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Estevan Santiago MBA 2022 Video Video Home Region Morgan Hill, CA Undergrad Education Stanford University, BA, 2015 Previous Experience Collective Health, Health 2.0/A HIMSS Innovation Company, Stanford University/Program in Human Biology HBS Activities Latino Student Organization (LASO) VP of admissions, Brew Club CFO, Health Care Club, Volleyball Club “I love the diversity of the HBS community and the openness with which people engage with one another.” Why did you choose this path at this point in time? After deciding against applying to medical school, I felt a bit lost as I thought about my future career options. However, after working at a start-up (Collective Health) in San Francisco, I realized that I had a huge passion for managing teams and solving the big, meaty business problems that come with growing and scaling a company. I thought business school would be a great way to expand upon the toolbox I built at Collective, while also being able to explore new career opportunities and meet many amazing people. Coming to HBS is like... ...a dream come true! As a first-gen college student, the road to HBS has been an eye-opening journey, filled with both amazing highs and the occasional tough lows. Every time I step onto campus, I am reminded how fortunate I am to have the opportunity to attend such a fantastic school and how much this experience means to my family and me. Being part of the HBS community is like... ...being immersed in a space where you are consistently learning from those whose stories and experiences inspire you and where your pre-existing thoughts/opinions can be constructively challenged. I love the diversity of the HBS community and the openness with which people engage with one another. It is a community unlike any I’ve been a part of in the past. As a kid, what did you want to be when you grew up? As a kid, I always wanted to become a doctor. I routinely was reading books to learn more about the inner workings of the human body and even dressed up as a doctor for Halloween every year from 1st to 5th grade. This passion drove me to eventually major in Human Biology. While I didn’t end up pursuing this career path in the end, biology is still a huge passion of mine. What is your favorite childhood memory? When I was about three years old, my dad was watching my sister and me while my mom was working. Little did she know that we were home creating an entire music video -- complete with lip-syncing, dancing, and costumes. It was quite the production! We pull out the video every now and then, and it continues to be one of the funniest things I’ve ever seen. Never a dull moment in the Santiago household! Who is one person from your life that you admire the most today? My parents! Every opportunity I’ve been afforded is rooted in the unwavering support that they have given me from a young age. They both worked incredibly hard to give my sister and me opportunities they never had growing up, while also teaching us the importance of being a compassionate and giving person. I am incredibly grateful to have such amazing role models to look up to. What’s the best thing about your home town? There are so many things I love (and miss) about Morgan Hill! If I had to narrow it down to the one thing that I love most, it would be the incredibly fun festivals that the town has throughout the year. My favorite is the “Mushroom Mardi Gras” that happens each spring. At one point, Morgan Hill was billed as the “Mushroom Capital of the World,” so this festival is a celebration of all things mushrooms! Topics Health Care & Treatment Home Region Morgan Hill, CA Undergrad Education Stanford University, BA, 2015 Previous Experience Collective Health, Health 2.0/A HIMSS Innovation Company, Stanford University/Program in Human Biology HBS Activities Latino Student Organization (LASO) VP of admissions, Brew Club CFO, Health Care Club, Volleyball Club Topics Health Care & Treatment ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College