Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Life at UC » Student Employment » Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Set Navigation title in component Student Experiences Essential Resources Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Scholarships, Fellowships and Assistantships When you receive a scholarship, fellowship or assistantship, you may be required to work in return. Typically, this work occurs on campus with the University of Cincinnati as your employer. In certain circumstances, however, the work can be done elsewhere for a different employer. For example, you may work in a government or private research laboratory if your professor has a joint appointment, the employment is supervised and the work counts toward your degree. Application Process Apply for an assistantship. You can find available assistantships at jobs.uc.edu. Your hiring department adds you to the New Hire Checklist. This will take approximately 2 weeks after you are accepted for a job. Someone from your hiring department will let you know when you are on this list. Do not complete the rest of this process until you know that you have been added to the checklist. Submit an Onboarding Appointment request using iBearcatsGlobal. If you will be working for a UC department, then you will fill out the "Receiving a UC Paycheck" form. If you will be working for a campus restaurant (Starbucks, Subway, etc.), then you will fill out the "Non-UC Employee" form. If you are unsure about which category your job falls under, contact us. Receive an email confirmation of your request. Call UC International at 513-556-4278 to make an appointment for onboarding. Read your email carefully and follow the instructions: Complete the online I-9 form. Print the onboarding forms and complete them. Gather your passport, visa, DS-2019, and printed I-94. Arrive for your appointment on time! At Your Appointment You will fill out your application for your Social Security Card You will receive an authorization letter to present to the Social Security Office You will receive directions to the Social Security Office You will receive instructions on how to activate Direct Deposit (to get paid for your work) You will receive information on how to do your taxes UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top