Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Assessment Certificates Consultations Departmental Support English Language Support Fellowships & Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Orientations Tutoring Workshops & Roundtables Writing Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Orientations to Teaching at Brown The Center offers orientations to teaching at Brown for all new instructors. Launch New Faculty Orientation to Teaching at Brown The Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning offers a three-day Launch New Faculty Orientation to Teaching at Brown for faculty and postdocs. The orientation features: an overview of teaching at Brown by the Dean of the College and the Dean of the Graduate School conversations about university teaching resources with campus representatives student and faculty perspectives on teaching and learning at Brown the opportunity for small-group, division-based discussions workshops on inclusive teaching facilitated by Brown faculty and staff. The 2022 Orientation will take place August 2-4. To participate in Launch, please register here by Tuesday, July 19th at 12:00 PM (ET). Please contact [email protected] for more details or questions. Faculty and postdoctoral scholars who are unable to attend the orientation also have the opportunity to attend a workshop on Teaching for the First Time at Brown, offered in September and January. New instructors have the opportunity to ask questions and engage in conversation in an informal setting. Please see [email protected] for more information about this 60-minute session. Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs In this fully online, asynchronous, self-paced program, Graduate Teaching Assistants aim to improve their students' learning and their own experiences as teachers through a reflective exploration of their own practices and beliefs about teaching. While the program is designed for graduate TAs who are new to their roles, experienced graduate student TAs and graduate instructors may also find it useful as a continuing professional development opportunity. Participants in the Teaching Essentials program will: Reflect on their teaching and learning-related values Learn about inclusive teaching strategies Set goals for their teaching and learn how to assess their progress Prepare to teach and plan for the first days of class Prepare to TA in different learning contexts, including online environments Learn how to provide equitable feedback and grades to students Identify available resources to support their teaching and their students' learning If completing the program in full, participants can expect to spend 4-6 hours on the course. As the program is self-directed and asynchronous, participants may choose to complete this online Canvas course over multiple days or weeks at any point during the year. There are no in-person or synchronous Zoom components. This year’s program will open in mid-August, 2021. Enrollment is on a rolling basis. Register Here! The Sheridan Center also offers certificate programs for graduate students and additional workshops on other teaching topics. See our events page for upcoming dates. Undergraduate Teaching Assistant Orientation Not sure what to do to create an inviting learning environment? Are you interested in learning more about how to work with students? Need ideas for working online? The UTA Orientation will be facilitated through Canvas and will be made available for students beginning January 21. It will consist of four modules that address reflecting on your teaching values, preparing to teach, different teaching contexts, and resources.The core modules should take ~2-3 hours to work through. According to College Curriculum Guidelines, UTAs should be compensated by departments for time to complete required training. Registration is required to be enrolled in the Canvas site, which will be updated weekly. If you have any questions, please contact Dr. Christina Smith at [email protected]. To register, please fill out this UTAO google registration form. UTAs interested in an academic course about many of these same topics, with a community of other UTAs, may be interested in the Problem-Solving Fellows Program, which involves enrollment in UNIV 1110: The Theory and Teaching of Problem Solving this Fall. For questions about the UTA Orientation or the Problem-Solving Fellows Program, please contact Dr. Christina Smith ([email protected]). English Language Program The English Language Program is a two-week summer program that aims to equip incoming international graduate students for whom English is not a primary language with the language skills to feel confident and successful in navigating their academic contexts. For more information and to register, please see the ELP page. Programs & Services Assessment Certificates Consultations Departmental Support English Language Support Fellowships & Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Orientations Tutoring Workshops & Roundtables Writing The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top