Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Healthy Weight The Hassenfeld Study Injury and Poisoning Resources For Families Community of Learners Events Get Involved Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards Asthma Overview of the Asthma Initiative Approximately 9% of children in the U.S. have asthma. When asthma is poorly controlled, it can affect all aspects of children’s functioning. The burden of asthma for children residing in urban areas, such as Greater Providence, is concerning: 25-50% of children in some urban school districts have asthma. Thus, it is important to map high risk areas and chart the factors that lead to an increased risk of asthma outcomes. There exist several multi-level factors (biological, sociocultural, environmental, familial/cultural) that contribute to disparities in pediatric asthma outcomes and thus identifying these can inform better asthma programs and reduce the prevalence and risk of asthma outcomes. The overarching goals of the Asthma Initiative are to improve the health of children with asthma, make the communities we serve among the world’s healthiest places for children with asthma, address the issue of poverty and how it affects asthma risk and finally, serve as a national and international model of what can be achieved in pediatric asthma outcomes. Key People in the Asthma Initiative Leadership for the Childhood Asthma Research Innovation Program is from the Asthma Research team at Hasbro Children’s Hospital and Bradley Hospital, including Dr. Daphne Koinis-Mitchell and Dr. Elizabeth McQuaid, and supported by a team of faculty, staff and trainees. KEY PEOPLE Key Projects in the Asthma Initiative 1. Asthma Birth Cohort (ABC) Study This project will identify mechanisms underlying the associations between stress exposure in pregnant mothers and the development of asthma in their children. read more 2. Children with Asthma in their Real Environments (Project CARE) This project involves the examination of real-time associations among biomarkers relevant to asthma, asthma clinical indicators and behavioral factors to understand the mechanisms underlying disparities in asthma outcomes in high risk groups of children. read more 3. RI-AIR (Rhode Island Asthma Integrated Response) Program The RI-AIR initiative involves the development, implementation, and evaluation of an integrated identification, screening, and referral network for children with asthma in Rhode Island. Read more 4. Medicaid Asthma “Hot Spot” Analysis This project identifies geographic hot spots for asthma and other environmentally-mediated health conditions and examines neighborhood characteristics associated with asthma and other environmentally-mediated health conditions. read more 5. Evaluation of the Efficacy of Rhode Island’s Home Asthma Response Program (HARP) This project evaluates the efficacy of the Home Asthma Response Program (HARP), an evidence-based asthma intervention designed to reduce preventable asthma emergency department visits and hospitalizations among high risk pediatric asthma patients. read more 6. Neighborhood Risk and Pediatric Asthma Hospital Use This project evaluates neighborhood risk and pediatric asthma hospital use, utilizing ten years of data from the Lifespan Health System. read more Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Healthy Weight The Hassenfeld Study Injury and Poisoning Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top