Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Office of Education Diversity, Culture, and Inclusion Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Admissions and Financial Aid Careers & Practice Diversity, Culture, and Inclusion Educational Programs Student Affairs Teaching & Learning Online Education Admissions and Financial Aid Careers & Practice Diversity, Culture, and Inclusion Educational Programs Student Affairs Teaching & Learning Online Education Office of Diversity, Culture, and Inclusion Dr. Raygine C. DiAquoi Assistant Dean, Office of Diversity, Culture, and Inclusion The Office of Diversity, Culture, and Inclusion (ODCI) partners with Columbia Mailman students, faculty, and staff to provide opportunities to analyze and interrupt patterns of behavior and institutional practices that sustain systems of oppression at our School, Columbia University, and beyond. ODCI also maintains the Bias Response and Support System, which ensures that we hold each other and ourselves accountable to the School’s commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion by acknowledging and addressing bias-related concerns. Do you have an initiative in mind to bolster the School’s commitment to equity and social justice? Are you looking for ways to respond to individual/institutional challenges that prevent our school from meeting your expectations for an inclusive and equitable community? ODCI is here to both support and challenge you, as you prepare for careers in public health. Contact US To learn more about ODCI, visit our website. The best way to reach ODCI staff is via email. Our walk-in hours and appointment times can be found here. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 BARDA Support to Speed Development of Next-Generation Sequencing-Based Diagnostics PlatformMay 3 2022 Memorial Event Celebrates the Life of Zena SteinApr 27 2022 Bronx Gets Another Boost Toward a Clean Air FutureApr 25 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers