Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Professional & Continuing Education Continuing Education right arrow down arrow Contact Us OLLI right arrow down arrow About OLLI right arrow down arrow Locations Contact Us History, Mission & Vision Board of Trustees FAQs Classes & Registration Member Resources right arrow down arrow Member Handbook Class Handouts Teach for OLLI right arrow down arrow Moderator Info and Resources Support right arrow down arrow OLLI Donors Communiversity right arrow down arrow COURSES right arrow down arrow Arts & Handicrafts right arrow down arrow Floral Arranging Beginning Stained Glass Frame Loom Weaving Mosaics Wire Jewelry: Earrings Drawing Comics Learn to Crochet Art History at CAM Candlemaking Industrial Sewing Intro to Stained Glass Learn to Knit 1 & 2 Sketchbook Workshop Woodworking Computerized Woodworking Soldering & Circuits Laser Cutting & Engraving Soap Making Embroidery Summer Anklet Jewelry Mixed Media Acrylic Painting Color Mixing Intro to Watercolor Paint the Masters: Monet Paint the Masters: Renoir Paint the Masters: Van Gogh Painting Your Pet's Portrait Plein Air Painting Watercolor Florals Drawing Level 1 & 2 Music & Dance right arrow down arrow Ukulele : Level 1 & 2 Guitar: Level 1 & 2 Argentine Tango Dance Fiddling: Level 1 & 2 Mandolin: Level 1 & 2 Country Two-Step Wedding Dance Workshop Belly Dance Special Interest & History right arrow down arrow Cincinnati's Lost Architects Detective Series: 60s Murders History of FBI Cincinnati Chili Pyramid Hill Riding Tour Civil War: Morgan's Raid Cincinnati Mural Tour Photography right arrow down arrow Smartphone Photography 1 & 2 Photography: Level 1 & 2 Intermediate Photography Photo Retouching Fitness & Health right arrow down arrow Tai Chi Zumba & Bootcamp Lite Posture: Alexander Technique Belly Dancing Personal Development right arrow down arrow Insight Meditation Introduction to Voice Overs Makeup for Summer Journaling for Stress Relief How to Buy a Used Car Improv! Acting Personal Colors for Fashion Create Life You Love Personal Energy System Astrology Birthchart Care for Aging Skin Angel Cards Workshop Food & Drink right arrow down arrow Mozzarella Cheese Making Soft Cheese Making Sourdough Bread Making Winemaking at Home Feta Cheese Making Bourbon History & Tasting Home & Garden right arrow down arrow Organize Your Home Cactus & Succulent Centerpiece Staghorn Fern Wall Art Terrarium Lamps DIY Home Repairs Spring Ornithology Native Plant Tour Moss & Air Fern Wall Art Growing an Herb Garden Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Language right arrow down arrow Spanish: Level 1 Italian Level 1 & 2 Discover Sign Language Conversational French German: Level 1 & 2 English as a Second Language Sports right arrow down arrow Golf for All Levels Nature & Science right arrow down arrow Behind the Scenes at the Observatory Spring Birdwatching Cincinnati Moundbuilders Native Plant Tour Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Plants of Ohio Business & Finance right arrow down arrow Basic Computer Skills Financial Literacy Job Search Estate Planning Buying Your First Home Real Estate Investment Gift Certificates Travel right arrow down arrow Travel Health Travel Solo for Women Travel in Italy Lifelong Learning Online Ways to Register Location of Courses Frequently Asked Questions Suggest a Class Class Evaluation Teach a Class Test Prep right arrow down arrow LSAT TOEFL GRE/GMAT ACT SAT MCAT College Essay Writing CompTIA® Certification Prep Continuing Education for Teachers right arrow down arrow Arlitt Professional Educator Learning Series (APELS) Gifted Education Professional Development K-12 Blended & Beyond Teaching Learning Series Remote Teaching Learning Webinars Professional Development right arrow down arrow Healthcare & Fitness right arrow down arrow NASM Certified Personal Trainer Pharmacy Technician Certified Physical Therapy Aide Certified Nutrition Coach Business Management & Operations right arrow down arrow Lean Six Sigma Call Center Supervisor Certified Administrative Professional HVAC/R Training Marketing Technology Skills & Applications right arrow down arrow Adobe Certification Courses Microsoft Excel Google IT Support IT Fundamentals ITIL v4 Framework DevOps Certification Autodesk Revit Microsoft Power Platform School of IT: Tech Workforce Development right arrow down arrow Azure Cloud Technology Cybersecurity Bootcamp Networking Bootcamp Microsoft Excel Certification Project Management Certification (CAPM®) IMAP - Microcredentials Aspire Talent Acceleration Program right arrow down arrow For Employer Partners For Adult Learners Student Resources Home » About UC » Office of Professional and Continuing Education » Aspire Talent Acceleration Program » Student Resources Set Navigation title in component For Employer Partners For Adult Learners Student Resources Student Resources Have a question? Here is a list of student resources to help you navigate the program tools. We will continue to update this list periodically, so please check back often for information and additional support services. Helpful information getting around UC: How to Login to Classes and Email right arrow down arrow The University of Cincinnati uses a secure Central Login Service for students, faculty, and staff to access essential online services and tools. This includes accessing courses through Canvas; accessing your UC email account, online library resources, and more — all using the same Username and Password. About the Login Security System right arrow down arrow Two-factor authentication (2FA) adds a second layer of security to your online accounts. Verifying your identity using a second factor (like your phone or other mobile device) prevents anyone but you from logging in, even if they know your password. The University of Cincinnati utilizes Duo Security for two-factor authentication. Learn how Duo works and to set up your device. Canvas: Our Online Learning Platform - Student Guides right arrow down arrow Canvas is UC’s learning management system. Keep up with course announcements, track due dates with the calendar, check your grades, review instructor feedback and communicate directly with teachers and classmates. UC created a Canvas 101 for Students course site which walks you through Getting Started, User Preferences, Participating in the Course, Getting Help. See also UC's Knowledge Base for Canvas help articles. Keys to Success for Online Learning right arrow down arrow Online learning offers flexibility and convenience to study any time and any place. However, just like a face-to-face course, it requires strong time-management, regular interaction with fellow students and instructors, and commitment and dedication to learning. UC's Keys to Success pages include topics that will guide you through the differences in an online classroom environment and help you become a successful online learner. Canopy: Your Personal Page for UC Support right arrow down arrow UC's Canopy, is your personal page to connect with all the information and services you have as a student at UC. From your homepage, you have easy access to tools like your student email, Microsoft Word, parking information, shuttle bus schedule, your course schedule and more. UC Accessibilty Services right arrow down arrow At UC, we are committed to providing full and equal access to students, employees, and visitors with disabilities. The University is actively engaged in improving the accessibility of our community, in the classroom, in the workplace, on-campus and online. You can learn more about UC and accessibility by visiting the Accessibility Resources website. Prepare for Your NEXT Career right arrow down arrow LinkedIn Learning offers thousands of helpful videos and online courses available to you for free as a UC student. Topics ranging from excel to professional and career development. Career coaching is the core of the Bearcat Promise Career Studio. This service is available at no cost to undergraduate students, graduate students, and alumni of the University of Cincinnati. As a candidate, your goal in a job interview is to reach the next stage of the search process, which is to receive an offer. Understanding what to expect in an interview will give you an advantage. Read how to be prepare for your NEXT interview. An effective resume is more than a list of your skills and experience. It serves as your professional introduction and a way for you to market and differentiate yourself. UC's Resume Writing Guide will walk you through creation of a resume that will best represent you to the organizations, programs and opportunities you hope to pursue. Career Services right arrow down arrow Handshake is a career platform used by the University of Cincinnati where students, career centers, and recruiters come to meet, talk, and share opportunities. Update your profile and start networking today! There are lots of ways to grow your career at Kroger. Start by creating profile at jobs.kroger.com. UC Library Services right arrow down arrow Whether onsite or online, we continue to connect students, faculty, researchers and scholars to dynamic data, information and resources. With your UC central login, you can access UC Libraries online. Additional services: LinkedIn Learning right arrow down arrow As a CTAP student, you have access to a wide array of additional courses via LinkedIN Learning to grow your skills even further. For example: Project Management Fundamentals Sharepoint Online Essentials Agile Foundations Free & Low Cost Internet right arrow down arrow You will need a reliable internet service to participate in this program. If you are looking for internet service, we encourage you to use EveryoneOn. To find specific offers and find out what you are eligible for, check their website. Rental Assistance right arrow down arrow Hamilton County renters, who have been financially impacted by the pandemic, can still get help to stay in their homes. The Hamilton County Energency Rental Assistance Program draws on COVID aid to provide assistance for up to 12 months in past-due rent and utilities and/or can pay for three months in future for renters who live in Hamilton County and can document financial impact due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Apply for Rental Relief Invitation for non-profit community organizations: The CTAP program is made possible by a generous collaboration with the organizations of Microsoft, Cincinnati Innovation District, Community Action/Cincinnati & Hamilton Co., and the Ohio Department of Higher Education. We welcome additional non-profit organzations to list their services that are available to the students in this program. Please submit your information via this form, and we will review for posting as a link on the CTAP page on the UC website. Thank you! If you have any questions, please reach out to us at: ctap@uc.edu University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top