Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Philosophy (B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Who studies philosophy? How about comedian Stephen Colbert, political activist Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and filmmaker and author Susan Sontag, for starters? The word “philosophia” means “love of wisdom,” and — true to their name — philosophers have challenged, enlightened and sustained human society since the time of the ancient Greeks. Clemson’s philosophy degree will help you gain a broad understanding of the human condition and develop the ability to bring critical thinking and organizational skills to creative problem solving. The philosophy major is especially well regarded as preparation for law and medical school. Graduates also pursue graduate work in a wide variety of humanities, social sciences and other disciplines. With a law, liberty and justice emphasis area, Clemson’s program is well equipped to meet your specific career goals. FAST FACTS Clemson's Ethics Bowl public policy debate team has one of the most successful records of competitive debate in the United States. According to the Wall Street Journal, philosophy is the top-earning humanities major, ranking above chemistry, accounting and business management for midcareer earning potential. Our students go on to careers in business, management, policy analysis, real estate, law and health care. Philosophy majors receive some of the highest scores on admissions tests for law and medical schools, and recent Clemson philosophy majors have been admitted to the top law schools in the country. Philosophy majors conduct research alongside faculty members on topics of their choosing. Recent research topics include media influences on beliefs and animal rights. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Clemson’s philosophy degree will help you gain a broad understanding of the human condition and develop the ability to bring critical thinking and organizational skills to creative problem solving. The philosophy major is especially well regarded as preparation for law and medical school. Along with core courses in ancient, modern and contemporary philosophy, you’ll take specialized courses of your choosing from offerings as diverse as social philosophy, environmental ethics, philosophy of mind/cognitive science, and philosophy of film. Emphasis Areas Philosophy: This gives students great flexibility in their course work. You’ll learn about ancient and modern philosophy, and will choose from a wide range of philosophical topics tailored to your interests and career plans.* Law, Liberty and Justice: This emphasis area is primarily for pre-law students and others with a particular interest in questions of social justice and law. In addition to the core classes in ancient and modern philosophy, you’ll take classes in moral philosophy, social and political philosophy, philosophy of law and legal history. A pre-law internship is advised, and the department works with students to arrange it. *Pre-law and pre-medicine students majoring in philosophy should consult their departmental adviser for help in tailoring the program to their needs. Curriculum Philosophy, B.A. Popular Minors Economics Financial Management Psychology Similar Majors English (B.A.) History (B.A.) Modern Languages (B.A.) Religious Studies (B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Your academic home, Hardin Hall, is a central hub of critical inquiry at Clemson. Here you will find myriad opportunities to engage with other students, as well as faculty, outside the classroom. Faculty Philosophy and religious studies faculty are closely engaged with students. Debate and conversation continue long after class is over, as students hone their skills in logic, rhetoric and critical thinking. Internships We offer several internship opportunities, including a congressional internship in Washington, D.C., and one with the South Carolina Supreme Court under direction of the chief staff attorney. Research Students can take on Creative Inquiry research projects and work in teams led by a faculty mentor or pursue independent research projects with a faculty adviser.Learn More » Ethics The Intercollegiate Ethics Bowl Competition is a modified form of debate centered on case studies that raise questions of practical and applied ethics. More than 100 teams from across the U.S. compete each year. Read your Teachers Our philosophy faculty are focused, prolific writers on diverse topics including political thought, gender and sexuality, emotion theory, biomedical ethics, philosophy and film, and European and Chinese philosophy. Speakers Our speaker series brings nationally and internationally-known faculty to Clemson to discuss issues with students. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Philosophy student activities and organizations Creative Inquiry AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Broker Cushman & Wakefield Executive Legal Assistant King & Spalding 2nd Lieutenant United States Army Staff Assistant U.S. House of Representatives Policy Specialist Arnold & Porter RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES Ph.D. Philosophy Brown University M.Div. Duke University J.D. University of Georgia J.D. Harvard University M.A. Higher Education & Student Affairs University of Northern Colorado COMMON CAREER AREAS Business Health Professions Education Law Government Real Estate Information Technology FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jessica Garcia Recruiter jgarci6@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Philosophy (B.A.) English (B.A.) History (B.A.) Modern Languages (B.A.) Religious Studies (B.A.)