Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Student Housing Menu Search TTU Housing MLK Celebration 2022 SCHEDULE OF EVENTS Date Description Time Location/ link Monday, Jan. 17 MLK Day of Service Volunteer opportunities: MLK Day – Habitat for Humanity MLK Day – Booker T. Washington Community Garden MLK Day – Lubbock Memorial Arboretum *Time-specific to volunteer opportunity Sign-up at Needs | Volunteer Center of Lubbock (volunteerlubbock.org) Tuesday, Jan. 18 - Monday, Jan. 24 MLK WEEK ART EXHIBIT AT UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Tuesday, Jan. 18 4th Annual MLK Legacy March Reflection Route Hosted by University Student Housing 11:00 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. 11:00 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. MLK Wreath Placing Ceremony – Memorial Circle Reflection Route – Please see the route here and below Reflection Route Map Wednesday, Jan. 19 Voter Registration Drive Hosted by Student Government Association 12:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. SUB – Tabling *Across from Copy Mail Wednesday, Jan. 19 Living Legends Panel Hosted by Student Activities Board 12 p.m. - 1 p.m. Virtual Event: https://texastech.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_vy-De_iMSb6HuQSeSt4sMw Thursday, Jan. 20 | Jan. 27 Library Great Reads Kick-off Event Please join the Libraries' virtual Great Reads Book series on Kindred: A Graphic Novel Adaptation by Octavia Butler. 5:30 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. 5:30 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. Virtual Event: https://cal.library.ttu.edu/event/8751764 Friday, Jan. 21 Meals on Wheels Service Event *For TTU Faculty and Staff Sign Up to Volunteer Here: *Only Drivers* Click here to sign up! Saturday, Jan. 22 Men's Basketball Game The MLK Planning Committee will be recognized during the game. Free MLK shirts will be given out throughout the game 11:00 a.m. United Supermarkets Arena Monday, Jan. 24 Law School Speaker Event Dr. Crystal Kirkendahl The King Center | The Center for Nonviolent Social Change National Theme - It Starts with Me: Shifting Priorities to Create the Beloved Community Lubbock Commemorative MLK Committee City-Wide Events Individuals of Distinction Award Banquet Friday, Jan. 14, 2022 Lubbock Memorial Civic Center 1501 Mac Davis Ln. 6:30 P.M. $30 tickets Youth Night Saturday, Jan. 15, 2022 Lubbock Memorial Civic Center 1501 Mac Davis Ln. 6 P.M. Citywide Service Sunday, Jan. 16, 2022 Lubbock Memorial Civic Center 1501 Mac Davis Ln. 5 P.M. Gospel Night Monday, Jan. 17, 2022 Lubbock Memorial Civic Center 1501 Mac Davis Ln. 6 P.M. Volunteer Center of Lubbock MLK Day Service Events For more information on the events contact Karen Mitchell at MLKCCOL@gmail.com MLK Legacy March TTU's week-long celebration to commemorate the Life and Legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Junior will begin with a ceremony placing a special MLK commemorative wreath at Memorial Circle at 11 am -11:30 am. The kick-off event will include refreshments, remarks, and the opportunity to take part in a reflection route with activities to further your understanding and appreciation of the work and life of Dr. King. The 2022 MLK Legacy Reflection Route is a two-part program that will begin with the wreath placing ceremony and the rest of the day there will be a reflection route including 5 stops with activities for participates to learn, engage and reflect in commemoration of the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. The route starts on Boston Ave. at the Administration Building and the route, activities are detailed on posters found along the route. If you can't attend in person, we invite you to participate here as we have shared information that is featured at the reflection route on campus! Please view the MLK Legacy March: Reflection Route map The MLK Legacy March: Reflection Route activities are listed below. Tuesday, January 18, 2022 11:00am – 11:30am | MLK Wreath Placing Ceremony 11:30 am – 4:30 am | Reflection Route (Individual/Small Group Experience) Stop #1: Welcome Video Stop #2: Learn More about Influential Civil Rights Leaders Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. worked alongside, influenced, contributed to many influential leaders who were a part of the Civil Rights Movement. We would like to increase your knowledge of the community of leaders who took a stand, coordinated, and contributed to the Civil Rights Movement: Aileen Hernandez Claudette Colvin James Meredith Mamie Till (Emmett Till's mother) Rosa Parks Shirley Chisholm Stop #3: Reflect & Connect This is your time to reflect and connect with the following questions. Answer for yourself and/or chat with a friend: *questions also referenced from the “Be Love Day Challenge” by the King Center Why do you think MLK believed it was important to be engaged in the Community? How do you plan to be engaged in your community? Identify 3 local or national policies that are unjust and begin to research them. This week examine personal biases and stereotypes used throughout the week. Make note of each one and then find one solution to help remove that stereotype or bias from your life. Stop #4:Take the Pledge to BE LOVE Hosted by The King Center. The BE LOVE pledge is a growing movement of courageous acts to achieve justice. Stop #5: MLK Remembrance Wreath - Honor Martin Luther King Jr. by: Sharing how you plan to “BE LOVE” in 2022 Encouraging others to “BE LOVE” by sharing the pledge I acknowledge three things: 1. The violence, oppression, inequity, injustice, and hate in our world have to stop. 2. I have a responsibility and role to play in creating social change for a more just, humane, equitable, and peaceful world. 3. The decision is mine whether to do nothing at this moment or to have the courage to stand up for justice. And I have made my decision: Starting today, I make a personal choice to BE LOVE. I pledge to allow love to drive my thoughts, words, decisions, and actions and honor the humanity of every individual. I pledge to speak the truth to power in love. I pledge to focus on defeating injustice and not destroying the person. I pledge to support leaders who demonstrate a love for humanity. I pledge to promote unity and refuse to perpetuate or magnify division. I pledge to demonstrate a life of courage, care, and compassion as I boldly confront anything that stands in opposition to love. By signing this pledge, I'm helping to create what Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. called The Beloved Community. MLK 2022 University Wide Planning Committee: Center for Campus Life Office of Institutional Diversity Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Residence Halls Association Student Activities Board Student Government Association TTU School of LawUniversity Athletics University Library University Student Housing ARCHIVE 2021, 2020, & 2019 MLK Celebration University Student Housing Like University Student Housing on FacebookLike University Student Housing on Facebook Follow University Student Housing on twitterFollow University Student Housing on twitter Subscribe to University Student Housing on YouTubeSubscribe to University Student Housing on YouTube Follow University Student Housing on FlickrFollow University Student Housing on Flickr Follow University Student Housing on PinterestFollow University Student Housing on Pinterest Follow University Student Housing on InstagramFollow University Student Housing on Instagram Address Wiggins Complex, 3211 18th St., Box 41141, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-2661 | Fax: (806) 742-2696 Email housing@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 19, 2022 8:41 AM University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Back Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Sign Up Information Back Sign up for Housing Contract Information Off Campus Eligibility Red Raider Express Pass Residence Hall Selection Guide Room Availability Report Prospective Students University Student Housing Prospective Students Back Residence Hall Information University Student Housing Prospective Students Residence Hall Information Back Residence Hall Selection Guide Virtual Brochure Off Campus Eligibility Flex Housing Move In/ Move Out Red Raider Express Pass Room Change Housing Rates University Student Housing Prospective Students Housing Rates Back Housing Rates Rate Calculator Deposit and Billing Information About TTU University Student Housing Prospective Students About TTU Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions All Student Organizations Student Recreation Current Residents University Student Housing Current Residents Back My Housing University Student Housing Current Residents My Housing Back Hall Addresses and Mailing information FixIT Maintenance Request View Roommate and Dining Plan Move In/ Move Out Holiday Break Information Room Change Hospitality Services University Student Housing Current Residents Hospitality Services Back University ID Change Dining Plan Get Involved University Student Housing Current Residents Get Involved Back Student Organizations Social Justice Advocates Residence Hall Association Events University Student Housing Current Residents Events Back Carol of Lights® Professing Excellence Safe Treat Tunnel of Awareness End of the Year Banquet MLK Celebration Student Services University Student Housing Current Residents Student Services Back Academic Improvement Plan Housing Scholarships Residential Tutoring About Us University Student Housing About Us Back Leadership Team University Student Housing About Us Leadership Team Back Staff Directory Housing Areas University Student Housing About Us Housing Areas Back Administration and Business Services Facilities Services Residence Life Work for Housing Services and Resources University Student Housing About Us Services and Resources Back Conference Services Marketing Request Form Solicitation Form IT Helpdesk Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index