UT University Health Services https://wwww.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ APPOINTMENTS MyUHS SERVICES ABOUT UHS LOCATION CONTACT Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment Coronavirus updates COVID Positive: What To do Medical emergencies and what to do when UHS is closed Nurse Advice Line Charges and Insurance Immunizations and medical clearance requirements Medical and immunization record requests Search a health topic Meet the staff Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Affordable UT Student Health Insurance Plan Your feedback Incoming students International students LGBTQIA+ inclusive healthcare Longhorn Wellness Center Emergency HIV risk reduction Pharmacy Resources Sexual Assault Forensic Exams Volunteering FOLLOW US (512) 471-4955 Email UHS LOCATION 100 West Dean Keaton Student Services Building (SSB) https://www.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ Appointments MyUHS Services About UHS Location Contact UHS Virtual Well-Being Offerings for Groups The Counseling and Mental Health Center and the Longhorn Wellness Center have compiled resources for student-led groups such as First Year Interest Groups (FIGs), Transfer Interest Groups (TrIGs), Resident Assistants (RAs), Greek organizations, student organizations, academic classes, and other groups. The resources below are all offered virtually and designed to suit the needs of student groups during the COVID-19 pandemic. We recommend you use this page as a menu, and suggest starting with asynchronous or activities you can share with your group. These offer the most flexibility and don’t require prior planning with our team. Asynchronous Options The list below provides options that you can share with your group at any time. Some of these resources can be shared outside of the group meetings times and some can be shared during a virtual or in-person meeting. We recommend these options as a great place to start! Canvas Well-Being Modules You can ask your student group members to enroll in this Canvas course with well-being topics (physical health, mental health, social connections & community care, healthy relationships). Click here to enroll, then click on "Enroll in this course" on the upper right once you're there. Instructions about how to use these modules in your course can be found on the course. You can use one module or all of them! Everfi Learning Modules UT Austin has partnered with Everfi to provide online modules which share resources and information on various topics including: mental wellbeing, diversity, equity and inclusion, substance use and misuse, and sexual assault prevention. Fill out this quick form to receive access for you and/or your group! Videos Mental Health Quick Tips This video series, created by various staff at UT Austin, provides short tips for managing your mental health. Topics include sleep, motivation, supporting others, and more. Counselors in Academic Residence (CARE) Intro videos CARE counselors created these videos to introduce themselves and some of the most common reasons students seek mental health care in each college. If your group is affiliated with an academic department, you might find these videos helpful. Workshops On Demand Introduction to Interpersonal Violence Join Voices Against Violence and Not On My Campus to learn about relationship violence, sexual violence, and stalking, consent and healthy relationships, strategies for supporting survivors and resources available at UT. Consent and Trauma-Informed Classroom for FIG and TrIG Mentors This workshop will provides strategies for creating a classroom or group environment grounded in consent and trauma-informed practices. It includes information about supporting student survivors, campus resources, and bystander intervention. This workshop was designed for FIG and TrIG mentors, but is applicable for any student leader or peer facilitator. Crushes, Commitment, and Calling it Quits This interactive workshop explores healthy relationships from start to finish, including what makes a relationship healthy, setting and respecting boundaries, identifying unhealthy and abusive behaviors, and ending a relationship peacefully. Dating Violence and Stalking This workshop discusses the dynamics of dating violence and stalking, with particular emphasis on college students. Participants will learn about power and control, cycles of abuse, barriers to leaving a relationship, and strategies to support survivors. This workshop is relevant for students of all genders and sexualities. Self-Facilitated Activities This list provides ideas that you can include as an assignment, activity, and/or conversation starters based on different well-being topics for your class, student organization, and/or conversation starters. Mental Health Promotion Activities Self-Care Plan Download this self-care template for students to complete as an assignment. Debrief questions for the activity are also attached. Pie Chart of Daily Activities In class/meeting activity to help students examine how they spend their day and if they prioritize self-care.. Mindfulness Minute Get ideas on how to start your class, meeting, etc. with a mindfulness minute activity Deep Breathing Relaxation Script Download our breathing script and have students’ practice. Progressive Muscle Relaxation Script Download our progressive muscle relaxation script to help students relax their body. Social Connections Icebreakers Download our list of potential icebreakers to start off your class/meeting. Social Connections Bingo Help facilitate students learning about each other with this social connections bingo sheet. Gratitude Journal Download a Gratitude Journal here. Pick a page (Or more!) for your group to complete. Grateful Writing Prompt Create space for students to write a gratitude letter to someone who has positively impacted their life with this prompt. Sticky Notes Activity Encourage students to write notes (in person or digitally) to their fellow longhorns to express their gratitude. Mad Lib Resilience Activity Send students a digital copy of the resilience Mad Lib to explore ways they’ve bounced back from failure and rejection in the past. How You Treat a Friend Writing Prompt Ask students “How would you treat a friend?” and help explore self-compassion through a friend’s perspective. Sleep Promotion Activities Sleep Diary Your group can each use this editable diary to track sleep over a week, allowing space to notice habits and trends that are either aiding sleep or need to improve. Sleep Strategies Worksheet Ask your members to use this checklist to note current barriers to sleep (technology, stress and sleep environment, etc) and then work together to select our suggested strategies to help mitigate these barriers. Apps to help you sleep/Unplug to dream Have your group try one of our recommended apps to support healthy sleep and learn how to “put your phone to bed” and “unplug to dream” when it’s bedtime, then use the app as a conversation starter at your next meeting. Set Up Your Room for Sleep Success Just moved into your on-campus residence hall or off-campus apartment? This handout can help you arrange your room for maximum sleep success! Texas Well-being The resources on this page describe strategies that you can use to embed well-being in your group/class. Topics include things like social connections, gratitude, mindfulness and more. Thrive at UT App A free app designed to enhance UT student well-being and help busy students live their best life. Thrive at UT consists of eight topic areas, which include community, gratitude, self-compassion, mindfulness, mindset, thoughts, moods, and purpose. Assign one or more modules to your group members/class to promote healthy habits and great discussion. Virtual Mindfulness and Stress Reduction Activities You can complete one of these activities during your group or meeting and/or encourage your members to spend some time outside of your meeting time engaging with mindfulness activities. List of mental health resources for UT students Share this list with your group or class. Synchronous/Live Options (Via Zoom) If none of the options above seem like a good fit, or you’ve completed some of them and want a deeper dive, you can request that CMHC or LWC staff member drop into your virtual meeting/group. For these options, we do require advanced notice. We are offering the following live options this fall: Peer Educator Workshops Request the Longhorn Wellness Peer Educators to present to your FIG, residence hall and/or student meeting! We provide evidence-based workshops delivered by trained students on a variety of health topics including self-care, bystander intervention, sexual health, resilience, and more! This is a wonderful option if you want a live student-led presentation. Request a workshop here! Debrief Canvas Modules Debrief Canvas modulesIf your group has completed one of or more of the Canvas well-being modules (listed above in the “asynchronous” section), you can request a staff member to join your group to discuss and debrief that topic. Email longhornwellnesscenter@austin.utexas.edu with “Canvas Module Debrief” in the subject line. Staff Led Workshops Longhorn Wellness Center Staff can offer workshops on a range of health and wellness-related topics. If possible, please request at least 2 weeks in advance. To see more about our offerings, visit this page. Recovery Ally Trainings The Center for Students in Recovery offers live Recovery Ally Trainings monthly and by request. These trainings aim to guide participants through learning about recovery from substance use disorder, identifying and responding to stigmatizing behavior and language, and creating a campus culture that embraces recovery. Learn more about Recovery Ally Trainings. Request Staff Support If your group is struggling with a challenge that is impacting their mental health, you may request CMHC/LWC to provide support and information. To request contact from a staff member click here. If you are unsure of which option best meets your needs contact longhornwellnesscenter@austin.utexas.edu. SHARE YOUR FEEDBACK ABOUT THESE OFFERINGS Get Adobe Reader INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement STI Testing Sexual assault forensic exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and Immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations or gender identities/expression. SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations, or gender identities/expression. INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement Get yourself tested Sexual assault exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff Home l ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin l UT Emergency Information l Accessibility l Privacy l Finding Credible Health Information Online l Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination l Staff Intranet