skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Undergraduate admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Why study in Reno? Request information Apply Visit News Give International Student Admissions A Carnegie R1 Institution Undergraduate admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Why study in Reno? Request information Learn how to apply to the University The University of Nevada, Reno is recognized as a top National University by U.S. News & World Report, one of the country's top research institutions, holding Carnegie® R1 Classification and being named a Carnegie® Engaged University. Select your student type to learn about the admissions process. Undergraduate students Undergraduate transfers Graduate students Scholarships As an international student, you are eligible for different scholarship opportunities, such as $1,000 to $12,000 for new international students to general University scholarships from $500 to $8,000 per year. Explore scholarship opportunities today. International scholarships University of Nevada, Reno campus This 2018 view of the University of Nevada, Reno campus from the north shows the Joe Crowley Student Union, the Mathewson-IGT Knowledge Center, the William J. Raggio Education Building, the Nazir Anasari Business Building, the Fitzgerald Student Services Building, and the E.L. Wiegand Fitness Center. Credit: Jeff Dow Toggle Image Description for University of Nevada, Reno campus Tuition and costs On average, the University of Nevada, Reno's tuition is less expensive than comparable Tier 1 institutions in the United States. Estimated tuition for international students is $23,562 per year. Learn more about the cost of attending the University. International tuition and fees Study at a burgeoning tech hub next door to Silicon Valley As industry leaders continue to make Northern Nevada their home — Apple, Google, Tesla, Amazon, IBM, and Switch, to name a few — the University is connecting students and scholars with these innovative neighbors, giving them access to the best tools and resources for learning and research. Undergraduate research Graduate research Since 2009, we've invested $850 million in you. Once you prowl the campus, you'll want to join the Pack. 290 acres. 180 buildings. 60 research facilities. 12 museums and galleries. 13 schools and colleges. $850 million invested in advanced labs, residence halls and facilities to drive your success. Explore campus Explore colleges and schools Explore residence halls Reno-Tahoe Reno is packed full of amazing things to do, setting it apart from many other small cities. Located two blocks from downtown Reno, the University is close to amazing coffee shops, whitewater parks, river walks, and so much more. With 250+ days of sunshine each year, Reno is only a two-hour drive to Sacramento, California and a four-hour drive to San Francisco, California. Why study in Reno? Contact us to get started Mike Murry International Admissions & Recruitment Coordinator Email: mmurry@unr.edu WhatsApp: +1 (775) 784-6874 Request more information Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX