Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF LAW SCHOOL OF LAW LAW Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 LAW 100 Introduction to American Law (2-5, max. 5) I&S Theodore A Myhre Examines the structure of the American legal system and how laws are made. Surveys key doctrinal areas of the law learning fundamental legal concepts, and explore how the law functions and evolves over time, including legal issues and decision-making related to statutory or common law. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW 100 LAW 300 Introduction to Law (3-6, max. 6) I&S Understanding the legal system, its functions in the social-economic order, legal reasoning, and the world of legal education and the legal profession. Open to nonlaw students only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW 300 LAW 305 Global Health and Justice (3) I&S Beth E. Rivin Explores health as a human right, focusing on injustices and inequities that occur around the world that result in disease, disability and death. Using a justice framework, considers social determinants of health and vulnerabilities of marginalized groups. Students learn about sustainable development goals, human rights law, bioethics and the pivotal role that law and ethics play in addressing injustices in health, including in the U.S. Offered: jointly with G H 305; W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW 305 LAW 310 Law, Science, and Technology (4) I&S View course details in MyPlan: LAW 310 LAW 410 Problems in Professional Responsibility (4) I&S View course details in MyPlan: LAW 410 LAW 415 Criminal Justice (3) I&S Examines pre-trial rights of persons suspected or accused of crime, primarily those rights covered by the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and Fourteenth Amendments of the U.S. Constitution. View course details in MyPlan: LAW 415 LAW 416 International Contracting: Negotiation and Drafting (3) I&S Skills course designed to introduce process and problems of negotiating and drafting international agreements. Client interviewing and counseling and negotiation and drafting of a contract between parties in the United States and Japan. Open to nonlaw students only. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW 416 LAW 422 Copyright (3) I&S View course details in MyPlan: LAW 422 LAW 429 Public Land Law (3) I&S View course details in MyPlan: LAW 429 LAW 440 Legal Issues of Internet Law (3) I&S Introduces the basic legal issues raised by networked digital technologies, such as the Internet. Covers jurisdiction, speech, privacy/access, propriety rights (copyrights, domain names), emerging law, leading policy debates, as well as fundamental Internet technical skills. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: LAW 440 LAW 442 Land Law and the Urban Environment (3) I&S Examination of the major legal tools available to shape the urban environment by controlling the use of land. Considers zoning, subdivision controls, urban renewal, private land-use restrictions, and the rules of nuisance law. Open to law and nonlaw students. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW 442 LAW 443 The Legal Process I (3/5) I&S The system of law and its functions rather than substantive law pertaining to any particular subject or discipline. Open only to nonlaw students. View course details in MyPlan: LAW 443 LAW 444 Constitution and American Public Education (3-6, max. 6) I&S Examines the relationships between the Constitution of the United States and the American system of public education, excluding higher education, in areas of constitutional freedom and legal controls, racial desegregation, and equal educational opportunity, including equal financing of the public schools. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with EDLPS 444. View course details in MyPlan: LAW 444 LAW 445 Major Issues in American Constitutional Law (3) I&S Significant themes in American constitutional law. Doctrine of judicial review, application of the Bill of Rights to the states, Supreme Court's recognition of fundamental rights, the Equal Protection clause, the Religion clauses, freedom of speech, and presidential powers. Open to law and nonlaw students. View course details in MyPlan: LAW 445 LAW 447 Critical Perspectives in Law (3) I&S Examination of modern critical legal thought and critics views regarding proposed alternative forms of social ordering. View course details in MyPlan: LAW 447 LAW 476 International Economic Relations and Trade Policy (3) I&S Consideration of international control of national trade policies and permissible transnational reach of national trade or other regulation. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and the international monetary system examined from legal and economic perspective. Examination and comparison of prescriptive jurisdiction to public international law. View course details in MyPlan: LAW 476 LAW 477 Law, Literature, and Film ([2-4]-, max. 4) VLPA/I&S An examination of literary and cinematic portrayals of and issues important to law, lawyers, and the legal system. Considers both portrayals purporting to depict the legal system as well as works envisioning lawyers and the legal system in a "better world.". View course details in MyPlan: LAW 477 LAW 481 Land, American Culture, and the Law: Perspectives on the Use and Ownership of the Natural Environment (1-6, max. 6) I&S View course details in MyPlan: LAW 481 LAW 489 Law and Aging (3) I&S Survey of principal areas of law of special concern to aging population, considering healthcare and healthcare decision-making, public and private income maintenance programs, taxation, guardianships, conservatorships, and other methods of protecting the property of the elderly, counseling, and professional responsibility. View course details in MyPlan: LAW 489 LAW 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: LAW 600 LAW 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) View course details in MyPlan: LAW 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022