Skip Navigation OU to Honor the Class of 2022 During 130th Commencement Ceremony Search: ABOUT OU ACADEMICS ADMISSIONS & AID CAMPUS LIFE ABOUT OU ACADEMICS ADMISSIONS & AID CAMPUS LIFE SUPPORT OU VISIT APPLY NOW open my nav close my nav INFORMATION ABOUT OU ACADEMICS ADMISSIONS & AID CAMPUS LIFE NEXT STEPS APPLY NOW VISIT OU SUPPORT OU FOR YOU ALUMNI FUTURE SOONER PARENTS OU STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF EXPLORE OU ATHLETICS NEWS & EVENTS CALENDAR RESEARCH CAMPUS SAFETY OUTREACH CONTACT OU Recent Articles OU Confers Degrees to More Than 10,200 Students During 130th Commencement Ceremony OU Board of Regents Approves Administrative Appointments, Additional Online Degree Offerings and More; Harroz Announces Plans for OU Polytechnic Institute OU to Graduate More Than 1,100 Health Care Providers and Scientists OU Receives Major Gift From McCasland Foundation to Enhance Oklahoma’s Engineering Workforce Needs United States, France Cooperation Advances International Weather Research view more OU to Honor the Class of 2022 During 130th Commencement Ceremony May 05, 2022 The University of Oklahoma will honor the achievements of the Class of 2022 during its 130th Commencement ceremony, to be held at 7 p.m. Friday, May 13, at The Gaylord Family – Oklahoma Memorial Stadium, 190 W. Brooks St. A time-honored tradition filled with pageantry, graduates and guests will be welcomed by the Kiowa Black Leggings Society and the Pipes and Drums of the Highlanders. Bestselling author and New York Times columnist David Brooks will serve as OU’s 2022 Commencement speaker, and the university will present honorary degrees to five outstanding individuals. A pre-Commencement concert begins at 6:20 p.m., and the processional of the president’s platform party, faculty and doctoral graduates to the stadium begins at 7 p.m., with music provided by the University Commencement Choir and Band. Flags representing OU’s international and Native American communities will be displayed during the ceremony. The ceremony will feature the official conferring of degrees by OU President Joseph Harroz Jr. During the ceremony, OU expects to confer degrees to 10,264 students who completed their coursework during the spring 2022 semester, as well as summer and December 2021 graduates. This year, OU will award approximately 6,483 bachelor’s degrees, 2,301 master’s degrees, 383 doctoral degrees, 1,053 professional degrees and 44 college-level certificates. The ceremony will conclude with a fireworks display as a salute to the Class of 2022. This year’s Commencement ceremony will also be available for livestreaming at link.ou.edu/may-2022-commencement. Stadium gates will open at 5 p.m., and guests will be seated in upper sections 2-5 and 32-35. Doctoral candidates should enter the stadium through Gate 7 and master’s candidates, undergraduates and guests should enter through Gates 2, 7, 9, 11, 12 or 13. Sign language interpreting services for guests who are deaf or hard of hearing will be available in section 32, and captioning will be available on the south screen. Gate 9 is the preferred accessibility entrance for guests who need special accommodations. To obtain accessibility parking and seating passes, guests should complete this form. PARKING Parking is avaialble for guests and graduates in the Jenkins Avenue Parking Facility, Asp Avenue Parking Facility and the Duck Pond Parking Lot. Parking will also be available at the Lloyd Noble Center, 2900 S. Jenkins Ave. Shuttles from the Lloyd Noble Center to the stadium will run from 4 to 10 p.m. Accessible parking is located immediately east of The Gaylord Family – Oklahoma Memorial Stadium and can be accessed from Brooks Street. Commencement ushers will be available before and after the ceremony with wheelchairs and golf carts to assist guests with accessible needs. To obtain accessibility parking and seating passes, guests should complete this form. To protect guests and graduates as they walk to the stadium, Jenkins Avenue will be closed from Brooks Street to Lindsey Avenue beginning at 3:30 p.m. VENUE SECURITY In an effort to make graduation weekend as safe as possible, the following security procedures will be in place. All guests and graduates will pass through a security screening before entry to the graduation venue, with medical lanes for those who require alternate screening methods. The clear bag policy is also in effect. The approved clear plastic bag size is a maximum of 12 inches x 6 inches x 12 inches or a one-gallon clear plastic freezer bag. The policy will allow non-transparent clutch purses that are no larger than 4.5 inches by 6.5 inches. No other bags or purses, including diaper bags, will be permitted. The limit on bags is one per person. All carried-in items, including bags that are necessary for medical equipment, will be searched by security personnel prior to entering the venue. Express lanes will be available for those who do not bring bags to the venue. Items that are allowed for graduation ceremonies include: Clear plastic bags (1 per person) no larger than 12" x 6" x 12" One-gallon clear plastic freezer bags (1 per person) Non-transparent clutch purses no larger than 4.5" x 6.5" (1 per person) Bags necessary for approved medical equipment Approved family care items (diapers, formula, etc.) must be in a clear plastic bag Empty, clear plastic water bottles less than 17 oz. Seat cushions and chair backs smaller than 16" wide and without frames or armrests Still photography cameras Video cameras Prohibited items must be returned to the owner’s car or discarded, and any unlawful items are subject to confiscation. Alcohol (in all forms) Baby seats Baby strollers Backpacks, camera bags, diaper bags, fanny packs, purses or binocular cases Balloons Banners/signs Beach balls, footballs, balls or other sporting equipment Coolers, containers or ice chests Explosives, firearms or weapons Folding chairs or stools Food or drink Gift-wrapped packages Laptops Laser pointers Noise makers of any type (i.e., air horns, plastic horns, whistles, etc.) Personal heaters Pets (with the exception of registered service dogs) Selfie sticks, bi pods, monopods, etc. Umbrellas Guests also are reminded that all OU facilities are tobacco, electronic cigarette and vaping device-free. The use of all tobacco products including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipes, smokeless tobacco, electronic cigarettes and vaping devices is prohibited anywhere on the OU grounds or campus. INCLEMENT WEATHER LOCATION In the event of severe weather, Commencement will be moved to Lloyd Noble Center, 2900 S. Jenkins Ave. Doors will open at 5:30 p.m. and the ceremony will begin at 7:30 p.m. For additional information on Commencement and the inclement weather plan, visit www.ou.edu/commencement. For more information on OU’s May graduation ceremonies, visit ou.edu/commencement or email commencement@ou.edu. About the University of Oklahoma Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university located in Norman, Oklahoma. OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. For more information visit www.ou.edu. The University of Oklahoma 660 Parrington Oval, Norman, OK 73019-0390 (405) 325-0311 Accessibility Sustainability HIPAA OU Job Search Policies Legal Notices Copyright Resources & Offices OU Report It! facebook twitter instagram youtube OU Social Media Directory Updated 5/9/2022 by The University of Oklahoma: marcomm@ou.edu