Skip to main content Toggle navigation UNM A-Z myUNM Directory The University of New Mexico UNM A-Z myUNM Directory Help StudentInfo FastInfo Apply to UNM The University of New Mexico provides online applications for Undergraduate, Graduate and International students. Take a bold step toward your future and apply today to the state's Flagship University! Before you Apply: Albuquerque Campus Applications International Student Applications Branch Campus Applications Before Applying Before you begin your online application please check the admissions requirements for your desired Program: First Time Freshman Transfer Students Non Degree Readmission International Graduate Studies Process: Select your campus or application type from above Click the button to the appropriate application Begin the Application process. Albuquerque Campus Students applying to the Albuquerque Campus should use the applications below. Undergraduate Application Graduate Application Non-Degree Application International Applications International Students should use one of the applications below.International Undergraduate Application International Graduate Application Branch Campus Applications Students applying to a UNM Branch campus should use the appropriate application below. Gallup Gallup Campus ApplicationGallup Admissions Los Alamos Los Alamos Campus ApplicationLos Alamos Admissions Taos Taos Campus ApplicationTaos Admissions Valencia Valencia Campus ApplicationValencia Admissions Things to Keep in Mind If you have already submitted your application for admission (either online or by mailing a hardcopy) and did not pay the associated application fee at the time you applied, you may use your credit card to pay your admission application fee online. Note on the use of social security numbers: The University of New Mexico uses students' social security numbers as identification at the University. The number is used for record-keeping and statistical purposes only and is not disclosed to other parties for any purpose without written authorization of the student. The authority to use the social security number comes from the Board of Regents and was adopted on March 24, 1967. If you have questions please call us at (505) 277-8900 or search for answers at StudentInfo. Mail In Application If you would prefer to mail in your application, please download, print, and fill out the appropriate Application below. Undergraduate Application(Degree, Non-Degree, High School Dual Credit/Concurrent) Other Applications Housing Anderson School of Management School of Medicine School of Law College of Pharmacy College of Nursing The University of New Mexico is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity institution. To comply with the ADA and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, UNM provides this publication in alternative formats. If you have special needs and require an auxiliary aid or service please let us know. Academics Academic Calendars Class Schedule Colleges & Schools Course Catalog Degrees & Certificates Graduate Studies Campus Life Arts & Entertainment Athletics Diversity Recreational Services Student Activities Student Union Resources Bookstore Computing Continuing Education Employment Libraries UNM Newsroom I Count NM (Census 2020) Information for… Alumni Faculty Parents & Families Patients Public Records - IPRA Staff EVP for Health Sciences Search APPLY Now Visit UNM Give to UNM © The University of New Mexico Albuquerque, NM 87131, (505) 277-0111 New Mexico's Flagship University UNM on Facebook UNM on Instagram UNM on Twitter UNM on YouTube more at social.unm.edu Accessibility Legal Contact UNM Consumer Information New Mexico Higher Education Dashboard