Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Transfer students Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Transfer students As a transfer student, you may already have some experience with financial aid. While the thought of paying for school at UW may seem overwhelming at first, there are many types of financial aid available to help with your educational and living expenses. Check out our transfer student Quick Guide for more information. To be considered for aid All transfer students are considered for the same types and amounts of aid as other UW students as long as their aid application is received by the UW before January 15th. Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). For the best aid, meet our priority filing date of January 15 each year. You can apply after January 15 and some types of aid are still available. If you are ineligible to complete the FAFSA, you may be able to complete the Washington Application for State Financial Aid (WASFA) instead. Once awarded aid, you will be sent an email to your UW email to view your award online at MyUW. More information about applying for aid can be found here: Applying for aid. Total aid received $429,000,000+ Scholarships: 12% Grants: 50% Loans: 37% Work study: 1% Types of aid Grants and scholarships are types of aid you do not have to pay back, and are generally awarded to students based on financial need and/or merit. Work study is an opportunity for students to work part-time and earn a paycheck to help cover expenses, plus earn experience in a professional environment. Loans are a type of aid that must be paid back after you graduate or stop going to school. Scholarships When you file a FAFSA/WASFA, you are automatically considered for UW scholarships based on financial need. Additional scholarships may be available depending on your academic department or program. Once a student at the UW, make sure you connect with the UW Office of Merit Scholarships, Fellowships & Awards for information on UW merit scholarships and national awards. They offer a searchable database to find scholarships and advice on preparing a competitive application. There are also many scholarships external to the university. Student loan questions Taking out loans to pay for educational and living expenses while in school may seem daunting at first, but loans can actually be a good option to help you get your degree and set you up for success later on in life. I'm unsure if I'll get a good job after I graduate. What if I don't make enough money for loan repayment? UW students are some of the most employable graduates in the state of Washington. In fact, 89% of 2016 graduates were employed or continuing their education within 6 months of graduating. Plus, federal loans have a number of repayment options, including an income-based repayment plan. Income-based repayment ensures that your required monthly payment will not be more than 10% of your discretionary income. How much will I need to borrow? That depends on how long it takes to complete your degree, your eligibility for other aid besides loans, and your personal spending habits. For those students who borrowed at the UW campuses, last years’ graduating class left with about $22,417 in cumulative average loan debt. This is below the national average borrowed at public schools of $25,550. I'm afraid my loans will go into default if I can't pay them off. Loan default rates for students at the UW are actually quite low. Compared to a national rate of 11.3%, UW students have a default rate of only 2.5%. Why do I need loans? Can't I just use other forms of aid? Of course, loans should be your last resort for paying for school. We do not have enough funds to award you all grants so we end up awarding some loan to help you meet your financial need. We encourage students to fully utilize grants, scholarships, and employment wages before considering loans. However, if you do need to fill a financial gap, you can decide how much or how little you want to borrow in loans. You can always repay your loans early, too, without penalty. [/accordion] What’s next As you continue your education at the UW, the Office of Student Financial Aid is here to support you. Our counselors can help you understand your options for all types of aid and provide more information about loan terms and repayment. Whether you are thinking of transferring, have already transferred, or are getting ready to graduate, our staff can help you every step of the way. Resources Applying for Financial Aid Parent Plus Loan New Borrowers of Federal Student Loans Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA