Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Student Life Date September 22, 2020 2020-09-22 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email PHOTOS: Brown welcomes second wave of students back to campus Sophomores, juniors and seniors moved into their residence halls from Sept. 18 to 20, launching the second stage of Brown's phased plan to resume in-person undergraduate activity. 1 of 9 A student returns to Hegeman Hall for the fall term. Brown invited sophomores, juniors and seniors to move back onto campus from Sept. 18 to 20, marking the start of the second stage of its phased return to in-person undergraduate activities. All photos by Nick Dentamaro. 2 of 9 A returning student grabs a to-go meal outside the Sharpe Refectory. These meals are being provided to students during the Quiet Period, a 14-day period after arrival during which they remain in residence halls for all but a few essential activities. 3 of 9 Sophomore Amit Kundra checks in before moving into a residence hall for the Fall 2020 semester. 4 of 9 Students on the Main Green walk past a Healthy Brown sign with a COVID-19 prevention reminder. 5 of 9 Students check in outside of the Sharpe Refectory as they return to campus for the Fall 2020 semester. 6 of 9 A squirrel oversees student move-in on Wriston Quad. 7 of 9 Socially distanced members of the Brown community pass time on Simmons Quad. 8 of 9 An undergraduate moves into Hope College dorm. 9 of 9 "Stay Safe" stickers mark safe social distance on the sidewalk outside of the mailroom. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Brown University has moved one step further in its phased return to in-person operations, as approximately 700 students moved into campus residence halls on the weekend of Sept. 18 to 20, two weeks before in-person instruction for some small undergraduate courses is scheduled to resume. These students joined the small group of 400+ undergraduates who arrived at Brown in late August as part of the first phase of student arrivals. The move-in involved new precautions designed to keep the campus community safe during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Students and families met move-in staff who offered them room keys, to-go meals and helping hands from behind masks and plexiglass barriers. The campus was dotted with signage reminding community members to observe public health guidelines. And all returning students promptly began to observe the Quiet Period — a 14-day period during which they remain in residence halls for all but a few essential activities, to prevent possible spread of infection. In other ways, the day looked like any other fall move-in, complete with friends enjoying campus green spaces and families saying goodbye to their loved ones as signs of fall unfolded around them. The slideshow above offers scenes — both timely and timeless — from the day. Tags Campus Life The College Related news: Student Life Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics April 20, 2022 For 10 years, a student-run organization has taken to the air, delighting audiences with circus-inspired performances on trapeze, aerial silk, lyra and more. Read Article Open details for Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics Student Life Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community November 8, 2021 Brehan Brady — a self-described working-class kid from Pawtucket who transferred to Brown from the Community College of Rhode Island — joins other student veterans in forging a new path after their military service. Read Article Open details for Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community Student Life For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities November 4, 2021 With classroom experiences across the Open Curriculum and support from the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship, Perez built on her own experiences to launch EmpowerU, a startup that connects low-income students to higher education resources. Read Article Open details for For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search PHOTOS: Brown welcomes second wave of students back to campus Open details for PHOTOS: Brown welcomes second wave of students back to campus Bookmark this Page