Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Here, We’re Transforming Health Care Here, We’re Transforming Health Care Health care costs too much and advances too slowly. Too many people rely on emergency rooms instead of preventive care. Important stakeholders often aren’t part of the conversation about how to improve it. We’re attacking these problems with the urgency they deserve, and doing it in partnership with our community. A New Chapter The University of Texas at Austin has long been home to standout health-related programs like nursing, pharmacy, biomedical engineering, and research into addiction. In 2013, UT opened a new chapter in the story of American health care by launching the first new medical school at an established Tier 1 university in nearly 50 years, Dell Medical School. Its first students have been introduced to a new way of understanding medicine and thinking about their educations. And new waves of philanthropy — evident in the Mulva Clinic for the Neurosciences, the Livestrong Cancer Institutes, and the Mitchel and Shannon Wong Eye Institute — have further expanded the reach of our medical school. All In Faculty and students from our schools of business, social work, fine arts, communications and others collaborate with health-focused peers to transform policy and the economics of health care and value-based care. We want to improve patient outcomes, reduce costs, and give families, caregivers and providers a better experience. Collaboration is Key UT partners with more than 75 industry and government organizations and develops outcome-focused technologies, procedures and treatments like intelligent sensors for at-home heart monitoring and new approaches to treat Alzheimer’s disease. Educating Physician Leaders Created from scratch, Dell Med’s unique curriculum is designed to focus students on the distinct challenges of 21st-century health and medicine. Learn more Another Year, Another Nobel Laureate For the last two years, a Texas alumnus has won the Nobel Prize in physiology or medicine. Learn More Is this the world’s most powerful “pen”? Macarthur Fellow and UT Emerging Inventor of the Year Livia Eberlin develops a “pen” that detects cancer on contact. Learn More First-Class is Public We Do High-Impact Research We’re Transforming Health Care We Create a More Vibrant Texas Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022