Menu Close Menu Skip to content Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public HealthHarvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health main site homepage Quicklinks About the School Academics Admissions Research Faculty Student Life News Alumni Frontiers Make A Gift Give Publications Contact Us Search for: Search C-CHANGE | Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health About Us Meet the Team Jobs Our Work Research Programs 2021 Annual Report News and Events News Events The Climate Optimist Educational Programs The Climate Optimist Welcome to your monthly dose of good news about climate change. Climate change can feel heavy sometimes. But we have the solutions to create a healthier, more just, and sustainable world, and people across the globe are working hard to make it happen. We’ll bring you helpful tips and good news to help you stay focused on our shared mission to tackle climate change. Subscribe now! Check out past issues: 2022 May: The emotional roulette wheel of climate change April: Climate things going right March: The medicinal properties of hope February: Finding your place in the climate movement January: 16 Climate Creators to Watch in 2022 2021 November: November was a BFD (Big Fossil Deal) October: We interrupt your doom scrolling with a message from reality September: Letting go of climate guilt in 5 easy steps August: Self care in the time of ‘OMG really? Now this too?’ June: Climate optimism is not about magical thinking May: Pollen, policy, and possibility April: What you need to know about Earth Month 2021 March: Top 7 reasons for climate optimism February: Policies with no climate action are out like skinny jeans and side parts January: The future is bright! Behold our catalogue of shiny things. 2020 December: 6 opportunities for health-focused climate action in the Biden administration October: Transportation, climate, and health September: Voting for climate and health August: Back to school (sort of) July: Only good news, because OMG #2020 June: Racial justice requires climate action May: World-wide climate action within our reach April: We can emerge a different society. Here’s what that could look like. March: Heroes in the pandemic February: Climate Change at the (Clinical) Bedside January, Part 1: Green Resolutions January, Part 2: The Most Important Action You Can Take 2019 November: Talking Climate at Thanksgiving October: Spooked by Climate Change? September: Climate Week is the Turning Point August: Back to School July: The Heatwave Edition June: Climate-friendly Cookouts, 10-Point Policy Agenda May: How to Start a Conversation About Climate Change April: Evidence in Action March: Profiles in Climate Courage February: Science not Silence, and Climate Change in the News Subscribe now! Three Reasons to be Optimistic about Climate Change 401 Park Drive 4th Fl. West, Suite 415 Boston, MA 02215 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Directions Subscribe to The Climate Optimist for stories of climate hope and action. Submit Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College Email * What area of work are you in? * Select list(s) to subscribe toNewsletter Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from C-CHANGE | Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. Please leave this field blank. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: Center for Climate, Health, and the Global Environment (Harvard Chan C-CHANGE), The Landmark Center, Boston, MA, 02215, http://hsph.harvard.edu/c-change/. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact