Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Sunil Tohan Class of 2021 Brown has helped Sunil Tohan forge strong connections — with inspirational professors, the local community and the wider world. Breadcrumb Home Academics Undergraduate Education Sub Navigation In This Section Undergraduate Programs The Open Curriculum Special Programs Advising Sunil Tohan Class of 2021 Brown has helped Sunil Tohan forge strong connections — with inspirational professors, the local community and the wider world. Sunil Tohan is quick to talk about his role models and mentors, including his academic advisor, Sarah Taylor; Alex Nading, a senior fellow for International and Public Affairs; and Professor Paul Armstrong, his first English literature professor. “Brown has a unique campus culture and climate that I've found to be so supportive and positive,” he says. In Dr. David Egilman’s lab, Sunil is researching public health crises created by large corporations that impact communities of color, low-income communities and other marginalized groups. This experience, and Dr. Egilman’s guidance, have opened Sunil’s eyes to how public health coursework could translate to the real world. It’s these faculty advisors and mentors who have made Sunil’s time at Brown so meaningful. Brown has a unique campus culture and climate that I've found to be so supportive and positive. – Sunil Tohan As a student advisor to first-year Brown students (called a “Meiklejohn’ in Brown-speak), he tries to do the same for new students. “It's so rewarding to forge real friendships with my first-year advisees, and be a person they rely on and turn to when they have questions or need support,” he says. “The atmosphere of students taking responsibility for their education here is unique and unparalleled.” Sunil also tutors adults with developmental disabilities and volunteers with an organization that serves youth experiencing homelessness. “The street outreach and policy work I do through the Swearer Center Community Corps has real impact on the people of Providence, and I’ve made so many authentic, strong connections with community members,” he says. “The work I do has a direct connection to public health, and is so fulfilling for me. My coursework and community engagement go hand-in-hand at Brown.” Sunil traveled to Ethiopia last summer to intern with a foundation supporting the country’s new federal nutrition public health program. The experience reshaped his understanding of the field of global health and widened his network of friends and mentors. “The internship in Ethiopia was an incredible experience,” he says. “Prior to that, I thought a career in clinical medicine was the only viable route with a degree in public health, but in Ethiopia I learned how I could actually work in public health. In terms of work, I had the opportunity to meet the prime minister at a really crucial time in Ethiopia's political history.” Everyone Sunil has connected with during his time at Brown has challenged him, supported him and expanded his worldview. “I feel especially grateful to be at Brown and have access to all of the opportunities that I do here. It’s been an amazing place to study.” Learn more about: Meiklejohn peer advising Swearer Center Community Corps Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Sunil Tohan Open details for Sunil Tohan Bookmark this Page