Skip to main content Top Left Menu Explore Donate Top Right Menu For You Log In Account Newsletters Profile Logout Subscribe Megamenu Mobile Insert Donate For You Subscribe Megamenu Left Menu Podcasts Video Writers Print Issues Journeys Events Classifieds Search Newsletters Megamenu Right Menu Politics & Society News Editorials US Politics Dispatches Racial Justice Immigration Environment Art & Culture Books Film Television Theater Poetry Art Ideas Catholic Book Club Faith Pope Francis Faith in Focus Faith and Reason Spirituality Theology US Church Scripture The Word Megamenu Bottom Menu Listen Lorem Ipsum Read Watch Loading... Loading... Click here if you don’t see subscription options FaithFaith in Focus Why Pete Frates is a model for Jesuit-educated students Quentin Dupont, S.J.December 13, 2019 Pete Frates participated in the “Ice Bucket Challenge” to raise awareness for A.L.S. research at Fenway Park in Boston, Mass., on Thursday, August 14, 2014. (Photo credit: BC Athletics) I met Pete Frates in the fall semester of 2012, when I addressed the Boston College baseball team as their new chaplain. It was my first day attending practice, and I also met the team’s staff: coaches, volunteers and a tall, athletic man who was introduced to me as “Pete.” After I talked to the team, Pete kept telling me how he liked my speech. “You hit the nail right on the head,” he said a couple of times. As practice unfolded, I witnessed how, after an at-bat or a drill, the players would come to Pete and talk about their swing or footwork. Pete offered them feedback and lots of encouragement, too. Since the announcement of Pete’s passing on Monday, his life story has been featured everywhere from local news outlets to The New York Times, to the BBC and ESPN. Rather than rehearse Pete’s biography—you know him as the inspiring young man who helped make the “Ice Bucket Challenge” go viral in 2014—I want to present his life through the lens of Ignatian spirituality. More to the point, I see Pete as a model for the Jesuit-educated student-athlete, the Jesuit-educated student and all students of Ignatian spirituality. Deep Desires The goal of the Spiritual Exercises of St. Ignatius is to make an election—that is, to find a sense of where God is calling the retreatant in his or her discernment. This election is about a big decision, one that stems from the retreatant’s deep desires, that which brings forth the greater glory of God. I see Pete as a model for the Jesuit-educated student-athlete, the Jesuit-educated student and all students of Ignatian spirituality. Pete was a person of deep desires. At Boston College, he was a student-athlete with a double major. His foremost passion was baseball, and his skill, enthusiasm and leadership led him to the role of team captain. When graduation came, he still loved the sport he grew up playing. So he left family and friends and headed to Germany to play baseball in the land where soccer is the king of the sports. It must have taken some serious desire about playing and teaching the game, to pack everything and head overseas. When I first met Pete, he had already received his A.L.S. diagnosis, but he mentioned nothing about his condition. The illness had not progressed too much yet. I could notice a subtle slur in his speech, and his step seemed a bit off. That day, Pete simply introduced himself, told me how much B.C. and its baseball program meant to him and made sure I felt at home in the program. Pete was not the kind of person to draw attention to himself. He was there for a deeper purpose: to help those around him. Through all this, and for the years to come, he shared his passion for the game with the players, one by one. Above all, he had a great desire to educate, to be of service to the program, to give back to a place that gave him so much and to make everyone feel they could reach their full potential. He would do this even after he was in a wheelchair. When he could not speak anymore, he texted players to give more advice and encouragement. Pete’s deep desire was to see others be their best selves. “The glory of God is humanity fully alive,” St. Irenaeus said. Pete, in his constant attention and care for those around him, wanted to bring forth this glory. “The glory of God is humanity fully alive,” St. Irenaeus said. Pete, in his constant attention and care for those around him, wanted to bring forth this glory. Learning Humility: Leave It Better for the Next Guy Collegiate athletic programs have slogans that sum up their uniqueness. The motto of the Boston College baseball program is “Leave it better for the next guy.” In Jesuit-speak, this translates to “Be a man for others.” The B.C. baseball program is a school where young men learn to be men for others, and Pete was its master student. Pete’s career as a student-athlete, as a member of the B.C. baseball staff and as an A.L.S. advocate embodies the selflessness of “Leave it better for the next guy.” Of course, his parents’ example and his high school years with the Xaverian Brothers contributed to Pete’s apparently effortless altruism. His time at Boston College propelled him to ever greater heights in the realm of living to make things better for those around him. On the toughest day of his life, Pete Frates turned to what was at the core of his being: How can I make this situation into something better for the next A.L.S. patient? Yet it is Pete’s post-college career that shows how fully he understood and lived the principles that form the core of Jesuit education. What 27-year-old, just told he has about five years to live, calls his former coach to say he sees his diagnosis an opportunity? The very day he received this awful diagnosis, Pete gathered his family. The meeting’s purpose was to brainstorm ways not only to tackle his illness but to help build a systematic approach to A.L.S. research so future patients would be given a fair fight against the disease. On the toughest day of his life, Pete Frates turned to what was at the core of his being: How can I make this situation into something better for the next A.L.S. patient? The essence of this impulse was a spirit formed to be a man for others, to be selfless in humility. This was not just a pipe dream: It was the fuel for a $200 million fundraising campaign for a disease that had been neglected for decades. The Difficult Path to Ignatian Indifference In his attitude toward his diagnosis and his disease, Pete made good on his claim to have been given an opportunity. He continued to educate for as long as he lived, to make others’ lives better. He did not let his condition hinder his deepest desires. This is a lived testimony to what St. Ignatius calls “indifference.” The first meditation of the Spiritual Exercises is called “The First Principle and Foundation.” It sets the tone for the whole retreat. In this meditation, we read: For this it is necessary to make ourselves indifferent to all created things as much as we are able, so that we do not necessarily want health rather than sickness, riches rather than poverty, honor rather than dishonor, a long rather than a short life, and so in all the rest, so that we ultimately desire and choose only what is most conducive for us to the end for which God created us (No. 23, emphases added). Pete had, as a young man, achieved this indifference, this sense of complete freedom between health and sickness. In his fight against A.L.S. and his advocacy for all current and future A.L.S. patients, he came to take every day as a gift rather than worry about how long or short the rest of his journey might be. RELATED STORIES I was diagnosed with A.L.S. With God’s help, I lived to send my son to Notre Dame Shawn Sexton The Catholic high school that holds funerals for homeless veterans Mike Kotsopoulos Pete’s passion for learning and sports, his desire to share his gifts and talents to make the world better for those around and after him model the true humility of Ignatian indifference. Pete’s ever-selfless and other-oriented stance in the most unexpected and greatest struggle of his life show us the fruits that Jesuit education can yield. For those of us current or former students of Jesuit schools, Pete should not just become a remote inspiration. Pete’s life is a modern-day canvas of the Spiritual Exercises and a concrete example of the Ignatian call to “set the world aflame.” For those skeptical of the role of religion and spirituality in our day and age, Pete’s journey should be a window into the power of God’s peace and power, discerned and lived for the betterment in the world. Rest in peace, Pete, but do not let us rest until we take seriously the lessons you taught us. More: Jesuits / Catholic Education / Sports / Death and Dying Quentin Dupont, S.J. Quentin Dupont is an American Jesuit born and raised in France. Show Comments () Join the conversation: Login or create an account Before you can comment, you need to update your profile to include your first and last name, as required in our comments policy. Then reload this page and you'll be set up for commenting. Update your profile Show Comments ( ) Comments are automatically closed two weeks after an article's initial publication. See our comments policy for more. Most popular 1 I don’t think we should be banning anyone from the Eucharist. John Whitney, S.J. 2 Pope Francis names 21 new cardinals, including Bishop Robert McElroy of San Diego Gerard O’Connell 3 How America Sold Out Little League Baseball John W. Miller 4 Bishop McElroy: Pope Francis and Vatican II give us a road map for the synodal process Robert W. McElroy 5 Pope Francis is remaking the College of Cardinals—and setting the stage for the eventual election of his successor Thomas Reese - Religion News Service Your source for jobs, books, retreats, and much more. Felician Sisters Volunteers in Mission Volunteer Opportunity in Detroit, Michigan Volunteer / Vocation Pastoral Associate for the Brooklyn Oratory Parishes Xavier Theatre & Film Theater Francis in Iraq Movies / Films The D’Arcy Lectures 2022: Preparing for the Moral Life Seminars See all Classifieds The latest from america Bishop McElroy says championing Pope Francis’ vision for the church led to his selection as cardinal Bishop McElroy said he and the pope share a view that the church should focus on “more inclusion” and “outreach to people who have been alienated from the church in the past.” Michael J. O’LoughlinMay 31, 2022 Pope Francis is remaking the College of Cardinals—and setting the stage for the eventual election of his successor With the appointment of 16 new cardinal electors, Pope Francis continues remaking the College of Cardinals with an emphasis on the person rather than the location of the bishop. Thomas Reese - Religion News ServiceMay 31, 2022 Jon Hassler put Catholics’ complicated fear around Vatican II into his novels Jon Hassler wrote novels that examined with infinite compassion the lives of the residents of small-town Minnesota. James T. KeaneMay 31, 2022 Bishop McElroy: Pope Francis and Vatican II give us a road map for the synodal process Having begun the process of synodality, we should not let the process go dormant until after the pope’s apostolic exhortation on the universal synod is released in 2024. Robert W. McElroyMay 31, 2022 THE JESUIT REVIEW OF FAITH AND CULTURE Footer Menu One About Us Careers Writing Guidelines Privacy Policy Contact Us Footer Menu Two Donate Subscribe Press Room Advertise Classifieds Marketplace Newsletter sign upSign up for free Follow us Copyright © 2022 America Press Inc. | All Rights Reserved. × We noticed you haven't confirmed your email address. We ask our visitors to confirm their email to keep your account secure and make sure you're able to receive email from us. You can either click on the link in your confirmation email or simply re-enter your email address below to confirm it. Trouble getting registered? We’re sorry registration isn't working smoothly for you. Check out some of the most common solutions, and if those don’t fix your issue, contact us at members@americamedia.org. | Close this message Log in to your account Why am I being asked to log in?We ask readers to log in so that we can recognize you as a registered user and give you unrestricted access to our website. You can also manage your account details and your print subscription after logging in. Logging in will also give you access to commenting features on our website.Read more about our privacy policy. | Close this message Create a new account Why am I being asked to create an account?if you are trying to comment, you must log in or set up a new account. this helps us promote a safe and accountable online community, and allows us to update you when other commenters reply to your posts. Read more about our policies | Close this message Good news—this is your 5th America article this month. Register for FREE or log in to continue reading. When you register, you’ll get unlimited access to our website and a free subscription to our email newsletter for daily updates with a smart, Catholic take on faith and culture from America. Wondering why we ask for your email, or having trouble registering? Since you’re a frequent reader of our website, we want to be able to share even more great America content with you and let you know about more ways to get involved with our media ministry. There’s no charge or cost for access to the website, we’ll never sell your email and you can unsubscribe at any time. Read more about our privacy policy here. If you’re having trouble registering, check out some of the most common solutions, and if those don’t fix your issue, please contact us at members@americamedia.org. | Close this message Email Password reset instructions will be sent to your registered email address. Submit Email or username Password Log in Reset your password Help America keep bringing you stories like this As a frequent reader of our website, you know how important America’s voice is in the conversation about the church and the world. We can't do it without you—America Media relies on generous support from our readers. Please visit our membership page to learn how you can invest in our work by subscribing to the magazine or making a donation. If you’re already a subscriber or donor, thank you! If you login and register your print subscription number with your account, you’ll have unlimited access to the website. Please contact us at members@americamedia.org with any questions. Subscribe Donate Remind me later