Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships About U-SoA News and Events People Academics Resources Admissions Search Design Build Undergraduate Graduate U-SoA in Rome Our Rome Center What To Know Before You Go Travel Programs Summer Programs for High School Students Certificates Research About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships Design Build Undergraduate Graduate U-SoA in Rome Our Rome Center What To Know Before You Go Travel Programs Summer Programs for High School Students Certificates Research Home Academics U-SoA in Rome AAA U-SoA in Rome Design Build Undergraduate Graduate U-SoA in Rome Our Rome Center What To Know Before You Go Travel Programs Summer Programs for High School Students Certificates Research GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply 2020-2021 Rome Program Application August 31 - December 16, 2020 January 19 - May 12, 2021 The University of Miami School of Architecture sponsors fall, spring, and summer courses in Rome, Italy. Founded in 1999, the Rome Program brings together a select group of upper level undergraduate and graduate students, faculty members, and professionals for an intensive experience in design, drawing, history, and theory of architecture and urban design for one semester. The curriculum is delivered in situ via lectures, studio sessions, workshops, guided walking tours, and fieldtrips. Acceptance to the Rome program is based on grade point average, a portfolio, and an essay of intention. Application deadline is Monday, November 18, 2019. Application materials may be uploaded to arc.miami.edu/Rome. Courses The curriculum includes one design studio and 4 elective courses which are focused on special topics such as drawing, art, architecture history, theory, and urbanism. In addition, workshops and brief intensive seminars may complement the core curriculum. The total number of credits offered in Rome is 18. Estimated Expenses $25,200.00 Tuition (Estimate) $ 3,800.00 Lodging (approximately $42.00/day) $ 2,889.00 Rome Meals ($27.00 per day) $ 2,500.00 Program Fee, Inclusive of Field Trips $ 1,250.00 Estimated Round Trip Air Fare: Miami to Rome $ 80.00 EU Visa Cost $ 185.00 AXA International Health Insurance (required by Italian law) $ 150.00 Permit of Stay (required by Italian law) $36,054.00 ESTIMATED TOTAL FOR SEMESTER THE TUITION AMOUNT LISTED ABOVE REFLECTS THE WAIVING OF THE FOLLOWING STUDENT FEES FROM STUDENT ACCOUNTS: Activity Fee, Student Center Fee, Wellness Center Fee, Health and Counseling Centers Fee, and Athletic Fee U-SoA Rome Center The U-SOA Rome Center is located in the historic center of Rome within walking distance of St. Peter’s Basilica. The studio is equipped with a reference library, exhibition and lecture space, workstations, wireless internet access, and scanning and printing equipment. The Rome Center is a bring your own device facility requiring students to use their own laptops. Information on the Center’s technology resources will be provided in a separate document. The Rome Center address is Via del Falco 1/A, Rome, Italy 00193. Rome Scholarships are available. For more information please contact Rome Director, Prof. Carmen Guerrero, carmeng@miami.edu University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Architecture 1223 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284 3731 (305) 284 3731 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices