Skip to content 414-251-3550 information@swimke.org 3070 N 51St Street Suite 510 Milwaukee, WI 53210 Icon-facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin About Us Resources Community Partnership Swim Hub Contact us Donate Menu About Us Resources Community Partnership Swim Hub Contact us Donate Join The Community About Us Swim Hub Resources Community Partnership Contact us Donate Join the Community Menu About Us Swim Hub Resources Community Partnership Contact us Donate Join the Community Listen Scaling Wellness in Milwaukee (Marquette in Milwaukee podcast) Read Marquette University seeks to 'help people heal' from trauma (Crux Now) Watch A program in Milwaukee to help people recover from trauma (WISN 12) A Little Introduction Scaling Wellness in Milwaukee (swim) SWIM was formed to increase strategic partnership between local service providers addressing generational trauma in Milwaukee. Vision : An equitable Community where all can thrive. SWIM was formed to increase strategic partnership between local service providers addressing generational trauma in Milwaukee. Values : Inclusion Trust Collaboration Equity SWIM was formed to increase strategic partnership between local service providers addressing generational trauma in Milwaukee. Strategies : Capacity Building Wellness & Resiliency Trauma informed Training Advocacy and public awareness Community Outreach Research Help People Now SWIM enables people and organizations to collaborate who might not have the opportunity to do so in the past. Community members, CBOs, and other non-profits are doing fantastic work in MKE but can be so much more powerful when we work together. Discover More Let’s Become a Volunteer Urgent Help is Needed New Events Upcoming Events View All Events 18 Nov 2021 Date and time Thu, November 18, 2021 7:30 AM – 9:00 AM CST Potawatomi Hotel & Casino (Serenity Room) 1721 West Canal Street Milwaukee, WI 53233 United States Scaling Wellness in Milwaukee Mission: To drive community-based collaboration that helps prevent and respond to trauma and creates a resilient Milwaukee Vision: A just and equitable community where all can thrive Register Now Testimonials Quotes About Swim "They (SWIM) choose to convene, not command, to listen, not pronounce. They help create a vision where trauma is healed and a stronger community is created." Mary Triggiano deputy chief judge in Milwaukee County and regular SWIM attendee. Quote from Milwaukee Journal Sentinel "The group determined that the organization would focus on supporting — not competing with — existing organizations working to address trauma." Frank Cumberbatch vice president of engagement for Bader Philanthropies and a member of SWIM. Quote from BizTimes "SWIM is stepping out of the box elevating and focusing on all the hard work grass roots organizations are doing by giving us room and resources to grow." Santana Lee Executive Director, All 4 Kidz Inc "Every Problem that we encountered in the criminal justice system has its roots in trauma" John chisholm Milwaukee county district attorney quote from Milwaukee journal sentinel Mission: To drive community-based collaboration that helps prevent and respond to trauma and creates a resilient Milwaukee Twitter Facebook-f Instagram Linkedin Links About Us Resources Community Partnership Swim Hub Contact us Donate Menu About Us Resources Community Partnership Swim Hub Contact us Donate Upcoming Event Scaling Wellness in Milwaukee Contact 414-251-3550 information@swimke.org New SWIM HUB Scaling Wellness In 3070 N 51St Street Suite 510 Milwaukee, WI 53210 © 2021 SWIMMKE. All Rights Reserved. Come Join our event Scaling Wellness in Milwaukee (SWIM) Partner Event Become a member