Skip to main content The Magazine of the University of Central Florida | Archives In This Issue Spring 2022 Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. NOV. 4 Rapper Denzel Curry performed at the Addition Financial Arena for Concert Knight during Homecoming. NOV. 5 Moderna’s Director of Immunology Darin Edwards ’97 ’10MS ’11PhD delivered a keynote speech during the makeup commencement ceremony for Class of 2020 graduates — where he was also awarded an honorary doctoral degree in public service. DEC. 1 Students posed for a photo at the Winter Wonderland event at Memory Mall. DEC. 3 College of Nursing students tested out new mixed reality headsets, which were donated by General Dynamics Mission Systems and will benefit students across various disciplines at UCF. JAN. 3 Central Florida artist Naomi Haverland created a new anamorphic mural inside UCF Downtown’s Communication and Media Building. JAN. 12 Forward C.J. Walker scored 12 points in a game against Memphis in the Addition Financial Arena, helping the Knights secure a 74-64 victory over the Tigers. JAN. 24 Associate Professor of Counselor Education Dalena Dillman Taylor shared her work about the role of play in childhood development for UCF’s Research in 60 Seconds series. To watch the series, visit bit.ly/ucf-research-60. FEB. 22 The new Elevation mural in the east wing of UCF Downtown’s Dr. Phillips Academic Commons is a vibrant reminder of how education can help people reach new heights. Designed by graphic design alum and local artist Christian Stanley ’11, the mural was completed with help from community members during an event celebrating UCF Downtown’s contributions to surrounding neighborhoods. “The artwork is intended to uplift viewers and remind them of their goals and potential,” Stanley says. Jump to top More from the Spring 2022 Issue More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816