Skip navigation About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Global Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support Office of International Programs Approved Programs in the United Kingdom Selecting a British university at which to study abroad is similar to choosing a U.S. college to attend as an undergraduate. An institution's academic strengths, location, and campus culture are the main considerations. Because Britain is a compact nation, public transportation is efficient, and the offerings of city life are within reach. Sites outside of London (such as Glasgow, Edinburgh, Bristol, or Sussex) allow for an in-depth experience of British life and culture at a reasonable cost. Residential-style campuses, a marked contrast to the commuter-styled campuses found in many cities, are found in other sites outside of London. All of these options are large universities where you will enroll directly along with UK students, which allows for entry to most any disciplines across the university As with any Approved program, you must first complete an application through the Office of International Programs (OIP) and must apply directly to the host institution/program provider for admission. We have included information from the universities’ own promotional statements, along with GPA requirements when applicable. Please visit their websites, the OIP website, or make an appointment with an advisor to learn more. ENGLAND Goldsmiths University of London (Semester/Year) Minimum GPA: 3.0 Beautiful and historic campus all based in one place, which is unique for London. Highly regarded courses in the arts, design, social sciences, humanities, management, and computing taught by top lecturers in outstanding facilities. Ten-minute train ride from London Bridge station. King’s College London (Semester/Year) Minimum GPA: 3.3 King's is one of the UK's most historic and prestigious universities. With a forward thinking vision and state-of-the-art facilities, King's is renowned for excellence in both its innovative teaching and pioneering research. Based in the heart of central London, and spread across five London campuses, King's is one of the largest multi-faculty institutions in the UK. *Pre-Med/Public Health: special Health & Society program offered Note: Psychology is offered only as a full-year option for study abroad students at King's. London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) (Full Year only) Minimum cumulative GPA: 3.3 Note: students applying to quantitatively based departments (i.e. economics, accounting and finance, mathematics, and statistics) should have 3.5 GPA or better in related courses, and be sure they will have completed the relevant course pre-requisites indicated in LSE class descriptions by the time they go abroad. The General Course is LSE’s sole study abroad programme, which originally began in 1910. You may study any combination of more than 300 available courses covering the full range of social science subjects. You should be in the top 10-15 percent of your home university. You will have the unique opportunity to experience a year of fully integrated study at the world’s leading dedicated social science institution. London Theater Program Sponsored by Sarah Lawrence College and the British American Drama Academy (BADA), the London Theatre Program is designed for dedicated students who are passionate about their work and serious about acting. Students may enroll in the single semester program in either the fall or spring. Audition required. Queen Mary University London (Semester/Year) Minimum GPA: 3.0 Studying Abroad at QMUL is a once-in-a-lifetime experience. You will immerse yourself in your chosen subject and study in one of the world’s most exciting cities, while living in the comfort and convenience of our self-contained campus. It is an academic adventure like no other. SOAS University of London (Semester/Year) SOAS is the leading Higher Education institution in Europe specialising in the study of Asia, Africa and the Near and Middle East. Study Abroad students can choose from over 400 modules to build a unique programme across each of our three Faculties - Arts & Humanities, Law & Social Sciences and Languages & Cultures. University College London (UCL) (Semester/Year) Minimum GPA: 3.3 *Some departments expect at least 3.5 and a good background in relevant subjects Note: UCL is NOT accepting study abroad students into their Computer Science department. At UCL we’re proud of our pioneering history, our distinguished present and our exciting future. Assessed as one of the top ten universities in the world, UCL is a multidisciplinary university with specialisms in most subjects from across the academic spectrum and a strength in interdisciplinary study. Our diverse staff and student body, and our location in the heart of London, give you unrivalled personal, social and academic benefits which will enhance any CV or résumé. Slade School of Fine Art, University College London (Semester/Year) The Slade offers a small number of places to undergraduate affiliate students of proven ability and commitment to study on the full-time Independent Studio Programme, specialising in painting, sculpture or fine art media. Affiliate students follow the same studio programme as students studying on the BA and BFA in Fine Art. Students work in the studios and are assigned to a tutorial group which meets regularly. They are expected to be highly motivated and, under the guidance of their personal tutor, able to generate and sustain their own programme of work University of Bristol (Semester/Year) Minimum GPA: 3.0 Discover how our innovative, research-rich education makes us one of the world's top 60 universities. Choose classes from across the University to create a personalised academic programme. Our six faculties offer a wide variety of subjects, which can be combined to create a diverse and intellectually stimulating programme. Bristol is 90 minutes from London and was named "Best Place to Live in the UK" in 2017. University of Cambridge, Pembroke College (Full Year only) Minimum cumulative GPA: 3.75 Other requirements: strong background in relevant subjects required. Brown may nominate two students each year to attend Cambridge University. OIP applications are due December 1, which will then be followed by in-person interviews with the OIP nominating committee. University of Cambridge applications for nominated students are due in early-mid January. Cambridge Information Sheet Full Year 20-21 University of Exeter (Semester/Year) Minimum GPA: 3.0 Live in one of the most beautiful parts of the UK while studying at a world class university. We offer students the opportunity to choose modules from over 30 departments including Archaeology, Business, Biosciences, English Literature, Politics, and Sport and Health Sciences. Modules are taught by internationally acclaimed academics who are passionate about their subject. Our high quality education is offered in a safe, supportive and friendly environment at our campuses in Devon and Cornwall. University of Oxford (Full Year only for all colleges) Brown partners with six colleges at Oxford. Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.5/3.7 and a strong background in relevant subjects. University of Oxford, Pembroke College University of Oxford, Mansfield College University of Oxford, St. Peter's College University of Oxford, St. Edmund Hall University of Oxford, Lady Margaret Hall University of Oxford, St. Anne's College OIP applications are due December 1. Applications for the respective Oxford Colleges are due in early-mid January. Oxford Information Sheet Full Year 20-21 University of Sussex The University of Sussex isnone of the largest study abroad programmes in the UK, where students can choose from more than 1,000 modules. The University is located 10 minutes from the centre of the vibrant and cosmopolitan seaside city of Brighton & Hove, on a safe and welcoming campus. Sussex is ranked in the top 10 universities in the UK for Brighton's diverse nightlife (pubs, clubs and music venues) and political activities. London, the historic capital of the UK, is just an hour away by train, and Gatwick Airport is 30 minutes away by train. SCOTLAND University of Edinburgh Minimum GPA: 3.0 Internationally ranked research university located in the very heart of Scotland’s capital; a capital which is consistently considered one of the most desirable places to live in the world, and is also ranked the greenest in the UK. The Glasgow School of Art The Glasgow School of Art is a great opportunity to explore different courses in fine art and design in a studio setting in Glasgow, Scotland. Additionally, this programme allows study abroad students the possibility to study one course with the University of Glasgow. University of Glasgow The Study Abroad programme is designed for visiting students who wish to study at the University of Glasgow for a semester or year as part of their undergraduate degree programme. At Glasgow, you can choose from a range of courses that allows you a broad academic experience and the ability to match your study abroad options with your home degree programme. We also offer unique courses specifically designed for our Study Abroad students. St Andrews University Nestled on the east coast of Scotland, St Andrews provides an intimate and friendly environment; with historic buildings juxtaposed against modern facilities, along with the many student traditions, St Andrews offers a truly unforgettable way to experience Scotland. Housing Most UK host universities have residence hall space for study abroad students, but the spaces go quickly, especially with limited supply in the spring term. Students are advised to complete their housing/accommodations applications as soon as they are accepted to a program. Related Files Oxford Information Sheet Full Year 22-23 Cambridge Information Sheet Full Year 20-21 Related Links 2019/20 Estimated Program Costs Managing Your Money Abroad, Cornell-Brown-Penn UK Centre Home Study Abroad COVID-19 Updates Programs Distinctively Brown/Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) programs Approved Programs Petition Process Summer Programs Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) Independent Study and Undergraduate Research Application Deadlines Meet with an Advisor Study Abroad Peer Advisors Faculty Advisors for Study Abroad FinancIal Information Getting Started Health & Safety Resources for Abroad Returning to Brown For Families Faculty & Staff OIP Events & Activities About the OIP Print this Page Share this Page Office of International Programs Brown University Box 1973 Page-Robinson Hall 420 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3555 Fax 401-863-3311 [email protected] For Global Travelers Controller's Office Travel Policies and Procedures International Health Insurance Register with Brown's International SOS Service Tips While Abroad - The Take It With You Guide Brown Travel Portal IT Security Travel Tips International Research Administration Travel Clinic For Global Visitors Office of International Student & Scholar Services (OISSS) International Health Insurance Brown Travel Portal International Student Resources Visiting Undergraduate Students Visiting Research Fellows and Non-Degree Graduate Students Study Abroad Office of International Programs - Undergraduate Study Abroad Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards Graduate School Partnerships and Exchanges Grant Opportunities Our grant database offers a wide range of funding opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and researcher in different fields of work. Search Grants Social Media Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Top Destinations Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Map & Directions Social Media Dashboard Contact Us Giving to Brown