Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Forward Arrow Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Back Arrow Back Graduate School Admissions Visit Forward Arrow Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Back Arrow Back Applying to Clemson Forward Arrow Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Admissions Undergraduate Admissions show submenu for Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Graduate School Admissions Visit show submenu for Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Applying to Clemson show submenu for Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Clemson Home Admissions Applying to Clemson Current: First-Year Application Process Apply to Clemson as a First-Year Student Ready to join the Clemson Family? Apply now. Clemson Application Coalition Application Common Application You are considered a first-year applicant if you are currently enrolled in high school or have not enrolled in or earned credit at another college or university following high school graduation. Application Schedule and Deadlines Fall Semester Enrollment Date Event August 1 Application opens October 15 Early Action deadline (application submitted and file complete) December 1 Early Action decisions released January 2 Regular Decision deadline (application submitted and file complete) March 1 Regular Decision decisions released May 1 Final date to apply Spring Semester Enrollment Date Event December 15 Application deadline *Some students may receive their admissions decision earlier than February 15. How to Apply to Clemson Review important dates and deadlines. Complete the application. Submit your application through the Clemson Application, Coalition Application or the Common Application. No preference is given to any application in the admission review process. Pay the application fee. There is a $70 application fee. Clemson accepts all major credit cards. If you cannot afford to pay the application fee, please fill out the financial sections of the application completely. This information will determine if you meet the level of need we can approve by policy for a fee waiver. If you have other hardships concerning the application fee, please reach out to the counselor for your state. Request your test scores be sent from The College Board or ACT. (optional for 2022-2023 academic year) Clemson only accepts official test scores sent by the testing agency. Clemson superscores both the SAT and ACT. Clemson’s institutional code for the SAT is 5111. Clemson’s institutional code for the ACT is 3842. Submit your Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR). Clemson University requires first-year applicants to self-report their high school transcripts. Students who are admitted to Clemson will be required to send official transcripts prior to enrollment. Learn more about how to complete your Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR). Are You a Tiger? These Are the Qualities We Look For. Clemson Tigers are hungry for academic challenges. One of the clearest indicators of your fit at Clemson is your academic performance in high school. We examine your GPA, class rank and the rigor of the classes you took to gauge your ability to rise to academic challenges. Most of our applicants have competitive GPAs and present transcripts with college preparatory, honors and AP coursework based on what is offered by their high school. All applicants for first-year admission should have completed the following courses: Recommended High School Curriculum Course Type Credits English 4 credits Mathematics 3 credits Laboratory Science 3 credits Foreign Language 3 credits* Social Sciences 3 credits Other 2 credits Physical Education/ROTC 1 credit Fine Arts 1 credit *Students who have completed fewer than three credits of the same foreign language are encouraged to apply. Select majors may have additional requirements. Does Clemson have a preference for AP, IB or dual-enrollment courses? AP, IB and dual enrollment offerings vary widely from school to school, so we look at your coursework in the context of what was offered at your high school. Future Clemson Tigers shine by accepting the challenge when AP, IB or dual enrollment classes are offered in high school. Visit Transfer Course Equivalency to gauge how many of your AP, IB and dual-enrollment courses translate to Clemson credit, or view the IB Credit Chart and AP Credit Chart to learn more. How does Clemson evaluate standardized test scores (SAT or ACT)? For the 2022 admissions cycle, Clemson has adopted a test-optional policy. Applicants are not required to submit a standardized test score to be considered for admission to Clemson for the 2022-2023 academic year. If a student chooses that test scores should be used, the scores must be submitted electronically by the respective testing agency. We will automatically update your application file with any new test scores we receive by our application deadlines. Clemson does not require the SAT or ACT essay. Clemson University super-scores both the SAT and the ACT. For the SAT, this means that the overall total SAT score will then be derived by taking the highest of the evidence-based reading and writing/math scores. According to The ACT, superscoring at Clemson means that we “consider a student’s highest ACT section (or subtest) scores regardless of test date. The super composite ACT score is calculated as the average of the best ACT English, Reading, Math, and Science subject scores and is used as one of multiple factors in admission and financial aid.” Beginning in September 2020, students who want test scores used are encouraged to send Clemson their ACT test scores utilizing the Superscore reporting option. You can view our First-Year Student Profile to learn more about test score ranges for admitted students. What role does your choice of major play? Choice of major and residency play an important part in the evaluation process. Because some majors attract large numbers of applicants or have limited classroom space, admission requirements may vary. In addition, as a public institution, we give South Carolina residents priority in the evaluation process. Students are encouraged to select two different intended majors. If you are not admissible in your first choice, we automatically consider your second. Selecting the same major twice is not recommended. Special Major Considerations An audition is required for students interested in pursuing music or theatre concentrations. For more information, visit the Performing Arts Department. Clemson Tigers are engaged in their communities. Many people have hobbies and interests. Clemson Tigers have passions and service mindsets that guide them to leadership roles in clubs, organizations, sports teams, volunteer activities, the arts, academic clubs and part-time jobs. Let us know about how you led your team to a championship win, the research you’ve conducted or the job you’ve excelled in while maintaining an excellent GPA. Clemson Tigers come from a variety of backgrounds. We are looking for students who bring varied experiences, knowledge and talents to Clemson. For this reason, diversity, legacy status and first-generation status are considered when reviewing applications. We understand that not everyone has the same opportunities. When reviewing applications, your coursework, activities and curriculum are examined in the context of what is offered in your high school. Clemson Tigers have unique stories to tell. We want to hear about the skills, experiences, challenges and triumphs that have shaped you. Upload an optional Personal Statement with your application to let us know if there are specific circumstances that impacted your academic performance for a specific period of time or in a particular class. We want to hear your story. After You Apply Here’s what you need to do after submitting your application. We will provide updates on the status of your application via email, but you can also view your application status and updates by visiting your Applicant Portal. When you are accessing the Applicant Portal for the first time, please reference your email for log-in instructions. Submit your Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Clemson University requires first-year applicants to self-report their high school transcripts. Students who are admitted to Clemson will be required to send official transcripts prior to enrollment. After submitting your application, a link to the SRAR system will be available in your Applicant Portal. Learn more about how to complete your Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Submit Standardized Test Scores (Optional) For the 2022 admissions cycle, Clemson has adopted a test-optional policy. Applicants are not required to submit a standardized test score to be considered for admission to Clemson for the 2022-2023 academic year. However, if you would like your scores to be reviewed, please request that they be sent directly from the testing agency and allow seven to 10 business days for the receipt of test scores to be added to your application file. Complete the FAFSA The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is available on October 1. The amount of need-related aid for which you are eligible is determined by the information you supply annually on the FAFSA. To be considered for need-based scholarships, applicants must also submit the FAFSA to the federal processor by January 2. Explore Financial Aid Options TThere is no separate application process for the majority of scholarships and aid at Clemson. Students who want to be considered for academic recruiting or diversity scholarships must apply for admission and complete their application file by January 2. Please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid for additional information. Students will receive an email notification about their financial aid award package in the spring. If additional aid is needed, there are federal and private loan options or a Tuition Payment Plan available. Need to edit your application? If you need to change your major, edit your personal information, change your application term or withdraw your application, please visit your Applicant Portal. Decision Types Incoming first-year students who apply by December 1 and submit all their supporting materials by December 31 will receive an admission decision by mid-February. Fall Admit Admitted first-years for Fall have until May 1 to choose whether or not to enroll. Students admitted to Fall may opt in to the Summer term if they choose. Clemson Summer Start Some students are admitted to the Summer term through the Clemson Summer Start program. Students have until May 1 to choose whether or not to enroll. Bridge to Clemson Students admitted to the Bridge to Clemson program will begin their Clemson experience by taking courses at Tri-County Technical College for their first year. Bridge students must express interest in the program by April 24 and have until May 1 to commit to Clemson. Some students will also be offered a place on the Bridge to Clemson waitlist. January Admit Students admitted to the Spring semester will enroll at Clemson in January. Students may choose to take courses at another institution during the Fall semester and enroll as a transfer student. If students do not take courses during the Fall semester, they will enroll as a first-year student. Waitlist A limited number of students will be offered a place on Clemson’s waitlist. Students should carefully review their decision letter for information on how to express interest in the waitlist. Deny We encourage students who receive this decision to review our transfer admission guidelines and consider transferring to Clemson in the future. Apply to Clemson as a First-Year Student Application Schedule and Deadlines Fall Semester Enrollment Spring Semester Enrollment How to Apply to Clemson What We Look For Academics Community Engagement Background and Opportunities Your Unique Story After You Apply After Submitting Your Application Decision Types Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson