Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School People Andrew G. Campbell Graduate School Skip to Navigation Andrew G. Campbell Andrew G. Campbell is the fifteenth dean of the Graduate School of Brown University. His term began on July 1, 2016. Dean Campbell is responsible for engaging and supporting more than 2,600 students enrolled in doctoral and master’s programs in more than 40 departments, centers and institutes, including the School of Engineering, the School of Public Health and the School of Professional Studies. A Professor of Medical Science at Brown University, his research focuses on microbial diseases, particularly infectious diseases in neglected populations and regions. He has taught and advised Brown undergraduate and graduate students since his 1994 faculty appointment and has served as director of the University’s pathobiology program and the Marine Biological Laboratory graduate program. He is currently principal investigator of two federal National Institutes of Health (NIH) grants and he leads the NIH-funded Initiative to Maximize Student Development in Brown’s Division of Biology and Medicine, a program found to have significantly improved recruiting and performance of underrepresented minority students in doctoral programs. Campbell was educated at York College, City University of New York (biology, 1981), earned his Ph.D. from the University of California, Los Angeles (biology, 1987) and completed postdoctoral training at UCLA and at the University of California, San Francisco. Campbell is the recipient of the National Science Foundation CAREER Award, American Foundations for AIDS Research Investigator Award, Harriet W. Sheridan Center Medal for Distinguished Contributions to Teaching and Learning at Brown University, and Brown’s Presidential Award for Excellence in Faculty Governance. His national engagement includes service to the NIH, the National Academy of Sciences and the National Science Foundation. He was a member of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute Meyerhoff Adaptation Program advisory board as well as several professional societies. He is an elected fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Society for Cell Biology. Campbell is also a member of the board of directors for the Coalition for Life Sciences, and Chair of the Board of Directors of the Council of Graduate Schools. At Brown University, his past service includes the role of chair of the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Advisory Board, vice chair of the University Resources Committee, and co-chair of the strategic planning committee for the current Brown Center for Students of Color. Home About the Graduate School People Dean's Message Directors of Graduate Study Governance: Graduate Council Presidential Fellows Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants