Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » Faculty and Campus Partners » Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Set Navigation title in component Honors Seminar Call for Proposals Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Are you a UC faculty or staff member creating an honors course in e-curriculum or ordering one in Catalyst? If so, the following important information will be helpful. Please don't hesitate to contact us with questions. General Information Honors courses are listed under the instructor’s home department. It is the responsibility of the instructor to ensure that the honors course is created in e-curriculum and that the department orders the class in Catalyst. Creating a new honors course will involve putting the course through the appropriate department/college approval processes. These vary by department/college. Please keep in mind that it is the instructor’s responsibility to follow the appropriate processes within the department/college to ensure that the course is approved by the department/college, created in e-curriculum, approved in e-curriculum, and can be ordered according to deadlines for the semester in which it will be taught. Creating a new honors course in e-Curriculum (C-1) Please keep the following in mind as the C-1 is created for the new course. Honors seminars are always listed as 2000 or 3000-level courses. (4000-level does not allow for the inclusion of BoK general education requirements.) Honors seminars are listed under the instructor's home department/college. Do not list it under HNRS. The honors status of the course will be indicated by choosing the honors attribute. The teaching college should be the instructor’s college, not the University Honors Program. Honors seminars are always three-credit hour courses. (More than three-credits makes it hard for students to fit into their schedules; less than three-credits doesn’t allow for the course to count as a BoK general education requirement.) The course title should not include the word “honors”; the “honors” attribute will allow for it to be designated as an honors course. All honors seminars must meet one or two BoK requirements (Breadth of Knowledge, general education). If the course does not meet one or two BoK requirements, students will not be able to enroll and it will be canceled. UHP students typically can only fit honors seminars into their schedules where they have openings for BoK courses. BoK requirements can be added under the “Gen Ed BoK” section. Check “yes” next to the “Is Foundation Course” box and the BoK options will appear. Under Gen Ed TouchPoints, most honors seminars can meet the mid-collegiate experience classification with the “experience” component. Under course attributes, the honors attribute should always be chosen. Under “Prerequisites”, there should be no prerequisites. Honors seminars are open to all UHP students, from all disciplines, at all levels. Honors seminars with study tour components should choose the grading scale that includes the IP (in progress) option. If the travel occurs at the end of the term, the faculty can assign IP grades when grades are due. Then, upon return, the letter grades earned can be assigned. This prevents financial aid and other problems from occurring (issues can arise with NG or I grades). Ordering the course in Catalyst The department through which the course is listed is responsible for ordering the class for the semester in which it will be offered. “Ordering” a class means entering it into Universis for the term in which it will be offered so that it appears on OneStop. Honors courses should be scheduled during standard class meeting times. The faculty member and his/her department, in consultation with the UHP, will determine the scheduling of the course. 3-credit hour classes should meet MWF for 55 minutes each session, TH for 80 minutes each session, or once a week for 170 minutes per session, following standard class meeting times. Please follow standard class meeting times. If you do not, enrollment may be negatively impacted. Please set the enrollment limit within the 20-25 student range whenever possible. IMPORTANT: The honors attribute must be connected to the course when it is ordered. This is done under "Maintain Classes" on the "Basic Data" tab. On the bottom of that tab, there is a section for "Class Attributes". Click the + sign to the right to add a row. In that new row, click on the magnifying glass under the "Course Attributes" column. Select "UC Transcripted Attributes". Then, click on the magnifying glass under the "Course Attribute Value" column. Select the "Honors" attribute. Click save on the lower left. IMPORTANT: The restriction that limits enrollment to UHP students only must be placed on the class section when ordered. The code is 008633 and you enter that on the Adjust Class Associations tab in Catalyst. Most honors seminars are the only section of the course offered during that term. If there are multiple sections of the course offered that term and all are not honors (ENGL2089, for example), the honors section(s) of the class must be given a different Associated Class number. That can be done under Maintain Schedule of Classes. Then, the restriction can be added to the honors section(s). Requests for special rooms should be submitted directly to Classroom Scheduling by the department through which the course is offered. The course must be ordered well before registration begins. If a course is not ordered at least four weeks before registration begins, enrollment could be negatively impacted. Questions? Contact Debbie Brawn at debbie.brawn@uc.edu or 556-6226 or Tricia Yee at tricia.yee@uc.edu or 556-6236. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top