Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW Group Visits College Fairs Admission Events Plan Your Visit Visit the University of Wyoming Tour Campus — From Anywhere. The University of Wyoming is nestled in the heart of Laramie. Our beautiful campus is settled among hundreds of mature spruce trees and granite boulders dotted with updated facilities that have preserved the charm of when UW started in 1886. We offer in-person campus tours along with two virtual options so you can get to know campus from anywhere in the world. Be sure to check out our complete dorm room video tours to see what residence life is like at UW! In-person tours are available Monday - Friday most weeks. RESERVE A TIME Connect one-on-one with an Admissions Counselor to learn more about UW & get your questions answered. MAKE AN APPOINTMENT Our virtual tour features UW's amazing facilities from the comfort of your home. START MY TOUR A Look at Campus in 7 Minutes Short on time? In just 7 minutes, you can see all that UW has to offer with the best campus tour video you’ll ever find. Check it out! Bring a Group to Campus We offer group visits for high schools or other parties interested in bringing multiple students to campus at one time. LEARN MORE #1 Small College Town Small Town, Big Experiences! The UW campus is the center of Laramie, Wyoming where students can enjoy one of the most beautiful campuses in the country. With a population of around 32,000 throughout the academic year, students can connect with other students with similar interests without feeling the pressures of big city life. In fact, we were voted #1 on the list of 50 Best Small College Towns in America by College Value Online! Residence Hall Video Tours Campus offers six residence halls to incoming first-year students along with our campus apartments for students sophomore and up. Most of our dorm rooms are double-occupancy and are nestled close to the Washakie Dining Center and classroom buildings. Students have the option of requesting a roommate or you will be matched with one using our roommate quiz! DOUBLE ROOM SINGLE ROOM SUITE ROOM Unique Student Housing Options Additionally, we offer housing options designed specifically for our students who share similar interests and backgrounds. The Tobin House is designed exclusively for our first-generation students - meaning they are the first in their family to attend college. The UW Honors House is a beautiful tutor-style building where select Honors College students may apply to live while in the program. TOBIN HOUSE HONORS HOUSE Interested in Fraternity & Sorority Life? Over 500 students take part in dozens of Fraternity & Sorority Life organizations on campus. Recruitment for the chapters begins each fall and housing options typically become available in a student’s second year. More Resources INTERACTIVE & PRINTABLE CAMPUS MAPS The University of Wyoming has dozens of high-tech facilities, performance and athletic centers and so much more. If you want to explore specific parts of campus, check out our interactive map along with some easy downloads so you can get the most out of your visit to UW. VIEW MAPS Over 200 Areas of Study Our undergraduate and graduate degrees are designed to give students close interaction with faculty in our incredible facilities, and even outside in the vast open spaces of Wyoming. Many programs also have options to study abroad and conduct undergraduate research! FIND A PROGRAM We're Eager to Help Contact Us UW Campus Visitor Center Wyoming Union | 1000 E. University Avenue Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-4075 E-mail: VisitUW@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility