Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Areas Student Orgs Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take the Next Step In Your Career Earn a Grad Certificate in Augmentative and Alternative Communication Participate in a Student-Run Conference The Annual Mid-South Conference of Communicative Disorders State-of-the-Art Facilities Experience hands on learning at the Memphis Speech & Hearing Center located within the UofM Community Health Building Participate in Research That Can Change Lives Research in the School focuses on hearing, speech and language PreviousNext Take Action Apply Now Support the School Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Nationally Ranked # 20 U.S. News and World Report Audiology - Graduate View All Rankings Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Helping people communicate. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Have you ever wondered what it would be like not to be able to communicate your thoughts, feelings, or ideas? Communication is something many of us take for granted, but for the millions of individuals who have difficulty hearing, or those who have trouble speaking because they stutter or they have had a stroke, communication is not so simple. The University of Memphis School of Communication Sciences and Disorders is nationally recognized for its academic, research, and clinical education programs for educating future audiologists, speech-language pathologists, and speech, language, or hearing scientists interested in helping individuals with such communication disorders. The School offers a graduate-only curriculum leading to the AuD degree with a major in Audiology, the MA degree with a major in Speech-Language Pathology and the PhD degree with a major in Communication Sciences and Disorders with concentrations in Hearing Sciences and Disorders or Speech-Language Sciences and Disorders. The School has been consistently ranked among the best graduate programs by U.S. News and World Report every year since 1998. Explore our Programs > We recently filmed a video tour of our School and associated clinic! <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The University of Memphis School of Communication Sciences and Disorders is actively recruiting new PhD Students! We are hiring! The University of Memphis School of Communication Sciences and Disorders is now accepting applications for a Speech Language Pathology Clinic Director. For more information and to apply, please visit https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/29966 Take a peek inside the Community Health Building and our anechoic chamber in an interactive tour of campus. Memphis Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/2/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.