Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid Graduate Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Payment Information Contact Us Financial Aid Advising Team Financial Aid Advisors are available via email, by phone (713-743-1010, option #5), and by virtual or in-person advising appointments (schedule via the Navigate app) to help you with questions about your financial aid process. If you do not have a Cougarnet account, you can call us to make an appointment. Students may request assistance from any advisor by clicking on the Advisor's name to send an email. Virtual Advising Students with Cougarnet accounts may choose between two convenient methods of virtual advising for their financial aid questions: schedule an appointment in advance with a specific advisor or queue online for a drop-in advising session during specific hours. Students can schedule an appointment in EAB Navigate, accessible via their AccessUH log-in page. Virtual Drop-In Advising Hours Virtual drop-in advising is available on Mondays and Fridays from 2 - 4:30 p.m, and on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays from 9 - 11 a.m. and 2 - 4:30 p.m. For drop-in advising, click on the blue button (Drop-In Online) during advising hours to join our queue. When a financial aid advisor is ready to assist you, you will receive an email with a link to join the meeting via Microsoft Teams. If you do not see the blue button to join the queue, we are at our capacity for drop-in appointments. You may wait until the queue allows for additional appointments or check back later. Learn more about scheduling virtual appointments and what to expect Here is the list of our Financial Aid Advising Team: Gwendolyn Richmond Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Appeals Keila Carlos Hablo español Norine Mattox Toni Cedillo Hablo español/ASL Certified Martha Hollas Hablo español Shanice Jones Scott Parker All Optometry and Pharmacy Students Carla Martinez All Law Students Karina Galvan All MBA Students Representatives are also available to assist you on the phones Monday through Thursday from 8 a.m. – 5 p.m., and Friday from 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Please feel free to call a financial aid representative at (713) 743-1010, option 5. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies