Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps About About Print FRES Overview Facilities and Real Estate Services provides the expertise, business process, policies and standards required to plan, design, construct, operate, maintain and renew the physical assets of the University. In addition, our Division is responsible for the strategic planning, management and operation of non-academic University property, and collaborating with the neighborhood to create a safe, diverse and economically vibrant destination. We maintain 218 buildings on a campus of 299 acres, excluding the Health System, New Bolton Center and Morris Arboretum. Contact Information Mailing Address 3101 Walnut Street Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Phone Reception 215-898-5706 Operations & Maintenance customer service inquiries » Directions to our Office » Mission Get an overview of the Division, our mission and vision statements. Organizational Chart Download our organizational chart. Departments Descriptions of each of our five departments in Facilities and Real Estate Services. Campus History Learn about the history of our campus. Campus Plan Penn Connects 2.0 then upped our investment in Penn's historic West Philadelphia campus, while boldly creating a new innovation ecosystem exemplified by the exciting new Pennovation Works. With the opening of the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement in D.C. and the Penn Wharton China Center in Beijing, Penn’s leadership in global affairs now extends beyond our Philadelphia campus to the capitals of two major nations. Divisional Overview Get quick facts about Facilities and Real Estate Services. Vendor Information Information on contractor pre-qualification and contract processes. Directions to FRES Walking and Driving directions to Facilities & Real Estate Services located at 3101 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104 About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Info for: Penn Community Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage