Skip to main content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Alumni Access and Resources The library provides Dartmouth alumni special access to certain library resources. Digital Library for Alumni Off-campus access to many of the library databases. Your NetID is required, but a library card is not. Library Catalog Browsing Alumni may browse the catalog, but to check out books, you need a library card. Alumni only have access to journals and databases in the Digital Library for Alumni. Alumni Catalog Login Alumni can log into the catalog to renew items if they have been issued a library card. Alumni Borrowing Privileges (PDF) Details on all library services alumni can access. Other Programs Friends of the Dartmouth College Library Want to stay involved with the us? Learn about this exciting series of programs and events, and consider making your gift to join the Friends of the Library program. Alumni Memorial Book Fund (PDF) For more than 70 years, classes of Dartmouth alumni have honored deceased classmates through this special book purchasing program. The Library carefully selects the memorial volumes and creates a special bookplate bearing the name of the classmate being memorialized. Since its inception, over 55 classes have participated, and over 12,800 books have been added to the library collection. Visiting Us On Campus Orozco Mural Experience our greatest treasure, the mural by artist José Clemente Orozco. Visit or take a tour! Exhibits See many of our exhibits that are open to the public. Book Arts Workshop Join us and learn the historic craft of letterpress printing and hand bookbinding. Tower Room On a sunny day or a snowy evening, the Tower Room offers inspiring views. Baker Library Bell Tower Tours See things from a different perspective at one of the highest points on campus. Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Borrowing & Requesting Tech Loans Alumni Access and Resources Media Off-Campus Access Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy