Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics University of Notre Dame Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics Home Contact Search Menu Admissions Reach Higher The opportunity of a Notre Dame education attracts the brightest minds from around the world. It’s not just academic rigor that brings men and women from all walks of life to campus. The University of Notre Dame seeks individuals whose intellect is matched by their capacity and desire to make a meaningful contribution to the world. Our students are leaders in and out of the classroom who understand the benefits of a holistic education of mind, body, and spirit. They seek to ask enduring questions of the world, and of themselves. One Home Under the Dome University shows geographical diversity with campus banners Read story angle right Undergraduate Admissions Students seeking undergraduate admission are encouraged to use the Common Application. In addition, applicants are asked to submit a Notre Dame-specific writing supplement. Admission criteria cover a host of factors, from academic performance in the classroom and on standardized tests to extracurricular pursuits. Undergrad Admissions 2021 Enrolled Students Profile 31.5% U.S. students of color 26% first-generation or low socioeconomic background 12% international/outside of the U.S. 89% participated in community service Graduate Admissions The Graduate School believes Your Research Matters℠, and aims to recruit passionate, engaged students who will bring talent, integrity, and heart to a student population that is already vibrant and diverse. Requirements for admission to graduate programs at the University of Notre Dame vary by program. The Graduate School administers programs for the College of Arts and Letters, College of Engineering, College of Science, and Keough School of Global Affairs. Programs for the School of Architecture, Mendoza College of Business, and the Law School are administered separately. Applications are reviewed by committees within the respective colleges. Graduate School Law School Admissions Architecture Graduate Programs Mendoza College of Business Notre Dame Graduate School #2 in the nation for student Fulbright winners More than $6 million+ awarded to graduate students from foundations such as Ford, Mellon, NSF 97% of recent graduates report current job aligns with career goals More than 50 foreign nations hosting graduate students conducting on-site research Financial Aid A Notre Dame education is a valuable investment in the holistic individual—not just for their careers, but also for the person they become in mind, body, and spirit. The University shares that investment with its students: Notre Dame is one of fewer than 70 institutions in the country that is need-blind in admitting students and meets 100% of an undergraduate’s demonstrated financial need. The opportunities for assistance range from University-based scholarships to Notre Dame alumni club scholarships and student employment, in addition to University-subsidized loans. Graduate student aid is available mostly through tuition scholarships, assistantships, and fellowships. Financial Aid Within Reach We meet 100% of a student’s demonstrated need 70% of all students receive some sort of financial aid Almost 100% of students in the Graduate School receive full-tuition scholarships Quick Links Bookstore Employment Tour InsideND Academic Calendar University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning Notice of Non-Discrimination Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit