COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Wichita State entrepreneurs win Women for Women award May 9, 2022 — Five Wichita State University women were honored with the Women for Women Innovation Award for spring 2022. The Women for Women's Innovation Fund is awarded to Wichita State University students to support innovative ideas that show promise of commercialization. Home for digital transformation rising on Innovation Campus May 6, 2022 — The steel columns and beams rising on the east edge of the Innovation Campus will soon provide a physical centerpiece for the ongoing work of digital transformation at Wichita State University. The National Institute for Research and Digital Transformation will occupy the building at 18th Street and Oliver by spring 2023. Meet a Shocker: Nerea Makoli Quiros May 10, 2022 - Nerea Makoli Quiros encourages students to confidently ask for help from professors and classmates. Openness to new people and new experiences, she said, is a valuable part of college.Nerea is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Pamela and Alex Ammar honored with Fairmount Founders' Award their support of WSU May 6, 2022 — Pamela Clancy Ammar and Alex Ammar were named recipients of the 2022 Fairmount Founders’ Award at the annual Fairmount Society dinner held on May 5 at Mark Arts. The WSU Foundation gives the award out annually to recognize those who provide outstanding service and generosity to Wichita State University. Meet a Shocker: Kaitlyn Hemberger May 5, 2022 — Kaitlyn Hemberger is one of the first two students at Wichita State to earn a Bachelor of Arts in Applied Linguistics. Kaitlyn is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about their time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Hannah Johnson May 5, 2022 – Hannah, from Augusta, Kansas, will graduate in spring 2022 with a Bachelor of Fine Arts in Graphic Design She chose to attend Wichita State because of how Wichita State helps students find internships and hands-on learning experiences. Meet a Shocker: Joshua Iron Wing May 5, 2022 — Joshua Iron Wing is an adult learner who will graduate in spring 2022. He says she chose Wichita State because of the reputation of the W. Frank Barton School of Business. Meet a Shocker: Joshua Watts May 5, 2022 — Joshua Watts came to Wichita State from Oklahoma City because he was impressed with the university’s facilities and amenities. Meet a Shocker: Truc Nguyen May 5, 2022 — Truc Nguyen took full advantage of the professional and personal opportunities available to her during her time at Wichita State University. Meet a Shocker: Kaitlyn Cowen May 5, 2022 — Kaitlyn Cowen will graduate in spring 2022. She chose to attend Wichita State because of its access and affordability. Meet a Shocker: Maria Romero Rodriguez May 3, 2022 — Maria Romero Rodriguez came to Wichita State University from Madrid, Spain to study and compete in the pentathlon and heptathlon for the track and field team. She will graduate in May and compete at Cessna Stadium in the American Athletic Conference Outdoor Championships with her family in attendance. Meet a Shocker: Chadrack Kamba Tshimanga May 3, 2022 — The strength of Wichita State University's engineering program brought Chadrack Kamba Tshimanga to Kansas from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Meet a Shocker: Camille Brashears May 3, 2022 — Camille Brashear is an adult learner who will graduate in spring 2022. She says she chose to continue her education at Wichita State not only because it was affordable, but also because of the local pride surrounding WSU. Meet a Shocker: Tiffany Johnson May 5, 2022 — Tiffany will graduate in spring 2022. She chose to attend Wichita State because of Wichita State’s access and affordability. She is currently applying for graduate school. Meet a Shocker: Samantha Rowan May 2, 2022 — Samantha Rowan is graduate and a first-generation student. She plans to work with elderly after she graduates. Samantha is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. First Previous 1 2 3 4 5 ... Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©