Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell School of Nursing and Health Studies NHS Health Studies RN to BSN Master of Nursing Make a Gift UW Bothell Home School of Nursing & Health Studies School of Nursing & Health Studies About Us School Leadership Mission Statement Accreditation Diversity Statement Information Literacy Competency Standards for Nursing Employment Opportunities Promotion and Tenure Guidelines School Meetings Graduating Class News School Events Information Sessions Student Resources Faculty & Staff Affiliate Faculty Emeritus Faculty Community Partners Advisory Board Curricular and Educational Policies Board Behavioral Health Alumni Sigma Theta Tau International Honor Society of Nursing Make a Gift Excellence Fund Support our growth Student Support Fund Contact Us University of Washington Bothell School of Nursing & Health Studies Preparing students to advance social justice, health & their nursing practice Bachelor of Arts Health Studies Gain the knowledge and skills to turn your passion of improving the health of individuals and communities, both locally and abroad into action. Learn more. RN-to-BSN Through our one-year Bachelor of Science in Nursing program, you can pursue your passion, learn with confidence, and advance your nursing practice and career. Learn more. Master of Nursing Develop the advanced knowledge and skills required for master's level practice and reimagine your career. Learn more. Behavioral Health Online Behavioral Health Training Program. Learn more. Minors Health Studies Health Education & Promotion Global Health Apply today! Graduate Admission Undergrad Admission SNHS Brochure UW School of Nursing & Health Studies Receives Top Ranking From US News and World Report The U.S. News & World Report ranked University of Washington Bothell's Master of Nursing program No. 1 among public schools that offer a master’s degree. Read more about the report. The U.S. News & World Report ranked University of Washington Bothell's Bachelor of Science in Nursing program No. 1 among public schools that offer a Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree. Read more about the report. Info sessions Select display (list or summary) Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Events calendar powered by Trumba Additional programs Interested in a Masters in Clinical Informatics, an Advanced Nurse Practitioner DNP, or a PhD in Nursing? The School of Nursing at UW Seattle offers these programs! Live in the South Puget Sound and looking for an RN-BSN or MN program? The Nursing and Healthcare Leadership Program at UW Tacoma offers these programs! Share your story with us! News 05/26/2022 Marisol Bejarano, HS '20 Marisol Bejarano, Health Studies '20, tells us a little about her experiences at UWB and what she's been doing since graduating. Read more 05/26/2022 Get to know Jenny Phan, HS Student Health Studies student Jenny Phan tells us about her experiences at UWB and how her coursework helped her find her passion for health administration. Read more 05/26/2022 Meet Mindy Vu! Get to know Health Studies student Mindy Vu! Mindy shared some of her experiences at UWB and her plans for the future. Read more See all news University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington, Bothell School of Nursing & Health Studies Box 358532 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5376 Fax: 425.352.3237 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbnhs@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us