Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Geography and Urban Studies PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Geography and Urban Studies PhD Apply Request More Info Geography and Urban Studies PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Geography and Urban Studies PhD Build the analytical foundation and specialized skills to address real-world problems with the Doctor of Philosophy in Geography and Urban Studies in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. In this 51-credit doctoral degree program, you will focus on geographic approaches to the study of urban and environmental processes and conditions in U.S. and international settings. Our program emphasizes the following themes. Geographic methods, including spatial analysis, remote sensing and qualitative research. Globalization, including capital and labor flows, culture, citizenship, identity, and welfare state restructuring. Social justice, focusing on inequalities across economics, gender and race. Sustainability, emphasizing ecology, environmental justice and land use. You will employ various theoretical approaches to investigate patterns and processes around the world. Acquire the methodological tools necessary to understand and address the economic, environmental, political and social challenges society faces today. Graduate faculty expertise includes black geographies, critical feminist geography, food systems, geographic information science, health geography, political ecology, sustainability science, urban studies and urban analytics. Faculty networks with academic institutions, community organizations, nongovernmental organizations and public agencies, as well as social movements in Philadelphia and beyond, providing opportunities to actively engage in research. Graduates are prepared to conduct advanced scholarly research to prepare for careers in academia or professional research, or for professional work in nongovernment organizations, private firms and think tanks that focus on critical issues in the field. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum Students have seven years to complete the program on a full- or part-time basis with classes offered after 4:30 p.m. The 51-credit Geography and Urban Studies PhD curriculum includes core coursework, four methodology courses, seven electives, a qualifying exam and a dissertation demonstrating original research that makes a valuable contribution to the field of Geography and Urban Studies. Core courses include the following. Critical Issues in Globalization, Sustainability, and Social Justice Geographic Inquiry History and Theory of Urban Studies Public Policy for Urban Regions Research Design Statistics for Urban Spatial Analysis Learn more about the Geography and Urban Studies PhD curriculum. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Hamil Pearsall is the graduate chairperson for the Geography and Urban Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-3074 Email: hamil.pearsall@temple.edu Program Contact For questions regarding the Geography and Urban Studies PhD, contact the following staff member. Liz Janczewski is the student services coordinator in the College of Liberal Arts. Phone: 215-204-3386 Email: liz.janczewski@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Geography and Urban Studies Department. Melissa Gilbert is the chair. Phone: 215-204-5482 Email: mgilbert@temple.edu Hamil Pearsall is the graduate chair. Phone: 215-204-3074 Email: hamil.pearsall@temple.edu Lee Hachadoorian is the director. Phone: 215-204-3331 Email: lee.hachadoorian@temple.edu Vicki Giammarco is the senior manager of administration. Phone: 215-204-7692 Email: vicki.giammarco@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Geography and Urban Studies PhD coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The Association of American Geographers is a nonprofit scientific and educational society aimed at advancing the understanding, study and importance of geography and related fields and is open to graduate and PhD students. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete graduate coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-GUS-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Geography and Urban Studies PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info