Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short About Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Staff Contact Information For general office inquiries, please call the main line at 832-842-0550. For all other inquiries, please contact Cindy Mejia, Chief of Staff. Provost Paula Myrick Short Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, University of Houston System Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost, University of Houston Paula Myrick Short is the Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs for the University of Houston System, and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost at the University of Houston. Since her appointment in June 2013, she has established the UH Graduate School, the Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy for Department Chairs, the Foundations of Excellence initiative, and Houston GPS as well as implemented student success initiatives such as UH in 4, Provost Summer Read, Passport for Coogs, and Cub Camp. Prior to joining UH, Dr. Short served 12 years as Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs for the Tennessee Board of Regents, the sixth-largest governing board system of higher education in the United States, annually serving more than 200,000 students. In Tennessee, she served as a legislative-appointed Board member of the Tennessee Technology Development Corporation, as a Board member of the Life Sciences Institute- Tennessee Emerging Technologies, and as an Academic Auditor for the Australian Universities Quality Agency. In her role as Senior Vice Chancellor for the University of Houston System, Dr. Short is responsible for the academic quality and accreditation of all four UH system institutions: UH, UH – Downtown, UH – Clear Lake, and UH – Victoria. She chairs the UH System Provost Council and has served two terms on the Funding Formula Committee of the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. As Senior Vice President and Provost of the University of Houston, Dr. Short is responsible for faculty development, strategic enrollment planning, undergraduate student success, graduate education, education innovation and technology, global strategies and partnerships, and UH Arts. She recently led the development of two new colleges at UH, the Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts and the Hobby School for Public Affairs, as well as co-founded the Data Science Institute with Vice President for Research and Technology Transfer, Amr Elnashai. At UH, the 18 deans report to her including Dean of University Libraries. Additionally, Dr. Short is the Director of the Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success, funded by a $3.3 million grant from the National Science Foundation. Under Dr. Short’s leadership, the Center is addressing gender equity and diversity issues related to moving more women and women of color forward with careers in science, technology, engineering, and math. Nationally, Dr. Short has served as president of two professional associations. In 2013, Provost Short was honored with the Master Professor Award by the University Council for Educational Administration recognizing her record of promoting educational innovation in the classroom. In 2009, she was recipient of the Paul A. Elsner International Excellence in Leadership Award in recognition of her multiple accomplishments in improving higher education. Having published over 105 journal articles, books, book chapters, and technical reports; she also has been recognized for her research contributions with the Jack A. Culbertson Award, given by the University Council for Educational Administration. In 2014, she was named one of the 50 most influential women in Houston. Dr. Short has served as a tenured faculty member at Auburn University, The Pennsylvania State University, the University of Missouri – Columbia, and currently is tenured Distinguished Professor of Education at UH’s College of Education. Dr. Short received her Ph.D. in Administration in the Department of Organizational Development and Institutional Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies