Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Center for Athletic Academic Services About Services Staff Awards Resources Intern/GA Experience PAWS Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Services to Students Go Tigers Go Become a fan of our page and follow us to receive updates and helpful information! InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Center for Athletic Academic Services CAAS Services Surrounding Tiger athletes with the best people and finest services. Services Tailored for Student-Athletes Athletic Academic Counselors in the Center for Athletic Academic Services serve student-athletes in a variety of capacities on a daily basis throughout the year. Athletic Academic Counselors work diligently to ensure that all student-athletes receive the assistance necessary to succeed in the classroom. The responsibilities of Athletic Academic Counselors include, but are not limited to: Academic Advising Academic Awards Academic Counseling Academic Mentoring Academic Monitoring ACAD 1100 Career Development Disability Services Exhausted Eligibility Objective Study Hall Personal Counseling Orientation Travel Letters Tutoring Program Academic Advising Each semester, student-athletes meet with their assigned Athletic Academic Counselor to discuss major selection and degree completion as well as schedule courses for the upcoming semester. This process requires a partnership between the counselor and the student-athlete to ensure student-athletes continually make timely progress toward graduation. Academic Awards Athletic Academic Counselors nominate student-athletes on their respective teams for a variety of academic awards, including those sponsored by The American Athletic Conference. In addition, the Center for Athletic Academic Services recognizes student-athletes on a monthly and semester basis for a variety of awards. For specific information on these awards, please see Academic Awards. Academic Counseling Through weekly, bi-weekly or daily meetings, Athletic Academic Counselors provide academic counseling to student-athletes. Academic counseling includes, but is not limited to, discussion of academic progress (including recent assignments, projects, and exams), upcoming academic work, evaluation of study skills, and preparedness for travel. Counselors also assist in helping new student-athletes make the transition from high school to college while adjusting to and handling the demands of a stressful academic and athletic schedule. Back to Top Academic Mentoring Athletic Academic Counselors serve as academic mentors for student-athletes regarding the development of academic skills necessary for classroom success. At times, trained upper class students and graduate students may also serve as academic mentors for specific student-athletes. Academic mentors provide general academic guidance for at-risk student-athletes and work primarily on a one-on-one basis. Academic Monitoring Through various forms of communication with professors, including telephone calls, emails, and grade reports, Athletic Academic Counselors monitor the grades and academic progress of student-athletes on their respective teams. ACAD 1100 All first-year students at the University of Memphis have the opportunity to take the course, ACAD 1100: Academic Strategies. Freshmen student-athletes take ACAD 1100 during their first semester at Memphis. The Director, Associate Director, and Athletic Academic Counselors teach sections of this course specifically for student-athletes. The course assists student-athletes in making the transition to college-level academics and learning about campus resources. Back to Top Career Development Athletic Academic Counselors assist student-athletes in preparing for future careers. Through academic advising, weekly meetings, general conversations, and our PAWS program, counselors help student-athletes match desired careers with majors and refer student-athletes to other campus resources such as Career and Employment Services to assist in preparing for life after college. For specific information, please see the Student-Athlete Development (PAWS) web page or Career Services web page. Disability Services Athletic Academic Counselors work closely with Disability Resources for Students (located in 110 Wilder Tower) to coordinate academic programs for those student-athletes who may need this additional support. Exhausted Eligibility Athletic Academic Counselors assist former student-athletes who return to the University of Memphis in order to assist them with degree completion and progress toward graduation. Back to Top Objective Study Hall Student-athletes, at certain points in their academic careers, are required to participate in the study hall program. Athletic Academic Counselors proactively monitor student-athletes in the study hall program. Study hall is designed to provide student-athletes with an avenue to study in a learning-centered environment. Study hall takes place in the center where student-athletes can utilize computers, study carrels, and tutoring services if necessary. Orientation The entire staff in the Center for Athletic Academic Services implements an Orientation program for all incoming freshmen and transfer student-athletes. Orientation is held prior to the beginning of classes in August and January. Orientation sessions assist student-athletes in preparing for the upcoming semester, adjusting to the college environment, and learning about campus resources available to all students. Personal Counseling At times, Athletic Academic Counselors assist student-athletes in dealing with the daily stresses of life as a student-athlete. If necessary, counselors refer student-athletes to other campus resources if student-athletes need additional counseling services or assistance from other professionals on campus. Back to Top Travel Letters Athletic Academic Counselors ensure that student-athletes receive and provide professors with a travel letter each semester. A travel letter includes the dates and times of travel for the entire semester. Providing faculty with a travel letter at the beginning of the semester allows for each student-athlete to engage in a conversation with his or her professors about travel dates that may conflict with exams, assignments, or other course requirements. Travel letters assist student-athletes in developing reliable communication with faculty regarding one’s participation in athletics. Athletic Academic Counselors follow up with faculty as needed regarding student-athlete travel or other extenuating circumstances like illness or deaths in the family. Tutoring Program One of the Athletic Academic Counselors also serves a Tutor Coordinator for the Center of Athletic Academic Services. The tutoring program is extremely active in helping provide student-athletes with additional academic assistance as needed. Upper class students and graduate students serve as tutors in a variety of academic subjects ranging from English and Math to Spanish and Philosophy. Tutor sessions are held in conjunction with the study hall program in the academic center. Most often, student-athletes meet with tutors in one-on-one meetings, but at times, student-athletes may meet with tutors in small group settings. Tutor sessions serve as additional explanation of course material, not as a supplement for class attendance. We also have a new online tutoring program called SmartThinking that is available to student-athletes who may be interested in drop-in tutoring and live chat tutoring sessions. Additional Responsibilities of Athletic Academic Counselors: Meet with professors, advisors, or other campus personnel as necessary. Work with professors if problems arise with a student-athlete's academic performance. Report academic progress and study hall performance to coaches on a weekly or daily basis. Assist coaches in recruiting by meeting with prospective student-athletes and their families. Back to Top Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/1/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.