Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Student Housing Menu Search TTU Housing WHAT IS RED RAIDER EXPRESS PASS? Red Raider Express Pass is an opportunity for incoming students who are fully admitted to Texas Tech University to sign up for housing and select a residence hall and room prior to the official room selection launch date of Tuesday, December 7, 2021. HOW DOES RED RAIDER EXPRESS PASS WORK? Based on the date the student completes the first three Housing Sign-up steps, the student will be given an opportunity (at a later date but prior to 12/07/2021) to complete step four of the Housing Sign-up process to select their residence hall and room for the upcoming Fall 2022-Spring 2023 academic year. Information on the Housing Sign-up process and the date-specific information can be found below: HOUSING SIGN-UP PROCESS: STEP 1: Complete Fall 2022 - Spring 2023 Housing and Dining Application. STEP 2: Sign the Fall 2022 - Spring 2023 Contract. STEP 3: Pay required application fee and deposit(s). STEP 4: Select room and dining plan. STAGE 1 Students who complete Steps 1-3 of the Housing Sign-up process between the dates of October 5th through October 15th will have the opportunity to select their room and dining plan beginning Tuesday, November 16th at 9am. STEPS 1-3: October 5-15 | STEP 4: November 16th STAGE 2 Students who complete Steps 1-3 of the Housing Sign-up process between the dates of October 16th through October 31st will have the opportunity to select their room and dining plan beginning Friday, November 19th at 9am. STEPS 1-3: October 16-31 | STEP 4: November 19th STAGE 3 Students who complete Steps 1-3 of the Housing Sign-up process between the dates of November 1st through November 15th will have the opportunity to select their room and dining plan beginning Tuesday, November 23rd at 9am. STEPS 1-3: November 1-15 | STEP 4: November 23rd STAGE 4 Students who complete Steps 1-3 of the Housing Sign-up process between the dates of November 15th through November 30th will have the opportunity to select their room and dining plan beginning Wednesday, December 1st at 9am. STEPS 1-3: November 15-30 | STEP 4: December 1st What if I sign up after November 30th? All students who complete the first three steps of the housing process after November 30th will have the opportunity to select their room and dining plan on the official room select launch date on Tuesday, December 7, 2021. After December 7, 2021, any student who signs up for housing will automatically be able to complete steps 1-4 of the Housing Sign-up Process. What if I want a specific roommate? Red Raider Express Pass does not coordinate roommate selections. Red Raider Express Pass will be on a first-come, first-serve basis. But, if you have a specific roommate that has also been fully admitted to Texas Tech, you can encourage them to start the Red Raider Express Pass process at the same time. If one student completes Red Raider Express Pass on October 5th during Stage 1 and the second student completes Red Raider Express Pass on November 1st during Stage 2, you will not be guaranteed coordinated housing. So be sure and work closely with your future Red Raider roommates to coordinate your Red Raider Express Pass Sign-ups. What if I pick a room and then want to change it at a later date? Once you have secured a room (Step 4), you can log back in at any time to change rooms. What if the room or residence hall I want is not available when I go to pick a room? All room selection is based on a first-come, first-serve basis. Rooms in the more popular residence halls are limited. One of the advantages of Red Raider Express pass is that you have the option to pick a room before most students, which allows you to have more room options to select from! What if I want to cancel my contract? All cancellation requests must be submitted to University Student Housing in writing or submitted electronically (preferred method) by the student to housing@ttu.edu. Cancellations received based on the cancellation schedule listed below will result in the noted refunded amounts. Cancellation Date Initial Deposit Additional Deposit On or before May 1, 2022 $400 refundable $0 refundable if suite/apartment/pod style space is reserved After May 1, 2022 $0 refundable (no refunds) $0 refundable if suite/apartment/pod style space is reserved LATE CANCELLATIONS: Prior to occupancy, any individual who cancels their contract on or after August 1, 2022, will be subject to a cancellation fee based on the cancellation schedule listed below and their contract will be terminated. Cancellation Date Cancellation Fee Before August 1, 2022 $0 On or after August 1, 2022 through August 13, 2022 $500 On or After August 14, 2022 $1,000 Begin Housing Sign-up Process Begin Housing Sign-up Process University Student Housing Like University Student Housing on FacebookLike University Student Housing on Facebook Follow University Student Housing on twitterFollow University Student Housing on twitter Subscribe to University Student Housing on YouTubeSubscribe to University Student Housing on YouTube Follow University Student Housing on FlickrFollow University Student Housing on Flickr Follow University Student Housing on PinterestFollow University Student Housing on Pinterest Follow University Student Housing on InstagramFollow University Student Housing on Instagram Address Wiggins Complex, 3211 18th St., Box 41141, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-2661 | Fax: (806) 742-2696 Email housing@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityOct 11, 2021 3:34 PM University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Back Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Sign Up Information Back Sign up for Housing Contract Information Off Campus Eligibility Red Raider Express Pass Residence Hall Selection Guide Room Availability Report Prospective Students University Student Housing Prospective Students Back Residence Hall Information University Student Housing Prospective Students Residence Hall Information Back Residence Hall Selection Guide Virtual Brochure Off Campus Eligibility Flex Housing Move In/ Move Out Red Raider Express Pass Room Change Housing Rates University Student Housing Prospective Students Housing Rates Back Housing Rates Rate Calculator Deposit and Billing Information About TTU University Student Housing Prospective Students About TTU Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions All Student Organizations Student Recreation Current Residents University Student Housing Current Residents Back My Housing University Student Housing Current Residents My Housing Back Hall Addresses and Mailing information FixIT Maintenance Request View Roommate and Dining Plan Move In/ Move Out Holiday Break Information Room Change Hospitality Services University Student Housing Current Residents Hospitality Services Back University ID Change Dining Plan Get Involved University Student Housing Current Residents Get Involved Back Student Organizations Social Justice Advocates Residence Hall Association Events University Student Housing Current Residents Events Back Carol of Lights® Professing Excellence Safe Treat Tunnel of Awareness End of the Year Banquet MLK Celebration Student Services University Student Housing Current Residents Student Services Back Academic Improvement Plan Housing Scholarships Residential Tutoring About Us University Student Housing About Us Back Leadership Team University Student Housing About Us Leadership Team Back Staff Directory Housing Areas University Student Housing About Us Housing Areas Back Administration and Business Services Facilities Services Residence Life Work for Housing Services and Resources University Student Housing About Us Services and Resources Back Conference Services Marketing Request Form Solicitation Form IT Helpdesk Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index