Skip to main content Search Lab Users Lab Users Portal Main navigation Getting Started Highlights Education and Outreach Media Equipment About Us IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT Shutdown Deferred to Winter Break 2022-2023 Cornell NanoScale Facility - CNF The Cornell NanoScale Science and Technology Facility mission is to enable rapid advancements in science, engineering and technology at the nanoscale by providing efficient access to nanotechnology infrastructure and expertise. CNF operates as a flexible open user facility and is proud to be a member of the National Nanotechnology Coordinated Infrastructure (NNCI). Upcoming Events Past Events... @CornellCNF Tweets by @CornellCNF News and Announcements UPDATED 05/18/2022: COVID protocol update for External Users, Vendors and Visitors CNF Coronavirus Updates Shutdown Deferred to Winter Break 2022-2023 Extended Cleanroom Shutdown Schedule Etching the Future with CNF & Plasma-Therm Plasma-Therm Interviews Ron Olson and Vince Genova More News... Introduction and Overview Director's Welcome As Director of the Cornell NanoScale Science & Technology Facility (CNF), I would like to welcome you to our facility’s website. We are part of the NNCI network and one of the nation’s premier nanofabrication sites. Here you will find information about our many tools and techniques. We can do things that many other centers cannot. You will also find how to become a user of the facility. We do remote jobs and we have a community of contractors who can build things on order. Information is also provided about our outreach activities including our REU programs, our annual user’s meeting and our twice yearly short course. Teachers can request copies of our educational publication, Nanooze. We hope you become a member of our growing community of users. Sincerely, Christopher Ober Lester B. Knight Director This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. NNCI-2025233. Any opinions, findings, conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation. If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, Contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.