Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Division of Student Affairs Menu Resources and Services For Students For Parents and Families For Faculty and Staff Get Involved Leadership Events Greek Life Student Organizations Student Media Student Awards Programs Graduation Recognition Volunteer About Us Mission, Vision and Values Senior Leadership Team Staff Listing Committees and Taskforces Organizational Chart Department Listing Policies Programs and Initiatives Employment Opportunities Support Student Affairs Contact Us Messages from the VPSA New Staff and Staff Anniversaries Values Awards Need Help? Find Your Class Knowledge Base Dean of Students Important DOSA Contacts CARE Team On-Campus Resources Home Get Involved Student Media Student Media Temple University has a variety of student-run media. These outlets are excellent resources for up-to-date news about the campus community. Student media is also a major professional development resource for students entering media fields. Temple News The Temple News has been the paper of record for the Temple University community since it first printed as Temple University Weekly on Sept. 19, 1921. The award-winning student publication, editorially independent of Temple, now publishes every Tuesday. The Temple News distributes 5,000 printed copies, free of charge, to the university’s five primary locations in the Delaware Valley, including Main Campus, Center City, Health Sciences, Ambler, and the Tyler School of Art. The newsroom is located in Room 243 of the Howard Gittis Student Center. Templar Award-winning yearbook. Employs 15 managers and 30 writers. WHIP WHIP, an acronym that stands for We Have Infinite Potential, is Temple University’s student-run Internet radio station. It exists to provide students with the opportunity to learn about the radio profession and practice their craft in a studio on campus in Temple’s TECH Center. Whether you’re live on the air, in the studio producing a show or a commercial or out at a local business selling an advertisement, you’ll get hands-on radio experience in a deadline-driven enviroment. WHIP also gets increased visibility in a top-five media market as one of iHeartRadio’s top college radio stations. In an effort and commitment to teach and develop students at one of the world’s most diverse universities, WHIP’s varied broadcast lineup features everything from early-morning news and entertainment to sports and a number of musical genres. Leadership Events Greek Life Student Organizations Student Media Student Awards Programs Graduation Recognition Volunteer Temple University Division of Student Affairs 1802 N. Broad Street Suite 402 Philadelphia, PA 19122 Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.