Comparative Cultural Studies  - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Comparative Cultural Studies About Programs Anthropology Liberal Studies Religious Studies Minors Anthropology Religious Studies People Faculty CCS Department By-Laws Guidelines for Promotion and Tenure Annual Performance Review Policies APR Scoring Guidelines Staff Partners Full List of Partners Imagining America@UH Working Group Special Committee on Race & Social Justice News Events Scholarships Orton Scholarship in Religious Studies Lanier Scholarship in Biblical Studies Mladenka-Fowler Scholarship Support Us Comparative Cultural Studies News and Events CCS will host Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor, Ph.D. (Princeton) as a Scholar-in-Residence, April 25-29, 2022 CCS is proud to congratulate Dr. Rachel Afi Quinn, who has been promoted to Associate Professor with tenure (effective Sept. 1, 2021) CCS is delighted to welcome Dr. Debarati Sen as a new Associate Professor of Anthropology, starting in January 2021. Congratulations! Dr. Luca Oliva has accepted an offer as tenure-track Assistant Professor, effective Fall 2021 CCS welcomes Dr. Anneleise Azúa as Postdoctoral Researcher Religious Studies major Audrey Gale Hall presented her Honors Thesis research to the Southwest Commission on Religious Studies. Liberal Studies major Kennedy Foxwell was selected to present an academic paper to a student research conference Dr. Nicholas De Genova has been appointed to chair a Special Committee on Race and Social Justice in the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences. CCS sponsored the art installations “Hostile Terrain 94” AND “ Detention Nation” at The Blaffer Art Museum, April 17 – May 15, 2021 Culture & The Future of Food Studies Online panel discussion with Dr. Mireya Loza, Dr. Debarati Sen, and Dr. Monica Perales; April 14 (12:30-2:00; on Zoom) Rooted: A Discussion on Plants, Race, and Science Panel Discussion with Dr. Gabriela Soto LaVeaga, Dr. Jeannie Shinozuka and Dr. Anneleise Azúa; March 29, 2022 (12:00 - 1:30 p.m. on Zoom) “Who Owns the Bible? An Unauthorized Scholarly Tour of Washington D.C.'s Museum of the Bible” Religious Studies lecture event with Dr. Jill Hicks-Keeton March 31, 2022 (6:00 pm, Agnes Arnold Auditorium 2) Dr. Rachel Afi Quinn in Conversation with Dr. LeConté Dill Online BOOK LAUNCH for Dr. Rachel Afi Quinn’s new book, Being La Dominicana: Race and Identity in the Visual Culture of Santo Domingo. Featuring Dr. LeConté Dill (African American and African Studies, Michigan State University). Mapping the “Venezuelan” Crisis: Venezuela through the Looking Glass Online international symposium April 30 (2 - 6 p.m.) The Cultures of U.S. Empire — February 26, 2021, 3-5 p.m. The Politics of Migration and Border Control across the Americas during the Pandemic — February 5, 2021, 12-2 p.m. Congratulations! Dr. Christian Eberhart and Dr. Caryn Tamber-Rosenau, who were both honored as “50-in-5” Scholars for having achieved national or international recognition in their scholarly pursuits. Congratulations! Dr. Luca Oliva has been awarded the 2020 Ross M. Lence Award for Teaching Excellence. CCS faculty engage the protests for racial justice following the police murder of George Floyd. CCS researchers engage the COVID-19 pandemic. The undergraduate Anthropology program ranked #15 nationally on the 2020 Best Colleges list, according to the U.S. Department of Education's College Scorecard. CCS awarded $45,000 in scholarships during 2019-20, and $19,500 in 2020-21. Welcome to Comparative Cultural Studies The Department of Comparative Cultural Studies (CCS) at University of Houston is an interdisciplinary department offering degree programs in Anthropology (BA, BS, MA) Liberal Studies (BA, BS), Religious Studies (BA) as well as undergraduate minors in Anthropology and Religious Studies. Collaboration across these programs enhances the strengths of each and encourages cross-cultural learning and understanding. Students in CCS explore the historical and ongoing production of cultures and the ways in which cultural differences affect the political, social, economic and aesthetic relationships that shape human communities. CCS prepares students to understand and apply a comparative approach to cultural difference and change in a globalized world. Learn more... Department Programs Anthropology M.A. in Anthropology Liberal Studies Religious Studies Department Highlights Local Knowledge > Global Citizenship > Financial Assistance > University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies