Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering President's Staff Advisory Council Home About Members Events Staff Resources Get Involved Serving on SAC University Advisory Boards & Committees Volunteer Opportunities Site Navigation Home About Meeting Minutes & Summaries Bylaws Reports Members Subcommittees Previous Members Events Faculty in Focus Lunchtime Events Meet & Mingles BEARtalks & Brown Bag Lunches Staff First Reading Program Staff Resources Get Involved Serving on SAC University Advisory Boards & Committees Volunteer Opportunities Serving on SAC Do you want to be part of a great opportunity to learn new skills and be part of a great team of staff from across the University? Do you know someone who would benefit from a professional development opportunity and appreciate the chance to be involved in the Brown community? Are you willing and able to make the commitment? We are always looking for dynamic and vested individuals to join the team! Being a member of SAC is a significant time commitment. Meetings take place twice a month for two hours each and are held at different locations throughout the campus. We also hold networking/social events once or twice a month, some are after work hours and some are at lunchtime. Being a SAC member means you are willing to participate in events and support the Council's efforts to engage with staff in a multitude of ways. Eligibility Staff employees (non-bargaining unit) applying to be on SAC must complete at least one (1) full year of regular University employment prior to the start of his/her term and must serve in a regular position that is designated as 80% time or greater. Submitting Nominations or Applications Details Being a member of the President's Staff Advisory Council is a challenging opportunity for professional development. To be eligible for SAC, you must be a staff employee (non-bargaining unit) on the regular payroll, in a position that is designated at least 80% time or greater, having completed one full year of University service by the time your term starts. Members serve 2-year terms, attend up to 2 committee meetings each month (varies each month), and should participate in other projects or events. SAC is a great professional and personal development opportunity! Are you interested in applying for SAC? We will be accepting applications for the 2019-2020 term in October of 2018! Do you know someone you want to nominate who would be a great fit for SAC? Please click here to fill out the nomination form. We strongly encourage all interested staff members to discuss their interest in SAC with their supervisors before applying, as an important responsibility of membership is full participation. If you have questions about becoming a member of SAC, please let us know at sac@brown.edu. Get Involved Serving on SAC University Advisory Boards & Committees Volunteer Opportunities President's Staff Advisory Council President's Staff Advisory Council Brown University Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1000 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top