Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home Giving to GSAS Giving to GSAS Please make a gift to GSAS to support graduate education today. GSAS is committed to providing our students and faculty with every resource possible to perform groundbreaking work in their chosen fields. The GSAS Annual Fund provides flexible support for students enrolled at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. The fund comprises the Dean’s Discretionary Fund and the Annual Fund. It is spent down each year to support current graduate students, and is fundamental to the vibrancy of intellectual and student life at Columbia. The generosity of GSAS alumni has always been vital to the fulfillment of the school’s responsibility to take Columbia graduate education and graduate student life to new heights. Please make a gift to GSAS to support graduate education today. GSAS is committed to providing our students and faculty with every resource possible to perform groundbreaking work in their chosen fields. GSAS Giving Opportunities GSAS Annual Fund – Any Amount Provide critical funding for financial aid and other areas of the greatest immediate need. Dean’s Discretionary Fund – Any Amount Provide the Dean with the flexibility to respond quickly to emerging needs at GSAS, through both new initiatives and ongoing projects. Fellowship Fund for International Students – Any Amount Provide funding for summer research for international students who are not eligible for US federal funding. Fellowships in Academic Administration (current use) – $5,000 Fund internships for advanced doctoral students in administrative offices across Columbia’s campuses and New York City, enhancing their career preparation by introducing them to the day-to-day operations of the university and the private sector. Master’s Degree Fund (Current Use) – $25,000 Create a fund to support master’s students each year, allowing GSAS to attract the best students regardless of their financial circumstances. Endowed Partial GSAS Fellowship – $250,000 Establish a fellowship to invest in and train future generations of professors, scholars, artists, and scientists. Fellowship support allows our students to focus on their areas of research and realize their full potential, and increases the number of students who will have the opportunity to study at one of the nation’s most distinguished graduate schools. Full Graduate Fellowship – Minimum $1.5 Million Establish an endowed, named full graduate fellowship to ensure that GSAS continues to attract the world’s best students. A full graduate fellowship will support an academic field of the donor’s choosing while providing lasting and permanent support for a talented scholar to pursue his or her research. For more information on giving to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, please contact Evan Johnson at [email protected] or (212) 851-7966 or Julia Morton at [email protected] or (212) 851-7478. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close