Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift CU BE TRUE Clemson Be True Clemson Be True: Calling changemakers for Clemson, the nation and the world! How can you be true to your vocational purpose? How do you find your place in the system and acquire skills to become a changemaker on campus and in the world? This fall, join in an innovative diversity initiative called Clemson Be True and take dialogue at Clemson to a new place of deeper listening and understanding. You can join the Clemson Be True Hub and learn more about this free, self-paced, remote learning opportunity with optional Clemson community through an online MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) course offered at edX. CLEMSON PARTNERS Clemson Be True is a grant-supported project of the Chief Diversity Office in cooperation with these campus partners: CODA (Undergraduate Student Government’s Council on Diversity Affairs); Clemson Abroad; Clemson Ethos; Creative Inquiry; The DEN (Design & Entrepreneurship Network); Economic Development; Clemson Thinks2; Global Engagement; Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center; International Center for Academic Integrity; International Services; PEER; Rutland Institute for Ethics; Service Alliance; Social Media Listening Center; WISE; and Women’s Leadership at Clemson. For questions, contact Kathy Russ at cu_betrue@clemson.edu or 864-656-3642. CONTACT If you have additional questions about Clemson Be True, please contact: Kathy Russ cu_betrue@clemson.edu 864-656-3642 IMPORTANT DATES Monday, February 1, 5—7 p.m. Wednesday, February 3, 12—2 p.m. and 5—7 p.m. Introduction and Live Demonstration Academic Success Center Auditorium (ASC 118) Attendance at one of these sessions is required in order to participate unless other arrangements have been made with the program coordinator, Kathy Russ, at cu_betrue@clemson.edu. Each coaching circle meets weekly for one hour over a period of six weeks, February 8 – March 31, 2016. REGISTER Two easy steps to register: Fill out the online form below to receive your free e-book and confirmation email. Enroll in the MIT online course, 'Transforming Business, Society and Self with U.Lab’ to access course materials. Get started and receive your free U.Lab e-book, “Leading from the Emerging Future: From Ego-system to Eco-system Economies” by O. Scharmer and K. Kaufer. This e-book provides the overview for U.Lab 2.0. First Name Last Name Email Phone Number (optional) Select one: Student Faculty Staff If Student, select one: Freshman Sophomore Junior Senior Graduate Student n/a Academic Major/Degree Submit Events No events found Learn more about the Clemson Be True Grant. Clemson Be True About CU BeTrue Leadership Challenge Course Schedule Clemson U.LAB Presencing Institute Partners Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram