Facebook Twitter instagram YouTube The RELLIS Campus We Teach Texas EmpowerU Health Science Center Veterans Home Staff Login About Regents Chancellor Offices Academic Affairs Business Affairs Finance General Counsel Governmental Relations Information Technology Internal Audit Marketing And Communications National Laboratories National Security Strategic Initiatives Research Texas Division of Emergency Management SSO Jobs Contact Select Page About The Texas A&M University System is one of the largest systems of higher education in the nation, with a budget of $7.2 billion. Through a statewide network of 11 universities, a comprehensive health science center, eight state agencies, and the RELLIS Campus, the Texas A&M System educates more than 152,000 students and makes more than 24 million additional educational contacts through service and outreach programs each year. System-wide, research and development expenditures exceed $1 billion and help drive the state’s economy. Universities Agencies Executive Committee Chief Executive Officers Frequently Asked Questions More Information Universities The Texas A&M University System was created by the Texas Legislature in 1948 to manage the evolution of a statewide educational, research and service system. Its roots lie in the founding of what are now Texas A&M University and Prairie View A&M University as land-grant colleges in 1876. Today, the Texas A&M System provides oversight and leadership for 11 universities and eight state agencies. Its role is governed by the state’s education code (Title 3, chiefly Ch. 51, Sec. 51.353 and Ch. 85, Sec. 85.17). Responsibilities include system-wide planning, coordination, and execution of the policies of The Texas A&M University System Board of Regents. John Tarleton Agricultural College at Stephenville (now Tarleton State University) joined an earlier form of the A&M System in 1917. Tarleton State University-Central Texas, an upper-level institution offering bachelor’s and master’s degrees, was established in Killeen in 1999. The Galveston Marine Laboratory joined with the Texas Maritime Academy in the 1960s to form Texas A&M University at Galveston, Texas A&M’s marine studies branch. Texas A&M University at Qatar was established in 2003 to bring engineering programs and research to the Gulf Region by establishing a branch campus in an area called Education City in Doha, Qatar. Education City is a 2,400-acre multi-university campus housing various American universities. In 1989, the A&M System increased its presence in South Texas with the addition of Texas A&M International University (formerly Laredo State University) in Laredo, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi (formerly Corpus Christi State University) and Texas A&M University-Kingsville (formerly Texas A&I University). The Texas A&M University-Kingsville System Center-San Antonio, which offers bachelor’s and master’s degrees, was opened in 2000. In 1990, West Texas State University in the Texas Panhandle city of Canyon joined the A&M System, changing its name to West Texas A&M University in 1993. In 1996, three other institutions joined the A&M System: Baylor College of Dentistry in Dallas and two former East Texas State University campuses, now Texas A&M University-Commerce and Texas A&M University-Texarkana. The Texas A&M Health Science Center, established in 1999, officially merged with Texas A&M University in 2013. The five health-related colleges have campuses in Bryan/College Station, Dallas, Temple, Houston, Round Rock, Kingsville, and McAllen. Its five colleges are the Dentistry, Medicine, Nursing, Public Health, and the Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy. In 2009, Tarleton State University System Center-Central Texas became a standalone university, Texas A&M University-Central Texas. That same year, Texas A&M University-Kingsville System Center-San Antonio also became a standalone university, Texas A&M University-San Antonio. Each of the members of the A&M System has its own mission, history and goals. The oldest institution and founding member of the A&M System is Texas A&M University, established in 1876. Many of the member universities and agencies joined the A&M System decades after being established. Together, they strive to provide educational programs, outreach and community enhancement services, as well as research that will improve the lives of people in Texas and beyond. More than one in five students in a public university in Texas is enrolled in an A&M System institution. Texas A&M consistently ranks in the forefront among public universities in Texas in retention rates—keeping students enrolled and on course for graduation both overall and for African-American and Hispanic students. A&M System students receive about $580 million in scholarships and grants annually. The A&M System awarded 36,346 degrees in FY 2018. The A&M System’s faculty includes recipients of the Nobel Prize, National Medal of Science, Pulitzer Prize, World Food Prize and the Wolf Prize, as well as members in the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Engineering. Total Texas A&M University System Enrollment for Fall Semesters University Summary Table University Est. Joined A&M System Texas A&M University 1876 1876 Prairie View A&M University 1876 1973 Texas A&M University-Commerce 1889 1996 Tarleton State University 1899 1917 West Texas A&M University 1910 1990 Texas A&M University-Kingsville 1925 1989 Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi 1947 1989 Texas A&M International University 1970 1989 Texas A&M University-Texarkana 1971 1996 Texas A&M University-Central Texas 2009 1999 Texas A&M University-San Antonio 2009 2000 Agencies The A&M System boasts 8 state agencies with missions ranging from research to protecting natural resources and communities. Established by the Texas Legislature in 1887 under the federal Hatch Act, Texas A&M AgriLife Research (formerly the Texas Agricultural Experiment Station) continues to represent a unique state-federal partnership in agricultural research. Texas A&M AgriLife Extension (formerly the Texas Agricultural Extension Service) grew out of the agricultural initiatives of Texas A&M University under the provisions of the Smith-Lever Act of 1914, which provided for cooperative agricultural extension work between Texas land-grant colleges and the United States Department of Agriculture. Texas A&M Forest Service was established in 1914, as a way to provide resources to develop and protect the forested areas of Texas. Today, TFS is charged with conserving and protecting the resources and lands of the Lone Star State. Texas legislators created Texas A&M Veterinary Medical Diagnostic Laboratory during the regular session of the 60th Legislature, in 1967; the lab formally opened in College Station in 1969. The Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station was also created in 1914 with a research and technology transfer mission for the field of engineering. Established five years later, the Texas A&M Engineering Extension Service is dedicated to helping develop a highly skilled workforce through technical and vocational training. The Texas A&M Transportation Institute, created in 1950, conducts highway, safety, and other transportation-related research. In 2019, the Texas Division of Emergency Management joined the A&M System as its eighth state agency. With roots in the civil defense programs established during World War II, TDEM is charged with carrying out a comprehensive all-hazard emergency management program for the State and for assisting cities, counties, and state agencies in planning and implementing their emergency management programs. Texas A&M AgriLife Research Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station Texas A&M Forest Service Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service Texas A&M Engineering Extension Service Texas A&M Transportation Institute Texas Division of Emergency Management Texas A&M Veterinary Medical Diagnostic Laboratory Executive Committee The Texas A&M University System executive committee provides the chancellor assessment, advice and recommendations on issues within the A&M System and the System Offices. The 16-member committee may also aid the Board of Regents in implementing and overseeing strategic plans and policies as they relate to the system. John Sharp Chancellor Billy Hamilton Deputy Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer Ray Bonilla General Counsel Laylan Copelin Vice Chancellor for Marketing and Communications Joe Elabd Vice Chancellor for Research James Hallmark Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Charlie Hrncir Chief Auditor Jenny Jones Vice Chancellor for Governmental Relations W. Nim Kidd Vice Chancellor for Disaster and Emergency Services Phillip Ray Vice Chancellor for Business Affairs Maria L. Robinson Chief Investment Officer and Treasurer Mark Stone Chief Information Officer M. Katherine Banks President of Texas A&M University and Vice Chancellor of National Laboratories and National Security Strategic Initiatives John E. Hurtado Interim Vice Chancellor and Dean of Engineering Mark Hussey Interim Vice Chancellor and Dean of Agriculture and Life Sciences Stanton Calvert Vice Chancellor Emeritus Frank Ashley Vice Chancellor Emeritus Chief Executive Officers The Texas A&M University System chief executive officers serve the chancellor and Board of Regents through their leadership in developing the overall strategic planning of the A&M System’s 11 universities and eight state agencies and ensuring their sustained performance to the maximum benefit of the state of Texas and the nation. Presidents Texas A&M University M. Katherine Banks President Prairie View A&M University Ruth Simmons President Tarleton State University James L. Hurley President Texas A&M International University Pablo Arenaz President Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi Kelly Miller President Texas A&M University-Kingsville James Hallmark Interim President West Texas A&M University Walter Wendler President Texas A&M University-Commerce Mark Rudin President Texas A&M University-Texarkana Emily Fourmy Cutrer President Texas A&M University-Central Texas Marc A. Nigliazzo President Texas A&M University-San Antonio Cynthia Teniente-Matson President Directors Agriculture and Life Sciences Agriculture and Life Sciences Mark Hussey Interim Vice Chancellor and Dean Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service Rick Avery Director Texas A&M Veterinary Medical Diagnostic Laboratory Amy K. Swinford Director Texas A&M AgriLife Research Cliff Lamb Director Texas A&M Forest Service Al Davis Interim Director Engineering Engineering John E. Hurtado Interim Vice Chancellor and Dean Texas A&M Engineering Extension Service David Coatney Director Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station John E. Hurtado Interim Director Texas A&M Transportation Institute Gregory D. Winfree Director Emergency Management Texas Division of Emergency Management W. Nim Kidd Chief Frequently Asked Questions What is The Texas A&M University System? The Texas A&M University System is one of the largest systems of higher education in the nation, with a budget of $7.2 billion. Through a statewide network of 11 universities, a comprehensive health science center, eight state agencies, and the RELLIS Campus, the Texas A&M System educates more than 152,000 students and makes more than 24 million additional educational contacts through service and outreach programs each year. System-wide, research and development expenditures exceed $1 billion and help drive the state’s economy. When was the A&M System established? The Texas A&M University System was officially established in 1948. The original members were Texas A&M University, Prairie View A&M University, Tarleton State University, Texas A&M Forest Service, Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station, Texas A&M Engineering Extension Service, Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service (formerly Texas Cooperative Extension) and Texas A&M AgriLife Research (formerly Texas Agricultural Experiment Station). Today, the Texas A&M System provides oversight and leadership for 11 universities and eight state agencies. Its role is governed by the state’s education code (Title 3, chiefly Ch. 51, Sec. 51.353 and Ch. 85, Sec. 85.17). Responsibilities include system-wide planning, coordination and execution of the policies of The Texas A&M University System Board of Regents. University Est. Joined A&M System Texas A&M University 1876 1876 Prairie View A&M University 1876 1973 Texas A&M University-Commerce 1889 1996 Tarleton State University 1899 1917 West Texas A&M University 1910 1990 Texas A&M University-Kingsville 1925 1989 Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi 1947 1989 Texas A&M International University 1970 1989 Texas A&M University-Texarkana 1971 1996 Texas A&M University-Central Texas 2009 1999 Texas A&M University-San Antonio 2009 2000 Agencies Est. Texas A&M AgriLife Research 1888 Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station 1914 Texas A&M Forest Service 1915 Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service 1915 Texas A&M Engineering Extension Service 1948 Texas A&M Transportation Institute 1950 Texas Division of Emergency Management 1951 Texas A&M Veterinary Medical Diagnostic Laboratory 1967 What does “A” and “M” stand for? Texas A&M, the state’s first public institution of higher education, was opened on Oct. 4, 1876, as the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas. Both Texas A&M and Prairie View A&M owe their origin to the Morrill Acts of 1862 and 1890, which established the nation’s land-grant college system. When Texas A&M gained university status in 1963, the “A&M” was incorporated into the official name in deference to the institution’s history and traditions, but the individual letters no longer explicitly stand for anything. What is the mission of The Texas A&M University System? The mission of The Texas A&M University System is to provide education, conduct research, commercialize technology, offer training, and deliver services for the people of Texas and beyond through its universities, state agencies and health science center. The A&M System is the state’s land-grant system. What does that mean? A land-grant college or university is an institution that has been designated by its state legislature or Congress to receive the benefits of the Morrill Acts of 1862 and 1890. The original mission of these institutions, as set forth in the first Morrill Act, was to teach agriculture, military tactics and the mechanical arts as well as classical studies so that members of the working classes could obtain a practical education. The A&M System’s agencies, which conduct research and bring practical applications of research findings to the people of Texas, also came out of the land-grant system. There is now at least one land-grant institution in every state and territory of the United States, as well as in the District of Columbia. How is the A&M System governed? The A&M System is governed by a nine-member Board of Regents, appointed by the governor and confirmed by the Texas Senate for six-year terms. A nonvoting student member was added in 2006. The A&M System chancellor oversees the day-to-day administration, and each of the A&M System’s members has a president, CEO or director. What does “upper-level institution” mean? This means that the university offers courses only for junior and senior students (and perhaps graduate students). Students transfer to these institutions after completing their freshmen and sophomore years elsewhere. Texas A&M University-Central Texas is an upper-level institution. What are the Permanent University Fund and Available University Fund? The Permanent University Fund (PUF) is a public endowment contributing to the support of certain universities and agencies in the A&M System and certain universities in the University of Texas System. The PUF was established in the Texas Constitution of 1876. Today, the PUF includes over 2.1 million acres in 19 West Texas counties. Mineral income from this land has accumulated over several decades and the PUF was valued at approximately $17.9 billion as of Aug. 31, 2016. All mineral income and all increases in the value of equity investments from PUF capital gains become and remain an inviolate part of the endowment. The PUF’s 2.1 million acres of West Texas land produce two streams of income. Mineral income remains forever part of the PUF endowment and cannot be expended, but surface income (primarily grazing and surface leasing) flows directly into the Available University Fund (AUF). In addition, financial investments held in the PUF are utilized to provide a payout stream into the AUF. The annual distribution to the AUF is based on a percentage of the market value for the last 12 quarters ended each February. The A&M System may sell debt equal to 10 percent of the book value of the PUF. The indebtedness is secured by AUF income and among other factors is rated on the stability of the PUF, the quality of its investment management and other commitments of the AUF. The Texas constitution specifies allowable uses of the AUF to include debt service on PUF debt, and support and maintenance for the A&M System Offices, Texas A&M and Prairie View A&M. The following members of the A&M System benefit from PUF bond proceeds: Texas A&M University Texas A&M AgriLife Research Texas A&M University at Galveston Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Prairie View A&M University Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station Tarleton State University Texas A&M Engineering Extension Service Texas A&M Health Science Center Texas A&M Transportation Institute Texas A&M University – Central Texas Texas A&M Forest Service Texas A&M University – San Antonio System Offices Does the “top 10” rule for admission apply to all A&M System universities? Yes. Those who graduate in the top 10 percent of their class from a Texas high school will gain admission into any of the A&M System’s nine universities. Does the A&M System have a central admissions office? No, students must directly contact preferred A&M System institution’s admission office. Information about these institutions can be found on the system’s website, www.tamus.edu. Where can I find out about jobs in the A&M System? The System HR Office maintains links to all the job opportunities with the A&M System. Where can I find enrollment and other information for each A&M System member? Total Texas A&M University System Enrollment for Fall Semesters More Information View more information about the A&M System below, as well as resources from the A&M System Office of Marketing and Communications. Facts Book Total Texas A&M University System Enrollment Organizational Chart The Texas A&M University System Strategic Plan Campus Carry Rules Contact Us Latest Tweets Tweets by @tamusystem Latest News 5G Research Testbed at RELLIS Opens for Business of Innovation Regents Add Fort Worth Urban Campus to Capital Plan Texas A&M-Kingsville Alumnus, Robert Vela Jr., Named President A&M-Kingsville Alumnus Named Sole Finalist to Lead Alma Mater Kim McCuistion to lead A&M System’s Downtown Fort Worth Campus Nebraska teen plans return to A&M for grad school after Make-A-Wish visit Useful Links Agenda Items Brand Guide Facts Book Open Records Research Security Office Staff Directory System News System Policies Library System Strategic Plan Facebook Twitter instagram YouTube Copyright © 2022 Texas A&M University System All rights reserved. 301 Tarrow Street, College Station, TX 77840 | MAP | Phone: (979) 458-7700 | email: tamus-webmaster@tamus.edu State of Texas | Texas Homeland Security | Texas Veterans Portal | Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | Privacy |State Link Policy | Web Accessibility | Campus Carry