Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps Capital Planning Capital Planning Print Overview The Capital Plan is a tool that helps the University understand and plan for upcoming projects over the next five years. The Division of Facilities and Real Estate Services manages the planning process. Every Fall each School and Center is contacted to initiate the planning process. Each School and Center meets at the Left Bank during December and January with the Budget Office, representatives from the Provost/EVP Office, Development, Facilities, and the Treasurer’s Office to discuss their plans in detail. The plan is updated as individual projects go through the budget approval process. For more information about the budget approval process, please see the Initiate a Project » section of our website. Process Before the Capital Plan meetings in December and January, the Principal Planning Engineer contacts each School and Center about their renewal needs. Schools and Centers are encouraged to include needs in planned projects if they are in the same space or to partner with the Principal Planning Engineer to expedite their priority needs. For a more detailed explanation of the Facilities Renewal Fund, please visit the Facilities Renewal page». If a School or Center has a lease, the Director of Portfolio Management meets with and discusses the renewal of their leases and any additional needs before their Capital Plan submission. The School or Center must submit their final leasing plan, with their Capital Plan, in December in order to consider their submission complete. A signed Capital Plan Signature Memo will need to submitted with the planning templates. Capital Planning Forms The Capital Needs Statement and CITE Capital Needs Statement have been updated to reflect the new capital approval thresholds. FY2023 Capital Planning Template FY2024-2028 Capital Planning Template Capital Plan Signature Memo Template For Leasing Forms, please visit the Leasing section » of our website. Additional Resources CapitalNeedsStatement.docx IT and Equip - CITE - Capital Needs Statement.docx CapitalProjectReqSched.xls IT and Equipment Capital Approval Policy.doc IT and Equip Capital Request.doc IT_PurchaseSchedule.xls EquipPurchaseSchedule.xls Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Info for: Penn Community Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage