Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Major Apply Request More Info Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Explore contemporary gender dynamics, as well as feminist theory and methodology, with the Bachelor of Arts in Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. Take an intersectional approach to studying ability, class, gender, race and sexuality while examining their impact across cultural, economic, historical and political contexts. This 123-credit undergraduate degree program draws from the breadth and diversity of liberal arts coursework, allowing you to tailor your course of study. The Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Major at Temple is a close-knit community, so you benefit from small class sizes and receive individual attention from professors. Through the curriculum, you’ll learn to apply different methods of critical analysis to gender, sexual identity and women’s experiences; attain a heightened sensitivity for marginalized and oppressed groups; and examine power dynamics. Interdisciplinary by design, the program comprises more than 60 faculty members from other schools and colleges across the university so you broaden your expertise in national and global gender and sexuality issues. The faculty’s diverse fields of study include history, literary criticism, philosophy and social science, and all are committed to gender- and sexuality-based equity. Students interested in these topics can explore related minor programs. The 21-credit Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Minor establishes a foundation of knowledge on key topics surrounding gender, sexuality and race. The 18-credit Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Studies Minor analyzes sexual orientation through a critical examination of history, literature, sociopolitical issues and theory. Classes & Curriculum In addition to university and College of Liberal Arts required courses, the Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies curriculum includes foundational coursework; classes on gender and domestic violence, LGBTQ activism, and the history of sexuality; as well as related literature and theory. The culminating academic experience for students in the Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies program is the research seminar course. Collaborate with professors and librarians to build a foundation of research skills, find and evaluate sources, and perform critical reflection and analysis of the subject matter. Required courses that you will take as part of the curriculum include Critical Race Feminist Theory, Feminist Theory and Foundations in Women's Studies. Elective courses that you can take as part of the curriculum include Gender, Race, Class and the City; LGBTQ Social Movements; Men and Masculinities; and Women and Political Violence. Learn more about the Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies BA curriculum. 4+1 Accelerated Degree Programs The College of Liberal Arts offers three 4+1 accelerated degree programs for Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies majors. Eligible undergraduate students can use up to 12 specified graduate credits approved by the College of Liberal Arts to fulfill requirements for their undergraduate degree. Students apply for graduate degree programs in their junior year. Students earn a BA or BS degree upon successful completion of their fourth academic year. At the end of their fifth year, students earn a master's degree. Students can apply to one of the following accelerated degree programs. Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies BA / Sociology MA Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies BA / Adult and Organizational Development MEd Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies BA / Urban Education MEd Learn more about accelerated programs in the College of Liberal Arts. Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Rujuta Chincholkar-Mandelia is the undergraduate advisor for the Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies BA program. Phone: 215-204-6953 Email: rujuta@temple.edu Program Contact For questions regarding the Bachelor of Arts in Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies, contact the following staff member. Stephanie Morawski is the administrator. Phone: 215-204-8516 Email: morawski@temple.edu The following staff member leads the Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies Department. Barbara Thornbury is the director of the Department of Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies. Email: bthor@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple through student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. The following clubs and organizations are available to Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies BA students. The American Medical Women’s Association works to advance women in medicine and improve women’s health. The Association for Computing Machinery-Women provides a dynamic space for women in technology to network and attend professional development events that focus on conferences, job search preparedness, hackathons and mentoring opportunities. The Association for Women in Mathematics promotes the inclusion and retention of women in mathematics. The Feminist Alliance advances the values of intersectional feminism and opposes all forms of oppression. It’s On Us is a national campaign to end sexual violence on higher education campuses, as well as support survivors and allies. LGBTQ and Allies in Medicine hosts events, promotes community and provides resources regarding LGBTQ health issues. The National Council of Negro Women, Inc.—Temple Section seeks to empower and resource African American women and other women of color. The Queer Film Collective hosts film screenings and panel discussions that highlight queer films and queer filmmakers. The Queer Nerd Association is dedicated to the intersection of LGBTQIA culture and nerd culture. Queer People of Color fosters an inclusive community and provides resources to empower queer people of color. The Queer Student Union (QSU) provides a safe social space for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex and asexual students. QSU hosts activities, explores current issues and seeks to develop the queer community at Temple. The Society of Women Engineers is a national organization that brings together students and professionals to help women and girls become engineers. Students for Trans Awareness and Rights supports gender-nonconforming individuals and works to end violence and discrimination against trans people. The Women’s Entrepreneurial Organization works to support and empower women entrepreneurs. The Women in Medicine organization is committed to increasing the number of women in health-related fields through high school visits, hands-on clinical experience and mentorships. Learn more about Temple's student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your experience at Temple by exploring a different culture through the lens of gender and sexuality, and discover issues faced by women, people who identify as nonbinary, and queer communities outside of the United States. Become a more globally minded person, and expand an understanding of your studies and yourself while building a better résumé and a worldwide network along the way. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-GSWS-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info