Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Italian Studies Home About People Academics Research and Publications Faculty Bookshelf Virtual Humanities Lab (VHL) Italian Studies Colloquium Events Site Navigation Home About People Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Resources Chiasmi Courses Brown in Bologna Semester or Academic Year Abroad Brown in Bologna Summer Program Research and Publications Faculty Bookshelf Virtual Humanities Lab (VHL) Italian Studies Colloquium Events Past Events Faculty Bookshelf EVELYN LINCOLN: "Printers and Publishers in Early Modern Rome," in A Companion to Early Modern Rome, 1492-1692, Brill: 2019 Evelyn Lincoln's contribution to this volume, edited by Pamela M. Jones, Barbara Wisch, and Simon Ditchfield, focuses on networks of printers and publishers in Rome, during an era of striking renewal: demographic, architectural, intellectual, and artistic. Read More DAVID KERTZER, The Pope That Would Be King, Penguin-Random House, 2018 The Pulitzer Prize–winning author of The Pope and Mussolini tells the story of the bloody revolution that stripped the pope of political power and signaled the birth of modern Europe. “Kertzer’s brilliant treatment of the crisis in the papacy between 1846 and 1850 reads like a thriller. All the characters, from the poor of Rome to the king of Naples, stand out with a vividness that testifies to his mastery of prose.”—The New York Review of Books Read More MASSIMO RIVA, "Mini Gran Tour, in 3D," in: Time Machine. Virtual Photographic Trips Around the World 100 Years Ago, Eds. Alberto Zotti Minici, Massimiliano Pinucci, Massimo Riva, Florence: MBVision, 2018. In his introductory essay to the Catalog of the exhibition he co-curated, held at Palazzo Angeli in Padua, Italy, 21 December 2018 - 3 March 2019, Massimo Riva focuses on stereoscopic journeys to Italy showing how they played a prominent role in the marketing of virtual mass tourism at the turn of the twentieth century. Read More FILOMENA FANTARELLA, Un Figlio per Nemico, Donzelli Editore: 2018 A compelling biographical work on Gaetano Salvemini (1873 - 1957), one of the most influential Italian intellectuals of his generation. The book reconstructs Salvemini’s private life from the loss of his family in the Messina earthquake of 1908 to 1946, when fascism, the World War, and his stepson’s execution for collaborationism with the Nazis, ruined his second family as well. Read More SUZANNE STEWART-STEINBERG, "Grounds for Reclamation: Fascism and Postfascism in the Pontine Marshes" in differences (2016) 27 (1): 94-142. This article is a first foray into a new book project entitled "Grounds for Reclamation: Fascism, Postfascism, and the Question of Consent." It investigates the ways in which fascist "ruralizing" policies of land reclamation were portrayed by the regime itself, as also today by political forces interested in reclaiming fascism itself. Read More CAROLINE CASTIGLIONE, Accounting for Affection: Mothering and Politics in Early Modern Rome, Palgrave: 2015 Accounting for Affection examines the multifaceted nature of early modern motherhood by focusing on the ideas and strategies of Roman aristocratic mothers during familial conflict. Illuminating new approaches to the maternal and the familial employed by such women, it demonstrates how such interventions gained increasing favor in early modern Rome. Read More The Divine Comedy, Paradiso, Eds. Robert Durling and Ronald Martinez, Oxford University Press 2013 The notes by Ronald L. Martinez and Robert M. Durling to this third volume of their edition of Dante's masterpiece not only illuminate the Paradiso but stress the links among all three volumes of the Commedia, providing the comprehensive historical, political, biblical, and theological contexts that enrich the reader's understanding of the poem. Read More CRISTINA ABBONA-SNEIDER, Trame: A Contemporary Italian Reader, Eds. Cristina Abbona-Sneider, Antonello Borra, and Cristina Pausini, Yale UP 2009 Trame: A Contemporary Italian Reader brings together short stories, poems, interviews, excerpts from movie scripts and novels, and other works by 33 renowned authors. Read More Research and Publications Faculty Bookshelf Virtual Humanities Lab (VHL) Italian Studies Colloquium Department of Italian Studies Department of Italian Studies Brown University Box 1942 190 Hope Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1561 Fax: 401-863-3304 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top