Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Nonprofit Management, BS Start an Impactful Career That Strengthens Community Relationships Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Public Administration, Schl of 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Learn How Nonprofits Operate and Explore Their Value in Communities The BS in Nonprofit Management degree at UCF helps you learn the fundamental elements of how nonprofit organizations operate. The program provides an in-depth look at two critical elements of nonprofits: fiscal resources and human (people) resources. Both are necessary for organizations to provide intended services to their community. As a nonprofit major, you’ll gain a well-rounded approach that provides you with the skills and knowledge required to support nonprofit organizations in a variety of capacities. Classes are offered fully online, mixed-mode, and at UCF Downtown, making it easy to select class options that work for your schedule. You’ll also get first-hand experience working with a nonprofit organization through your required internship course. This allows you to learn what it takes to succeed in the industry while making connections along the way. The UCF School of Public Administration also coordinates an annual nonprofit conference that provides you with additional opportunities to directly interact with nonprofit leaders around the region and country. Upon graduation, work in organizational support roles in areas such as development/fundraising, program management and evaluation, financial management, human resources/volunteer management and communications. The nonprofit degree could also be moderately equated to a business degree if your interests align more with nonprofit or charitable organizations. Plus, after completing your coursework, you’ll be prepared to pursue a national credential in nonprofit leadership and management from the Nonprofit Leadership Alliance and a certificate in fundraising from the Association of Fundraising Professionals. This helps you stay competitive and gives you an edge on the competition. Highlights First nonprofit management bachelor’s degree program in Florida. International dual degree program option allows students to pursue a BS/BA in nonprofit management from UCF and a BS in public administration from a university in Lithuania. The job outlook for community outreach specialists is expected to grow 11 percent through 2028. Community outreach specialists earn around $46K across the U.S. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Volunteer Management Examine the recruitment, selection, training and management of volunteers in nonprofit organizations and the application of management theory. Nonprofit Organizations Learn the operations of nonprofit organizations, including working with board of directors, volunteer services, fund-raising and grantsmanship, financial management and marketing. Resource Development in the Nonprofit Sector Explore the development and management of human resources and financial resource development in nonprofit organizations is discussed. View All Nonprofit Management Courses You’ll Take There is a need for entry level employees who understand the complexities of working in nonprofit organizations. Through courses and extracurricular activities, the undergraduate nonprofit programs at UCF are able to provide students the skills and competencies required to lead, manage, and thrive in this unique sector.” — Stephanie Krick, Ph.D., associate lecturer and academic program coordinator Nonprofit Management Skills You’ll Learn Execute fundraising campaigns and facilitate administrative functions related to development such as data entry and donor research. Support volunteer programs including the recruitment, training and retention. Research prospects for partnerships, events, etc. Work collaboratively with other staff to develop and improve organizational structure, programs and goal attainment. Implement program/service improvements based upon evaluation results and feedback. Assist in developing budgets and tracking expenditures as it relates to programs/services. Develop communication tools to support events, programs and general outreach. Career Opportunities Program Coordinator Outreach Specialist Grant Specialist Marketing Assistant Development Associate Events Specialist Volunteer Coordinator Community Relations/Engagement Assistant Public Administration News Check out more stories Research When Hurricanes Strike, Social Media Can Save Lives A UCF Study finds social media can be a powerful tool for cities to communicate and to collect information to deploy emergency resources where needed… Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Colleges & Campus 21 Faculty Members Inducted into UCF Scroll and Quill Society The honorees represent some of UCF’s best and brightest faculty who have helped elevate the university’s reputation on the national and international stages. Colleges & Campus UCF Public Administration Pegasus Professor Selected to Join the National Academy of Public Administration Naim Kapucu will be inducted as a 2021 fellow in early November. Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Nonprofit Management (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The School of Public Administration provides the highest quality undergraduate education for students interested in working in the nonprofit sector. The school strives to achieve local, state and national prominence through contemporary curriculum, innovative instruction, scholarly and applied research, and community service. Programs and services develop and enhance management skills essential to public and nonprofit organizations. The school offers an undergraduate program leading to a Bachelor of Arts (BA) or a Bachelor of Science (BS) in Nonprofit Management. The program provides opportunities for students to prepare for employment as nonprofit professionals and produces graduates with the management skills and analytical techniques needed for successful careers in nonprofit and related business fields. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students should complete the General Education Program and the Common Program Prerequisites before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Students should consult with a departmental advisor on a regular basis. Students must earn at least a "C-" in each course accepted as a common prerequisite and Core Requirement (see sections 2, 3, and 4). No transfer course will be accepted with a grade lower than a "C-". The courses designated in sections 1 (General Education) and 2 (Common Program Prerequisites) should usually be completed in the first 60 hours. Students must earn a 2.5 GPA in the major (all PAD courses) in order to graduate. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 30 - 33 Total Credits Complete the following: PAD3733 - Professional Administrative Writing in the Public Sector (3) PAD4104 - Administrative Theory (3) PAD4144 - Nonprofit Organizations (3) PAD4147 - Resource Development in the Nonprofit Sector (3) PAD4148 - Volunteer Management (3) PAD4153 - Planning and Improvement for Public Organizations (3) PAD4204 - Fiscal Management (3) PAD4325 - Program Evaluation for Public and Nonprofit Organizations (3) PAD4720 - Research Methods in Public Administration (3) PAD4942 - School of Public Administration Internship Orientation PAD4941 - Public Administration Internship (3 - 6) Required Minor 18 Total Credits Earn at least 18 credits from the following types of courses: Students must complete a minor. Students can choose from: Emergency Management and Homeland Security Minor; Public Administration Minor; Urban and Regional Planning Minor; or other minor approved by the Undergraduate Program Director excluding Nonprofit Management. Those who complete a recognized UCF minor in a discipline outside Public Administration must take a minimum of 18 hrs within that minor. Restricted Electives 6 Total Credits Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: Additional electives can be taken from other allied supporting fields such as accounting, legal studies, communications, computer science, criminal justice, economics, political science, social work, sociology, or statistics. Electives can also be taken from nonprofit sector "service area" concentrations such as: youth services, eldercare, environment, education, the arts, etc. Courses should be selected with the assistance of an advisor, and must be upper division (3000-4000 level). BA/BS Option 0 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Students pursuing the B.A. degree must demonstrate proficiency in a foreign language equivalent to one year at the college level. Students pursuing the B.S. degree must complete two additional upper level courses (six credit hours). Capstone Requirement 3 Total Credits Complete the following: PAD4934 - Nonprofit Leadership Seminar (3) Grand Total Credits: 57 - 60 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida