Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Computer Science About News Future Students Current Students Research People Outreach Giving Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News & Events Department News Upcoming Events Distinguished Colloquium Undergraduate Colloquium Newsletters Take Action Career Paths Degree Programs Courses Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebookLinkedIn Home Computer Science News & Events Department News 2022 2022 Faculty Accolades Several Computer Science faculty have been recently recognized by the university. Spring 2022 Newsletter The Spring 2022 CS Newsletter is now available! Applications Open for CyberCorps Scholarship for Service The CyberCorps Scholarship for Service provides up to 3 years of support for both undergraduate and graduate students, in return for post-graduation government service. Prof. Weizi Li Receives New NSF Grant Prof. Weizi Li was awarded a $175K grant from the National Science Foundation for his project "Towards Effective and Efficient City-scale Traffic Reconstruction." New GenCyber Grant from NSA The Department has received a new one-year, $100K cybersecurity education grant from the National Security Agency. New $3.8M Cybersecurity Education Grant from NSF The department has received a $3.8 million grant from the National Science Foundation to address the growing national demand for cybersecurity professionals. Department Receives $36K Gift from Intel The gift will be applied towards several diversity initiatives. Student Spotlight: Walt Williams Read about Walt's exciting activities on the Student and Alumni Spotlights page! 2021 Cybersecurity Postdoctoral Position Available For more information and to apply, please see the posting at https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/29249. Upcoming Python / Data Science Workshops The Department will host two Python workshops for professional audiences this fall: Accelerating Coding in Python (Nov. 5-6) and Data Science & Machine Learning (Nov. 12-13). Both workshops will be held live (virtually) over two days, taught by one of our computer science professors, and modeled after courses taught to CS majors in our program. For more information and to register, please see http://goo.gl/E73PyL. Group rates are available. CfIA Receives $2M Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity Grant The Center for Information Assurance (CfIA) at the University of Memphis will lead a $2M research-based Cybersecurity Education Innovation project funded by the Department of Defense’s National Centers of Academic Excellence in Cybersecurity (NCAE-C) program. Fall 2021 Faculty Accolades Several Computer Science faculty were recognized by the UofM College of Arts and Sciences during the annual meeting on Thursday, Aug. 19. Prof. Shiva Receives DHS Funding Prof. Sajjan Shiva has received funding for his project “Testing Requirements and Functionality of Machine Learning Systems Especially in Cyber Resilient Approaches” from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), through the Air Force Institute of Technology’s (AFIT) Test and Evaluation Center of Excellence. Student Spotlight: Subash Poudyal Read about Subash's exciting activities on the Student and Alumni Spotlights page! Rhonda Smothers Receives Dean's Outstanding Employee Award Administrative secretary Rhonda Smothers has received the Spring 2021 Dean's Outstanding Employee Award from the UofM College of Arts and Sciences. Alumnus Sidney D'Mello Leading $20M AI Institute Alumnus Sidney D'Mello (PhD 2009) is leading the NSF-funded AI Institute for Student-AI Teaming at the University of Colorado Boulder. Mazharul Hossain, Subash Poudyal Awarded at Student Research Forum PhD students Mazharul Hossain and Subash Poudyal were awarded first and second place, respectively, in the Math and Computer Science category at the UofM's 33rd Annual Student Research Forum. Spring 2021 Newsletter The Spring 2021 CS Newsletter is now available! Prof. Huang Awarded Grants from Adobe Prof. Xiaolei Huang has been awarded grants totaling $14k from Adobe to help with his research. New $300K NSF Grant for Computer Science Education The Department has been awarded a new $299,333 grant from the National Science Foundation for "Improving the Quality of Teaching Assistant Feedback to Undergraduate Students in Introductory Computer Science Courses." 2020 Prof. Dasgupta Honored by Greater Memphis IT Council Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta, Hill Professor of Cybersecurity and director of the Center for Information Assurance, was honored by the Greater Memphis IT Council at its annual INNOVATE IT conference for his development of the patent for Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication. Alumnus Recognized among Top Amazon AWS Engineers Alumnus Steve Ash (PhD 2017) has been promoted to Principal Engineer at Amazon AWS, which make up only the top fraction of AWS engineers. Congratulations! Fall 2020 Python Data Science Workshops Going Virtual Our Fall 2020 workshops on Data Science & Analytics in Python are going virtual. Research Assistant Professor Position Available The Center for Information Assurance is seeking a Research Assistant Professor. Christos Papadopoulos Joins Department as Sparks Family Chair of Excellence Dr. Christos Papadopoulos was recently appointed and joined the UofM in August as the Sparks Family Chair of Excellence in the Department of Computer Science. Alumnus Sarah Lee Named Director of USM Computing School Alumnus Dr. Sarah Lee (PhD 2011) has been named director of the School of Computing Sciences and Computer Engineering at the University of Southern Mississippi (USM). Fall 2020 Faculty Accolades Several Computer Science faculty are being recognized this fall by the UofM for their achievements. Profs. Venugopal and Rus Awarded $413K NSF Grant Profs. Deepak Venugopal (PI) and Vasile Rus (Co-PI) have been awarded a new $413K grant from the National Science Foundation entitled "Investigating Techniques that Couple Markov Logic and Deep Learning with Applications to Discovering Strategies to Improve STEM Learning." Postdoctoral Position Available in Partnership with Green Mountain Technology Green Mountain Technology has partnered with the University of Memphis to fund a postdoctoral position in the field of computer science. Prof. Lan Wang Leading $825K NSF-funded mGuard Project in Collaboration with MD2K and UCLA Professor and chair Lan Wang (PI) is leading the new mGuard project with co-PIs Prof. Santosh Kumar and Prof. Lixia Zhang from UCLA. mGuard aims to address two major data access challenges encountered by the NIH Center of Excellence for Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge (MD2K) in its pursuit to share mobile health (mHealth) data among researchers who investigate a wide range of health and wellness issues. New $5.9M Grant from NIH for AI-Based Mobile Health The National Institutes of Health (NIH) has awarded a $5.9 million grant for establishing the mHealth Center for Discovery, Optimization, and Translation of Temporally-Precise Interventions (mDOT). mDOT will be headquartered at the MD2K Center of Excellence at the University of Memphis, under the direction of Prof. Santosh Kumar. Prof. Dasgupta Awarded New U.S. Patent Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta has been awarded U.S. Patent 10,671,747, entitled "Multi-user permission strategy to access sensitive information." New Cybersecurity Training Grant A joint effort of Engineering Technology and Computer Science has been awarded a $318,000 grant from the Department of Defense to build a team consisting of students capable of effectively conducting research studies in the area of cybersecurity, pairing a variety of skills with organization and leadership to enhance research outcomes in the ROTC program. Soujanya Chatterjee Awarded at Student Research Forum PhD student Soujanya Chatterjee received first place in the Math and Computer Science category at the UofM's 32nd Annual Student Research Forum, which was held online this year. Spring 2020 Newsletter The Spring 2020 CS Newsletter is now available! Prof. Deepak Venugopal Receives Early Career Research Award Prof. Deepak Venugopal has been selected as a recipient of the 2020 Early Career Research Award from the UofM College of Arts and Sciences. Alumnus Mahbub Rahman Receives Best Paper Award at IEEE PerCom Mahbub Rahman, who completed his PhD at the UofM with Prof. Santosh Kumar in 2016, has received the Industry Track Best Paper Award at IEEE PerCom 2020. MD2K Researchers Launch App for Personal Tracking of Social Distancing Researchers at the MD2K Center of Excellence, headquartered at the UofM and under the direction of Computer Science Prof. Santosh Kumar, have announced the launch of a free mobile app called mContain to help track social distancing during the COVID-19 outbreak with a goal to reduce community transmission. New NSF Grant and CVPR Paper for Prof. Gao Prof. Xing Gao has been awarded a new NSF grant and had a paper accepted to the prestigious CVPR conference. Prof. Dasgupta Featured on FOX13 Memphis Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta was featured on a recent FOX13 Memphis newscast on cybersecurity. Prof. Watson Receives NSF CAREER Award Prof. Thomas Watson has received a CAREER award from the National Science Foundation for his project entitled "Structural Communication Complexity." Profs. Rus and Fleming Co-PIs on $3.4M NSF Grant Profs. Vasile Rus and Scott Fleming are co-PIs on a new $3.4M grant from the National Science Foundation's Improving Undergraduate STEM Education (IUSE) program. Department Seeks Chair of Excellence in Smart & Autonomous Systems Please see the posting on CRA. Memphis DATA Conference - March 26-27 The Memphis DATA Conference on data science will be held Thursday and Friday, March 26-27 at the FedEx Institute of Technology. Department Receives $10K Grant from NCWIT The Department has been awarded a $10K grant from the National Center for Women & Information Technology to help recruit and retain female undergraduate students. 2019 Silicon Valley Startup Licenses Patent for Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication System The University of Memphis Research Foundation has signed an agreement to license a U.S. patent for an Adaptive Multi-factor Authentication System invented and developed by a team led by Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta, professor of Computer Science and director of the Center for Information Assurance. Assistant Professor Position Available Please see the posting on CRA. Prof. Rus Receives $2.58M Grant to Begin Learner Data Institute Led by William Dunavant Prof. Vasile Rus with co-PI Prof. Deepak Venugopal, this NSF-funded project will lay the foundation for a future Learner Data Institute (LDI). Its mission will be to harness the data revolution to further our understanding of how people learn, how to improve adaptive instructional systems (AISs), and how to improve the learning ecosystem's effectiveness and cost-efficiency as well as the learners’ and instructors' engagement and satisfaction while learning with technology. Map901 Project Featured on GCN The Map901 project was featured in GCN this week for its potential impact on first responders' safety and efficiency. The project involves the use of light detection and ranging (LiDAR) technology to map building interiors. Prof. Dasgupta Visits UK Universities Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta gave an invited talk on his adaptive multi-factor authentication (A-MFA) research at the University of Oxford on a recent visit to the UK. Summer 2019 Camps The Department will offer two camps this summer for pre-college students. Student Spotlight: Ryan Wickman Read about Ryan's exciting activities on the Student and Alumni Spotlights page! Summer 2019 Newsletter The Summer 2019 CS Newsletter is now available! Prof. Lan Wang Receives Distinguished Research Award Prof. Lan Wang, department chair, has been selected to receive the 2019 Alumni Association Distinguished Research Award in Science, Engineering, and Mathematics. Undergraduates Compete in 2019 CCSC Mid-South Programming Contest Five undergraduate students participated in the 2019 CCSC Mid-South Programming Contest held on April 12 at the University of Arkansas, Little Rock. 2019 CS Research Symposium and Career Day The 15th Annual Computer Science Research Symposium and Career Day was held on Friday, April 12 in the Michael D. Rose Theatre. Sayma Akther Wins 1st Place at Student Research Forum Doctoral student Sayma Akther took 1st place in the Math and Computer Science category at the UofM's 31st Annual Student Research Forum held on March 25. Mid-South Student Hackathon The inaugural Mid-South Student Hackathon was held on March 8-9 at the FedEx Institute of Technology. Prof. Wang Awarded NIST Grant for City of Memphis Project Prof. Lan Wang is on a team that was awarded a $418k grant from the Public Safety Communications Research Division of NIST to work with the City of Memphis to map building interiors for first responders. 2018 Assistant Professor Position Available (Supported by IIS) The Department is seeking candidates for an Assistant Professor position beginning Fall 2019. The candidate's research will be jointly supported by the Department of Computer Science and the Institute of Intelligent Systems (IIS). ACM Student Chapter Receives Support from IP The Department's ACM student chapter has received a $300 gift from the University of Memphis Ambassadors program at International Paper. Paper Accepted at AAAI 2019 Graduate student Maminur Islam has had a paper accepted to AAAI 2019, a premier conference for AI. Undergraduates Win StartCo Event Undergraduates Kareem Dasilva and Brandon Ellis were on a team that placed 1st among five teams at the StartCo 48 Hours Launch Competition on Sunday, Nov. 11. Undergraduates Place 1st at ACM ICPC Local Site A team of three Computer Science undergraduates participated in the ACM International Collegiate Programming Contest on Nov. 3, placing 1st at the local site. MD2K Awarded $2M in Grants from NSF and NIH The Center of Excellence for Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge (MD2K), now in its fifth year, has landed two grants totaling $2 million that will enable the center to enhance its software infrastructure, and also join the effort to curb opioid abuse. Multiple Assistant Professor Positions Available The Department is seeking candidates for multiple Assistant Professor positions beginning Fall 2019. Fifth Annual MD2K Meeting The fifth annual meeting for the NIH-funded MD2K Center of Excellence was held at the FedEx Institute of Technology and Shelby Farms Park on Oct. 1-2. BDPA Students Attend National Conference Nine students from the Memphis chapter of Black Data Processing Associates qualified to attend the annual BDPA National Conference in New Orleans in August. PhD Student Featured on News Channel 3 PhD student Jamal Mosakheil was interviewed on News Channel 3 on how to avoid the growing number of phishing emails. CfIA to Host Mid-South Cybersecurity Summit The Center for Information Assurance will host the 11th Annual Mid-South Cybersecurity Summit at the FedEx Institute of Technology on Friday, Oct. 5. CS Faculty Honored at CAS Meeting Four CS faculty were recognized at the College of Arts and Sciences faculty meeting on Thursday, Aug. 23. Best Student Paper Nomination at FLAIRS-31 PhD student Nabin Maharjan has a paper nominated for the Best Student Paper Award at the 31st International Florida Artificial Intelligence Research Society Conference (FLAIRS-31). MD2K Organizes mHealth Tech Showcase at NIH The MD2K Center for Excellence, under the direction of Prof. Santosh Kumar, organized a well-attended mHealth Technology Showcase at the National Institutes of Health campus on June 4. Amazon Alexa Blog Post by Alumnus Steve Ash Steve Ash (PhD 2017, MS 2012) cowrote a recent Amazon Alexa blog post about the work he's doing as a senior machine learning engineer in the Amazon Web Services AI organization. July Talks by Prof. Dasgupta Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta gave several invited talks in July. Profs. Rus and Fleming Awarded $759K NSF Grant Profs. Vasile Rus and Scott Fleming have been awarded a three-year, $759,136 grant from the National Science Foundation. Prof. Dasgupta Gives Invited Talk at MIT Workshop Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta was a guest speaker on June 27 at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's 2018 Professional Development Summer Workshop on Applied Cybersecurity. Prof. Dasgupta on WMC Action News 5 Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta, director of the Center for Information Assurance, was interviewed on WMC Action News 5 about the upcoming Cyber Ambassadors Tech Camp. Profs. Watson and Daigle Receive Early Career Research Award Profs. Thomas Watson and Bernie Daigle, Jr., have been selected as recipients of the 2018 Early Career Research Award from the U of M College of Arts and Sciences. 2018 Summer Camps The Department will offer two week-long day camps for pre-college students this summer. Students Accepted to 2018 CRA-Women Grad Cohort Workshop Six Computer Science PhD students were accepted to the 2018 CRA-Women Grad Cohort Workshop. Prof. Dasgupta Interviewed on WREG Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta, director of the Center for Information Assurance, was interviewed on WREG News Channel 3 about the recent TNReady testing issues. U of M Team Wins DoE Cyber Defense Competition A team of U of M undergraduates took first place in the Department of Energy Cyber Defense Competition held at Oak Ridge National Lab on April 6-7. Upcoming Data Science Workshops The Department will hold three series of workshops on using Python for data analytics, data science, and machine learning this year. 14th Annual CS Research Day Computer Science faculty and students gathered on Friday, March 23 in the University Center Memphis Room to view presentations and posters from 18 participants in a variety of exciting research areas. Austin Henley Accepts Tenure-Track Position at UT Knoxville Doctoral student Austin Henley has accepted a tenure-track faculty position at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. Spring 2018 Newsletter The Spring 2018 CS Newsletter is now available! New U.S. Patent by Prof. Dasgupta Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta has been awarded U.S. Patent No. 9,912,657 for an "Adaptive multi-factor authentication system." Former APCS Student Receives Sedgwick MVP Award Former M.S. Applied Computer Science student Charles Lancaster, Jr. has received the 2017 Sedgwick Most Valued Performer Award. CfIA Hosts Meeting for Raymond James Executive Kishen Sridharan, an executive from Raymond James, visited the U of M on Feb. 23 to meet with cybersecurity faculty, staff, and students. New StudyInternational Editorial StudyInternational.com has published a new editorial on the Department. Fall 2017 Software Engineering Showcase At the end of last fall semester, undergraduate students in Dr. James Yu's Software Engineering class displayed their semester projects. Invited Talks by Prof. Shiva Prof. Sajjan Shiva recently gave two invited international talks. Best Paper Award at ICISS 2017 Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta received a Best Paper (Honorable Mention) award at ICISS 2017, the 13th International Conference on Information Systems Security held Dec. 16-20 at IIT Bombay. Winter 2017-18 Newsletter The Winter 2017-18 CS Newsletter is now available! 2017 Recent Publications from Prof. Dasgupta Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta has recently had three research papers accepted or published in leading journals. Data Science in Python Workshop We will host a Data Science & Analytics in Python workshop from Dec. 8-10. Instructor Position Available The Department is seeking candidates for an Instructor position. Paper and Tutorial Accepted at AAAI-18 Prof. Deepak Venugopal's lab had a paper and tutorial accepted at AAAI-18, the 32nd Conference on Artificial Intelligence sponsored by the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence. Undergraduates Compete in ACM Programming Contest Our undergraduate student team Memphoes placed placed 5th out of 14 teams at the UT Martin site of the ACM Mid-Central USA Programming Contest 2017 on Nov. 4. Student Team Wins Regional Cyber Defense Competition A team of students from the Center for Information Assurance won 1st place in the CANSec Student Cyber-Defense Competition on Oct. 29 at the Missouri University of Science and Technology in Rolla, Missouri. 10th Annual Mid-South Cyber Security Summit The Center for Information Assurance hosted the 10th annual Mid-South Cyber Security Summit at the FedEx Institute of Technology on Oct. 12. UofM to Host MD2K Meeting on Oct. 24-25 The fourth annual meeting for the NIH-funded MD2K Center of Excellence will be held at the FedEx Institute of Technology on Oct. 24-25. CS Department Ranked Nationally The Department was ranked 80th in the nation among 173 doctoral computer science programs, according to a recent study. CfIA Receives New Cyber Security Education Grant The Center for Information Assurance has been awarded a $206K CAE Cyber Security Workforce Education Grant to develop interactive, hands-on exercises to integrate into cyber security curricula. New Text on User Authentication by Prof. Dasgupta Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta has had a new textbook entitled Advances in User Authentication published through Springer-Verlag. Prof. Dasgupta Gives Keynote Talk in Poland Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta gave the keynote talk at MMM-ACNS 2017, the 7th International Conference on Mathematical Methods, Models, and Architectures for Computer Network Security. Prof. Santosh Kumar Is Co-Editor of New mHealth Text Prof. Santosh Kumar together with two MD2K investigators (Prof. Jim Rehg from Georgia Tech and Prof. Susan Murphy from University of Michigan) are editors of Mobile Health: Sensors, Analytic Methods, and Applications, a textbook on mHealth released recently by Springer. MD2K Receives $13.8M IARPA Contract Under the direction of Prof. Santosh Kumar, the MD2K Center of Excellence has received a new $13.8M contract from the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity (IARPA). Prof. Venugopal Has Paper Accepted at IJCAI Prof. Deepak Venugopal has had a paper accepted at IJCAI 2017, the International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence. Tigers Tech Expedition Our ACM student chapter held a 5-weekend "Tigers Tech Expedition" camp in April and May for middle-schoolers, mostly from Orange Mound and Binghampton. Prof. Watson Has Paper Accepted at FOCS Prof. Thomas Watson has had a paper accepted at FOCS 2017, the 58th Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science. 2017 Creative Game Design Camp We hosted our third annual Creative Game Design Camp for high school students from July 10-14. 2017 GenCyber Boot Camps The Center for Information Assurance held two successful cyber security boot camps for middle- and high-school students this June. Stan Franklin Featured on NBC News Professor Emeritus Stan Franklin was featured in a recent artificial intelligence article on NBC News. Prof. Venugopal Awarded Gift from Adobe Research Prof. Deepak Venugopal has been awarded funding from Adobe Research Labs. Instructor Position Available Applications are invited for an instructor position beginning Fall 2017. CfIA Featured on Local 24 News The Center for Information Assurance was featured on two recent Local 24 News stories about cyber security. Lyndsey Rush Wins Dean's Outstanding Employee Award Administrative secretary Lyndsey Rush has received the 2017 Dean's Outstanding Employee Award from the College of Arts and Sciences. 2017 DoD Information Assurance Scholarship Program The Department of Defense is seeking rising junior and senior undergraduate (third and fourth year) and graduate/doctoral students who are interested in full-ride scholarships for concentrated studies in information assurance. Prof. Daigle Receives ARL Grant Prof. Bernie J. Daigle, Jr., affiliate faculty with the Biology Department, has been awarded a $485K research grant from the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. CS Students Win at University Research Forum Five Computer Science students received awards at the UofM's 29th Annual Student Research Forum held on March 27. Malasri Receives Teaching Award Instructor Kriangsiri Malasri has been selected as a recipient of the 2017 Alumni Association Distinguished Teaching Award. Tigers Tech Expedition Alumnus Herve Aniglo and community partner Meka Egwuekwe were featured on WREG News Channel 3 this week speaking about the upcoming Tigers Tech Expedition camp. CAST and DRONES Research Cluster Grants Several CS faculty have received research grants under the CAST and DRONES Research Clusters at the UofM. Interdisciplinary Innovations Awards Profs. Dipankar Dasgupta and Lan Wang have received two Interdisciplinary Innovations Awards from the UofM Division of Research and Innovation. Online Cyber Security Course Featured on WMC Action News 5 Carolyn Butler from the Center for Information Assurance was recently featured on WMC Action News 5 to talk about an upcoming free online course. 2017 CS Research Day Winners Congratulations to the winners of the oral and poster presentations at the 13th Annual Computer Science Research Day. NSA Codebreaker Challenge Featured on WMC Action News 5 Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta, director of the Center for Information Assurance, and undergraduate student Berkeley Willis were featured on WMC Action News 5 to talk about our recent strong showing in the 2016 NSA Codebreaker Challenge. New Grants for Profs. Watson and Venugopal Prof. Thomas Watson and Prof. Deepak Venugopal have been awarded new research grants. Winter 2017 Newsletter The Winter 2017 Newsletter is now available. Prof. Dasgupta Featured on Interview with David Fogel Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta was recently featured in an interview with Dr. David Fogel, past president of the IEEE Computational Intelligence Society and current co-general chair of IEEE SSCI 2017. Spring 2017 New Faculty The Department is pleased to welcome Dr. Kan Yang as a tenure-track Assistant Professor. Student Team Places in NSA Codebreaker Challenge A team of students from the Center for Information Assurance placed 11th nationwide in the 2016 NSA Codebreaker Challenge. Prof. Wang Receives U.S. Patent Department chair Prof. Lan Wang has been awarded a U.S. patent for her work on a new Forwarding Information Base (FIB) aggregation algorithm. Xiaoshan Cai Awarded Amazon Subterranean Delivery Patent Alumnus Xiaoshan Cai (BS 2010) has been awarded a U.S. patent for his work at Amazon on a subterranean delivery system. Students Accepted to 2017 CRA-Women Grad Cohort Workshop Several Computer Science graduate students have been accepted to the 2017 CRA-Women Grad Cohort Workshop. 2016 Kareem Dasilva Wins 2016 BDPA App Showcase Undergraduate student Kareem Dasilva won the 2016 National BDPA Mobile App Showcase. Paper Accepted at ACM CHI 2017 PhD student Austin Henley, Prof. Scott Fleming, and BS/MS alumna Maria Luong have had a paper accepted at ACM CHI 2017. 2017-18 Scholarship Applications Now Open Scholarship applications for the 2017-18 academic year are now open through the Tiger Scholarship Manager system. MD2K Featured as Cover Story on MIT Technology Review The MD2K project is currently featured as a top story on MIT Technology Review. Prof. Dasgupta Featured on FOX13 Memphis Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta, director of the Center for Information Assurance, was featured on a Nov. 22 FOX13 Memphis news story about cell phone privacy concerns. CfIA Student Highlights 2016 Undergraduate and graduate students in the Center for Information Assurance have achieved several notable successes in 2016. igniteCS Grant from Google Undergraduates Herve Aniglo and Kareem Dasilva have received a $10K grant from Google's igniteCS program to hold a drone programming camp starting in April 2017. Tennessee Higher Education Commission Grant The Department will be involved in a $75K 2017 Improving Teacher Quality grant from the Tennessee Higher Education Commission to develop online CS education modules for middle school students. FSE 2016 Paper Receives ACM SIGSOFT Award PhD student Austin Henley and Prof. Scott Fleming are authors on a paper that received the ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper Award (DPA) at FSE 2016. Department Hosts Python Data Science Workshop From Oct. 14-16, the Department hosted a workshop on Python programming for data science. UofM Will Share $3M DHS/FEMA Cyber Security Grant The National Cybersecurity Preparedness Consortium (NCPC), of which the UofM's Center for Information Assurance (CfIA) is a core member, has been awarded a $3M grant from DHS/FEMA to develop and deliver cyber security training as part of the Continuing Training Grants (CTG) program. Two Papers Accepted at COLING 2016 Prof. Deepak Venugopal has had two papers accepted at COLING 2016, one of the premier conferences on natural language processing. UofM to Lead $4M NSF Cyberinfrastructure Project Prof. Santosh Kumar is the PI on a new $4M data cyberinfrastructure grant from NSF. Honorable Mention at ACM UbiComp 2016 PhD student Nazir Saleheen received an Honorable Mention at ACM UbiComp 2016. Best Paper Award at VL/HCC 2016 PhD student Austin Henley and Prof. Scott Fleming won the Best Paper Award at VL/HCC 2016. CS Faculty Recognized at UofM General Faculty Meeting Three Computer Science faculty were recognized at the UofM general faculty meeting held on August 18. Fall 2016 New Faculty The Department is welcoming three new faculty members for the Fall 2016 semester. Papers Accepted at CHI, FSE, ICML, UAI, UbiComp The Department's students and faculty have had papers accepted at several top-tier conferences this year. Names in the News: Prof. Santosh Kumar Prof. Santosh Kumar has had his work with the mHealth Systems Lab featured in several recent news articles. Prof. Dasgupta on WMC Action News 5 Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta was featured on a WMC Action News 5 segment this morning, publicizing the upcoming GenCyber Boot Camp for middle-school students. Spring 2016 CS Newsletter The Spring 2016 CS Newsletter is now available! 2016 Summer Camps The Department will be hosting several activities this summer for middle and high school students. Prof. Lu Receives Early Career Research Award Prof. Zhuo Lu has been selected as a recipient of the 2016 Early Career Research Award from the UofM College of Arts and Sciences. Strengthening Communities Grant with CodeCrew The Department has been awarded a Strengthening Communities Initiative capacity building grant with community partner CodeCrew to develop a game design curriculum for high school students. Undergraduate Herve Aniglo Wins AMIS techUp! Competition Undergraduate student Herve Aniglo won the Association for Management Information Systems (AMIS) 1st Annual techUP! Competition, held on April 9 at the UofM's Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Instructor Position Available The Department is seeking applicants for an Instructor of Computer Science position. The instructor will teach undergraduate/graduate courses, participate in curriculum development and improvement, and advise students. 2016 CS Research Day Congratulations to the winners of the oral and poster presentations at the 12th Annual Computer Science Research Day. CS Students Win at University Research Forum Computer Science students have continued the tradition of doing very well in this year's University Research Forum, winning both 1st and 2nd place in the Math and Computer Science poster session. Undergraduate Student Success in Cyber Security Research The Center for Information Assurance (CfIA) at the University of Memphis, under the leadership of Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta, is at the forefront of cyber security research, education, and outreach in the state of Tennessee and the Mid-South region. Research Assistant Professor Position Available The Department has an opening for a non-tenure track Research Assistant Professor with responsibilities for conducting research and developing research proposals in the area of information assurance and cyber security and also engaging in collaborative efforts. Prof. Dasgupta Featured on FOX13 Memphis Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta, director of the Center for Information Assurance, was featured on a Feb. 19 FOX13 Memphis news story about security threats in mobile software. Intel Visiting Campus on Feb. 26 Intel Corp. will be visiting campus on Feb. 26 to interview candidates for internship positions. Positions are available at bachelor's, master's, and doctoral levels. Fall 2015 CS Newsletter The Fall 2015 CS Newsletter is now available! 2015 Prof. Rus Wins Best Paper Award at ICSLE 2015 Prof. Vasile Rus and postdoc Dr. Dan Stefanescu won the Best Paper Award at the 2nd International Conference on Smart Learning Environments (ICSLE 2015) for their paper entitled "Towards Non-Intrusive Assessment in Dialogue-based Intelligent Tutoring Systems." Outreach Events Attract Local Students The Department recently held several large outreach events for local students: a reception for newly-admitted freshmen, the annual CS Open House, a 100 Girls of Code workshop, and an Hour of Code event. CS Faculty Awarded CAST Cyber Security Grants Several CS faculty have received research grants from the FedEx Institute of Technology's Cluster to Advance cyber Security and Testing (CAST), an interdisciplinary group of campus experts on cyber security and systems testing. CfIA Receives Cyber Security Training Grant from FEMA The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded a 2015 Continuing Training Grant of $3 million for cyber security training to the National Cybersecurity Preparedness Consortium (NCPC). The project will be led by the University of Arkansas Criminal Justice Institute; the University of Memphis Center for Information Assurance (CfIA) will collaborate on the project as a core member of the consortium. Student Team Wins 2nd Place at Cyber Defense Competition A team of four Computer Science students recently won second place in the prestigious CANSec Cyber Defense Competition, held in Little Rock on Oct. 24. Undergraduates Win NSBE Hackathon Undergraduate students Herve Aniglo and Kareem Dasilva received 1st place in the first annual hackathon at the National Society of Black Engineers Region 3 Fall Regional Conference. CS Alumnus Tim Whitehorn to Speak at Entrepreneurs Lunch Tim Whitehorn, an alumnus of the Department's undergraduate program, will speak at the Crews Center for Entrepreneurship's lunch on Wed., Oct. 28. CS Names in the News Prof. Santosh Kumar and alumnus Dr. Sidney D'Mello were recently featured in online news articles. mHealth Lab Has Three Papers Accepted at UbiComp The Mobile Health Systems Lab has had three full papers accepted to this year's prestigious ACM UbiComp conference. Prof. Kumar Named Chair of Excellence Prof. Santosh Kumar has been named the Lillian & Morrie Moss Chair of Excellence in Computer Science. Authorized by the Tennessee General Assembly in March, this is the first state-endowed chair of excellence in computer science to be established in Tennessee. Over $1.8M in New Grants for 2015 The Department has about $1.87 million in new grant funding for the 2015 academic year. CS Team Wins SemEval-2015 Semantic Textual Similarity Competition A team from Prof. Vasile Rus's Language and Information Processing Lab has won the semantic textual similarity competition at SemEval-2015, the premier forum for semantic evaluation. Creative Game Design Camp Attracts Local High School Students The Department held its first Creative Game Design Camp from June 1-5. UofM Partners with 100 Girls of Code The UofM has become an official chapter of 100 Girls of Code, a national organization started by the Tennessee Code Academy that aims to introduce more young women to computer science and engineering from an early age. CS Research Day Winners Winners for the 11th annual Computer Science Research Day held on April 3 have been announced. Prof. Fleming Receives Early Career Research Award Prof. Scott Fleming has been selected as a recipient of the 2015-2016 Early Career Research Award from the UofM College of Arts and Sciences. Undergraduates Participate in CCSC Mid-South Programming Contest The UofM sent two teams of undergraduate students to the CCSC Mid-South programming contest held at Hendrix College on April 10. CS Students Win at University Research Forum Ph.D. candidates Abhijit Nag and Daqing Yun received 1st and 2nd place, respectively, in the Math/Computer Science category of the poster presentation at the UofM's 27th Annual Student Research Forum held on March 30. UofM Receives Cyber Defense Research Designation The National Security Agency and the Department of Homeland Security have designated the University of Memphis as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Research (CAE/R) through academic year 2021. Prof. Kumar Helping Shape Presidential Initiative Prof. Santosh Kumar is playing a key role in President Obama's recently announced Precision Medicine Initiative. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/16/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.