Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Programs Carroll School of Management Graduate Programs Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Carroll School of Management Boston College’s Carroll School of Management, Graduate Programs are recognized for offering innovative programs uniquely suited to today’s challenging management environment. The School enrolls approximately 900 students in five highly regarded degree programs: the Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.), emphasizing hands-on, group learning and a global outlook; the Master of Science in Accounting (M.S.) providing students with the advanced quantitative tools and understanding of the important role of accounting in business; the Master of Science in Finance (M.S.), a rigorous ten-course curriculum providing advanced financial skills; the Ph.D. in Management with a concentration in Finance; the Ph.D. in Management with a concentration in Organization Studies; and the Ph.D. in Accounting, offering doctoral-level education for individuals interested in research and teaching. The Carroll School of Management, Graduate Programs have developed many exciting options that enable students to individualize their management education including several dual degree programs. Among those options are the Master of Business Administration/ Master of Science in Finance (M.B.A./M.S. in Finance); the Master of Business Administration/Juris Doctor (M.B.A./J.D.); and the Master of Business Administration/Master of Social Work (M.B.A./M.S.W.). CSOM Courses CSOM Faculty CSOM Website Master of Business Administration Programs Master of Science Programs Doctor of Philosophy Programs Dual Degree Programs Admission Information Financial Assistance Career Development, Accreditation, and More Information Master of Business Administration Print Open All Close All Full-Time M.B.A. Full-Time M.B.A. For today’s complex business environment, companies and organizations actively seek individuals who possess both highly developed management skills and advanced training in a specific discipline. An M.B.A. from Boston College offers you the skills and experience you need for an impactful career. Our Full-Time M.B.A. Program combines carefully sequenced courses with a variety of experiential learning components. Summer and academic year internships provide opportunities to apply classroom learning directly to professional practice. The M.B.A. prepares you to become a distinguished leader in business, acquire the tools employers demand from our world-class faculty, and connect with a powerful network of leaders and innovators at Boston College. Requirements and Schedule In the first year, students progress through the core curriculum as a cohort, developing a broad foundation of business knowledge and capabilities while forming meaningful connections with classmates. The second year of the program allows you to strengthen your skills in functional disciplines of your choice. Through the pursuit of elective courses, you can ready yourself for success in your desired field. The Carroll School is committed to instilling a strong sense of community service in its students. In an effort to align this commitment with the Program, all M.B.A. students must fulfill a requirement of 20 hours of service to others through meaningful work as volunteers. Full-Time M.B.A. students should plan on academic sessions from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday during the first year of study. Second year elective courses are taught in the late afternoon and evening, and full-time students take their electives with Part-time Program students whose participation adds a wider range of knowledge and experience to class discussions and projects. Most classes meet once a week from 7:00 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. during the academic year, with a limited number meeting from 4:30 p.m. to 6:50 p.m. For current course listings and schedules, visit Course Information and Schedule. Full-Time Program Curriculum BZAN7703 Managerial Statistics ACCT7713 Accounting MGMT771 Managing People and Organizations OPER7716 Data Analytics 1: Model Building MKTG7720 Marketing ISYS7720 Data Analytics 2: Management and Data Skills MFIN7701 Economics MFIN7722 Financial Management MGMT7730 Strategic Management ISYS7730 Data Analytics 3: In Practice OPER7720 Operations Management GSOM7705/GSOM7706 Professional Development Workshop I MGMT7760 Thinking Strategically 11 Electives Part-Time M.B.A. Part-Time M.B.A. As a working professional, the Part-Time M.B.A. Program at Boston College offers you the flexibility you need to earn your degree while advancing your career. And you benefit from the opportunity to apply what you learn in the Program directly to your work. As a Part-Time M.B.A. student, you develop managerial, analytical, and practical management skills through the completion of a strong set of core courses that emphasize experiential learning. The program attracts a diverse mix of highly motivated individuals from the vibrant and diverse regional business community, helping you grow your network as you develop and learn new skills. Requirements and Schedule The Part-time program is self-paced. Students generally take two courses in the fall and spring semesters, but may take additional courses during the summer. Evening students must complete 57 credits of course work as well as 20 hours of community service. Most Part-time MBA program classes meet once a week from 7:00 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. during the academic year, with a limited number meeting from 4:30 p.m. to 6:50 p.m. Summer courses meet twice a week from 6:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. Part-time MBA students typically complete their degrees within four years. For current course listings and schedules, visit Course Information and Schedule. Part-Time Program Curriculum OPER7704 Economics MGMT7709 Managing People and Organizations ACCT770 Accounting ISYS7700 Data Analytics 2: Management & Data Skills MFIN7704 Financial Management MKTG7700 Marketing OPER7706 Data Analytics 1: Model Building ISYS7705 Data Analytics 3: Data Analytics in Practice OPER7700 Operations Management MGMT7710 Strategic Management 9 Electives Advanced Standing and Equivalency for Graduate Degrees (M.B.A.) Advanced Standing and Equivalency for Graduate Degrees (M.B.A.) M.B.A. students may be eligible to waive courses based upon prior coursework and/or professional certifications (such as CPA or CFA). Waiver policies vary according to program. Advanced Standing Credit: Students may waive a class and will also reduce the overall credit requirement for the degree. Equivalency: Students may waive a class but will be required to replace it with an elective. Equivalency applies to core courses only. Transfer Credit: Under certain circumstances, students may receive approval to take graduate courses at other AACSB-accredited colleges or universities. Grades received for transferred courses are not calculated into the student’s Boston College GPA. M.B.A. Part-Time All students accepted into the part-time M.B.A. program will be evaluated to determine their eligibility for Advanced Standing Credit. If not included in their application materials, students may be required to provide official transcripts and other relevant course information necessary to facilitate the review of their academic record. Shortly after receipt of their acceptance letter, students will receive notification of their eligibility to waive courses. The maximum amount of Advanced Standing Credit that a Part-time M.B.A. student may receive is 15 credits. Advanced Standing Credit will only be granted for courses in which the student has earned a grade of “B” or better, at an accredited institution, within the five years prior to enrolling in the Boston College Part-time M.B.A. program. The combination of waived credits and transfer credits may never exceed 1/3 of the course requirements for the degree. Students who have recognized professional certifications (i.e., CPA, CFA) may receive Advanced Standing Credit. A copy of the exam results will be required. Once an accepted student has been notified of eligibility to waive a course(s), he/she must respond with his/her intent to accept the Advanced Standing Credit, in writing, no later than Drop/Add Deadline for the semester in which he/she is enrolling. Students may contest waiver decisions within 30 days of the date of the initial decision. Couse waivers will not be granted after this date. Once a student has accepted Advanced Standing Credit for a course, he/she may not take the course and receive credit. Professional experience alone will not make a student eligible to waive a course. Current Part-time M.B.A. students, who wish to take a course outside of the Carroll School of Management, must submit their request, in writing, at least 30 days prior to the start of the semester in which the student wishes to enroll in the outside course. Transfer credit will only be granted for courses related to the degree and is subject to approval by the Graduate Programs Office. Students must have completed a minimum of two semesters before they can submit a request to take a course outside of the Carroll School of Management. This includes courses taken through the Jesuit M.B.A. Network. Except under extenuating circumstances, students will not be approved for transfer credit if a comparable course is offered in the Carroll School of Management during the same academic year. Part-time M.B.A. students may cross register for one course each semester (not including Summer) at Boston University and Tufts, through the Consortium. Students interested in cross-registering for courses through the Consortium must first seek approval from the Graduate Programs Office and complete the necessary cross-registration forms, available through the University’s Office of Student Services (Lyons Hall). Per the Consortium agreement, tuition will be billed through the student’s Boston College account, at the Carroll School of Management’s tuition rate. Undergraduate Course Work Part-time M.B.A. students who have demonstrated mastery in a core subject area may receive Advanced Standing Credit for up to five courses (15 credits). Mastery typically entails either an undergraduate major in a core course area or at least two intermediate to advanced undergraduate courses with grades of B or higher. Students may only receive Advanced Standing Credit for core courses, based upon undergraduate coursework. Graduate and Professional Course Work Part-time M.B.A. students who have a prior graduate degree in a relevant field or have completed graduate management courses at other AACSB-accredited institutions may receive Advanced Standing Credit for a maximum of five courses (15 credits). Students may receive Advanced Standing Credit for core courses and elective courses, based upon graduate coursework. Full-Time M.B.A. Program Students accepted to the full-time M.B.A. program may apply to waive core courses based upon prior course work. If a full-time M.B.A. student is deemed eligible to waive a course, he/she will receive Equivalency. Equivalency requires the student to replace the waived course with an elective; therefore, it does not decrease the credit requirement for the degree. Full-time M.B.A. students who wish to be evaluated for course waiver eligibility must submit a Course Waiver Form. Students may be required to provide official transcripts and other relevant course information necessary to facilitate the review of their academic record. Students enrolled in the full-time M.B.A. program must maintain their full-time status for four continuous semesters (with the exception of students enrolled in approved dual degree programs outside of the Carroll School of Management). Full-time M.B.A. students may receive Equivalency for up to three core courses. Equivalency will only be granted for courses in which the student has earned a grade of “B” or better, at an accredited institution, within the five years prior to enrolling in the Boston College Part-time M.B.A. program. The combination of waived credits and transfer credits may never exceed 1/3 of the course requirements for the degree. Students who have recognized professional certifications (i.e., CPA, CFA) may receive Equivalency. A copy of the exam results will be required. Once an accepted student has been notified of eligibility to waive a course(s) and receive Equivalency, he/she must respond, in writing, his/her intent to accept the Equivalency no later than the drop/add deadline for the semester in which he/she is enrolling. Students may contest waiver decisions within 30 days of the date of the initial decision. Course waivers will not be granted after this date. Once a student has accepted Equivalency for a course, he/she may not take the course and receive credit. Professional experience alone will not make a student eligible to waive a course. Current full-time M.B.A. students who wish to take a course outside of the Carroll School of Management, must submit their request, in writing, at least 30 days prior to the start of the semester in which the student wishes to enroll in the outside course. Transfer credit will only be granted for courses related to the degree and is subject to approval by the Graduate Programs Office. Students must have completed a minimum of two semesters before they can submit a request to take a course outside of the Carroll School of Management. This includes courses taken through the Jesuit M.B.A. Network. Courses taken outside of Boston College will not reduce the student’s flat-rate M.B.A. tuition for that semester. Except under extenuating circumstances, students will not be approved for transfer credit if a comparable course is offered in the Carroll School of Management during the same academic year. Full-time M.B.A. students may cross register for one course each semester (not including Summer) at Boston University and Tufts, through the Consortium. Students interested in cross-registering for courses through the Consortium must first seek approval from the Graduate Programs Office and complete the necessary cross-registration forms, available through the University Office of Student Services (Lyons Hall). Per the Consortium agreement, tuition will be billed through the student’s Boston College account, at the Carroll School of Management’s tuition rate. Undergraduate Course Work Full-Time M.B.A. students who have demonstrated mastery in a core subject may be eligible for equivalency for up to five courses (15 credits). Mastery typically entails either an undergraduate major in a core course area or at least two intermediate to advanced undergraduate courses with grades of B or higher. Students may only receive Equivalency for core courses, based upon undergraduate coursework. Graduate and Professional Course Work Students who have a prior graduate degree in a relevant field or have completed graduate management courses at other AACSB-accredited institutions may be eligible for equivalency. The CPA and CFA certifications will make a student eligible for equivalency. Professional experience alone will not make a student eligible to waive a course. For more information, please contact the Office for Graduate Programs, at (617) 552-3773. Master of Science Programs Print Open All Close All M.S. in Accounting M.S. in Accounting The Master of Science in Accounting program at Boston College cultivates students’ analytical abilities and promotes an in-depth understanding of the role of accounting in the world at large. The Master of Science in Accounting prepares students to excel in the pursuit of their CPA and provides a strong foundation for a thriving career. The M.S. in Accounting program is only offered on a full-time basis. Required coursework is determined by faculty through the review of the student’s academic transcript. Curriculum The Master of Science in Accounting Program offers a flexible curriculum that is tailored to your academic background. Courses focus on concepts that can be practically applied to professional accounting practice, and you learn from an accomplished faculty possessing valuable experience in the industry. Upon completion of the Master of Science in Accounting Program, you will have a thorough understanding of the audit process. You will be proficient with firms’ strategic cost management and management control decisions. You will be proficient with respect to financial statement analysis. And you will gain an in-depth understanding of the role taxes play in business decision making. Each student receives a personalized course worksheet upon entering the Program that lists the specific courses you need to take to fulfill the Master of Science in Accounting degree. Completion of the Program requires a minimum of ten courses (30 credit hours) and at least six accounting classes, including the three Master of Science in Accounting core courses. In addition to the academic requirements, all M.S. in Accounting students must complete ten hours of Community Service to fulfill their degree requirements. Students are responsible for meeting the individual state requirements for taking the CPA exam. In some states, these requirements may result in additional courses. M.S. in Finance M.S. in Finance The Master of Science in Finance offers you a comprehensive curriculum grounded in fundamental economic principles to develop specialized knowledge and skills as well as insights into innovative methodologies. Two scheduling options are available. The full-time option allows you to complete the Master of Science in Finance in one full year of study, while the part-time option offers a part-time curriculum for students who wish to continue their careers. All Master of Science in Finance candidates must meet certain prerequisite requirements prior to entering the program. Curriculum The traditional 30-credit M.S. in Finance Program comprises seven core courses and three electives. All M.S. in Finance students first master the sophisticated framework of financial understanding, techniques, and analysis taught in Investments, Corporate Finance, Financial Econometrics, and Management of Financial Institutions, which are the prerequisites for subsequent core courses and all finance electives. Knowledge and skills acquired in the initial courses inform advanced discussions and exploration of innovative methodologies in Derivatives and Risk Management, Advanced Corporate Finance, and Active Portfolio Management. Learning is engineered to be cumulative and reinforcing. The Quantitative Track 30-credit M.S. in Finance Program comprises eight core courses and two electives. This track is STEM designated and provides M.S. in Finance students with a highly quantitative focus with an emphasis on financial analytics. The STEM designation will enable students graduating from the Quantitative Finance Track to gain vital career experience and bring quantitative skills to workplaces in Corporate Finance, Asset Management, and Investment Banking. In addition to these 30 credits, all M.S. in Finance students must complete 10 hours of Community Service to fulfill their degree requirements. The M.S. in Finance Program is designed to meet the varied needs of finance professionals. Most classes meet from 7:00 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. during the academic year, with a limited number meeting from 4:30 p.m. to 6:50 p.m. Summer term courses meet twice a week from 6:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. M.S. in Finance Program Options Cohort (Accelerated) Option Students are drawn from across the country and around the world to participate in the Carroll School’s accelerated M.S. in Finance Program, which can be completed in one full year of study. Students take four courses in the fall and spring terms and two courses in the summer term when they may also choose to pursue an internship. Students progress through the program as a cohort. Taking all courses together not only fosters exceptional camaraderie, but also creates a supportive network—one that continues long after the Program comes to an end. Self-Paced Option The self-paced option is designed to meet the needs of individuals who wish to continue in their careers while pursuing advanced study. While course enrollment is flexible, self-paced students typically complete the Program in twenty months by taking two courses in the fall, spring, and summer semesters respectively. M.S. in Finance Curriculum, Cohort Option Core Courses MFIN8801 Investments MFIN8807 Corporate Finance MFIN8820 Management of Financial Institutions MFIN8852 Financial Econometrics MFIN8860 Derivatives & Risk Analytics MFIN8881 Advanced Corporate Finance MFIN8803 Quantitative Portfolio Management Three electives: Any 6600- or 8800-level Finance elective M.S. in Finance Curriculum, Quantitative Track (available only as full-time cohort) Core Courses MFIN8801 Investments MFIN8807 Corporate Finance MFIN8820 Management of Financial Institutions MFIN8852 Financial Econometrics Four of the five following: MFIN8XXX Data Analytics (course number TBD) MFIN8803 Quantitative Portfolio Management MFIN6640 Finance Seminar: Simulation and Optimization in Finance MFIN8860 Derivatives and Risk Analytics MFIN8880 Fixed Income Analysis Two electives: Any 6600- or 8800-level Finance Elective M.S. in Finance Curriculum, Self-Paced Option Core Courses MFIN8801 Investments MFIN8807 Corporate Finance MFIN8820 Management of Financial Institutions MFIN8852 Financial Econometrics MFIN8860 Derivatives & Risk Management One of the following: MFIN8803 Active Portfolio Management MFIN8880 Fixed Income Analysis One of the following: MFIN8808 Financial Policy MFIN8881 Advanced Corporate Finance MFIN8821 Corporate Valuation and Restructuring Three electives: Any 6600- or 8800-level Finance elective Doctor of Philosophy Programs Print Open All Close All Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. students in accounting complete a five-year program that is based on a thorough grounding in fundamental economic principles and rigorous statistical skills. Students will develop an appreciation of the institutional details that characterize accounting research and will concentrate on developing skills in econometrics as well as contracting and capital markets theory. Course Requirements Accounting Ph.D. students complete a program of study that begins with coursework in accounting, quantitative methods, economics, and finance. Through seminar courses, students will become fluent on the existing state of research literature, appropriate research methods, and proper management of the publication process. Course requirements are typically satisfied in the first two years of the program. In additional to doctoral seminars, Ph.D. students will take courses in the departments of finance and economics and are encouraged to explore inter-disciplinary pursuits (visit the Ph.D. in Accounting website for more details). Comprehensive Examination A comprehensive examination will be administered at the conclusion of the second year in the program. Satisfactory performance on the exam marks the transition from coursework to full-time thesis research. Research Doctoral students engage early in the research process. The completion of a first-year paper, which can be a replication or an extension of a previous study, provides an early hands-on experience in research design, programming, data-management, and statistical analysis. In addition, students complete a second-year paper based on an original research idea, and submit a research proposal at the end of the third year. The proposal is the precursor to the dissertation: a substantial, significant, and original contribution to the field. Assistantships Doctoral Students at the Carroll School are expected to serve as research or teaching assistants throughout their studies. Typically, students will serve as research assistants for the first two years of the program and act as teaching/research assistants in the following years. In exchange, students receive full tuition remission and a stipend. Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Finance The Ph.D. program in Finance at Boston College is internationally known for a rigorous curriculum that combines theory with applied research and pedagogy. Finance faculty at Boston College are experts in their disciplines and globally acclaimed for their scholarship, research, and mentorship. In our collegial environment, students typically collaborate with one another and with faculty to produce groundbreaking research. The academic program begins with systematic, rigorous training in quantitative methods, economics, and finance. In addition, students complete a major research project, serve as research and teaching assistants, and write a doctoral dissertation. Graduates of the program are leaders in the field of finance who have the knowledge and analytical skills they need to conduct research and teach at the highest level. The Ph.D. Program contains five components: Course Requirements Research Paper Comprehensive Examination Dissertation Research/Teaching Requirements Each of these requirements is described below. Detailed standards for the Ph.D. candidate are published and provided to all students. Course Requirements Students complete a program of study that leads to competency in three areas: quantitative methods, economics, and finance. Ph.D. candidates in finance must complete four doctoral courses in quantitative methods, two in microeconomics, four in finance, and one in accounting. These requirements are typically satisfied in the first three years of the program (visit the Ph.D. in Finance website for details). In some cases, coursework completed prior to entering the program may be substituted for required courses. Research Paper Students are expected to engage in research early in the program. All students work as research assistants for fifteen hours per week for the first two years of the program. By May 31 of their third year, students are required to submit a research paper. A more detailed description of the research paper, its standards and criteria used to evaluate it is available from, maintained, and updated by the Ph.D. Committee. Comprehensive Examination Satisfactory performance on a written comprehensive examination marks the student’s transition from coursework to thesis research. The examination is intended to allow the student to demonstrate substantial knowledge of financial economics. The examination is taken within two months of the completion of the first year of the program. Dissertation The doctoral dissertation is expected to be a substantial, significant, and original contribution to knowledge. It is prepared under the guidance of a thesis committee of three or more faculty members selected by the candidate in consultation with his or her thesis advisor. Early in the process, the candidate submits a thesis proposal. The proposal is presented in a seminar to which the finance faculty and doctoral students are invited. The purpose of the presentation is to give the student an opportunity to hear the suggestions and comments of members of the Boston College finance community while the research plan is still fluid. A thesis-defense seminar, open to the Boston College community, is held when the research is completed. Student Support and Research/Teaching Requirement Doctoral students are offered financial support at a competitive rate. A student in good standing may receive this support for four years. Financial support beyond the fourth year is conditional on the student’s performance and may vary in amount. In return for this support, the student acts as a research assistant for the first two years of the program, then acts as a teaching assistant in the following years of the program. This generous level of support is based on the fact that students are expected to devote their full energies to the program during the entire calendar year, not just the academic year. Ph.D. in Organization Studies Ph.D. in Organization Studies Designed to prepare students for academic careers, the Ph.D. program in Organization Studies at Boston College is recognized worldwide for its rigorous curriculum and exceptional faculty who are leaders in their fields. The program emphasizes a strong foundation in organizational theory, research methods, and statistics. Students begin the program with a set of complementary courses in micro- and macro-organizational theory, qualitative and quantitative research methods, statistics, and teaching skills. In the third year, students complete a major empirical research project and teach a course of their own. Throughout the Ph.D. program, students pursue research on their own and in collaboration with faculty. All students are encouraged to deliver papers at national and international professional conferences, as well as to submit articles for publication in top-tier research journals. Our graduates emerge as creative, independent scholars who can craft and pursue their own research agendas. Ph.D. in Management with a Concentration in Organization Studies Curriculum Course Requirements Ph.D. students who have previous education in management take a total of 19 courses during the program; students without management education take two additional M.B.A. courses, for a total of 21 courses. All students begin the organization studies program with a set of complementary courses in micro- and macro-organizational theory, qualitative and quantitative research methods, statistics, and teaching skills. For course details, see Curriculum. Comprehensive Examination The comprehensive examination is given at the end of the second year. To pass the exam, students must demonstrate a substantial knowledge of theory and methods involved in the study of organizational behavior and theory. Research Project and Dissertation By the end of the third year, students complete a research paper demonstrating the ability to conduct innovative research in organizational studies. The culmination of the program is the dissertation: a substantial, significant, and original contribution to the body of knowledge in organizational studies that is prepared under the guidance of a dissertation committee of three faculty members. Assistantship Requirement Doctoral students at the Carroll School are expected to serve as research or teaching assistants throughout their studies. Typically, a student works as a research assistant for 15 hours a week during the first two years of the program, then teaches one course per semester or acts as a research assistant in the third and fourth years. In exchange, the Carroll School provides financial support for doctoral students in the form of a stipend and tuition remission. Dual Degree Programs The Carroll School of Management, Graduate Programs collaborate with other outstanding graduate schools and programs at Boston College to offer over highly regarded dual degree programs. Students are generally able to complete the requirements of a dual degree program in less time than it would take to pursue each program separately. Interested applicants must apply and be admitted to both schools involved with a program. Dual degree programs have varying requirements and, while most take three years to complete, program lengths vary from two to four years of full-time study. Students interested in dual degree programs must apply and be admitted to both the Carroll School of Management, Graduate Programs and the participating school within the University. Applicants should contact both admissions offices to learn about admission requirements, deadline dates, and appropriate entrance tests. Admission Information Read below for more information on how to apply. Print Open All Close All Master of Business Administration Master of Business Administration Boston College’s M.B.A. program welcomes applications from graduates of accredited colleges and universities. The Admissions Committee considers applicants with academic backgrounds from virtually all areas of study, including liberal arts, business administration, social sciences, physical sciences, engineering, and law. Courses in business administration or management are not required for admission to the M.B.A. program. However, students are expected to be proficient in communication skills and mathematics. In addition, all applicants are required to take either the GMAT or GRE. The Admissions Committee looks for evidence of sound scholarship and management potential. Work experience and academic excellence are significant criteria in their evaluation. With few exceptions, students enter the program after at least two years of full-time work experience. Leadership and community involvement are also important factors in admissions decisions. Additional information can be found at bc.edu/mba. Master of Science in Accounting Master of Science in Accounting The M.S. in Accounting Program welcomes applications from graduates of accredited colleges and universities. The Admissions Committee considers applicants with academic backgrounds from virtually all areas of study, including liberal arts, business administration, social sciences, physical sciences, engineering, and law. Courses in business administration or management are not required for admission to the M.S. in Accounting Program. All applicants are required to take either the GMAT or GRE. The Admissions Committee looks for evidence of superior intellectual ability, excellent communication and interpersonal skills, and the potential for a successful career in the accounting profession. Sound undergraduate scholarship, together with internship/work experience and leadership and community involvement, are significant criteria in their evaluation. Work or internship experience is not required to apply to the program; however, it can strengthen a candidate’s application. Additional information can be found at the M.S. in Accounting website. Master of Science in Finance Master of Science in Finance The M.S. in Finance Program welcomes applications from graduates of accredited colleges and universities who have a strong interest in finance. Applicants with undergraduate or graduate degrees in other subject areas are encouraged to apply early so that they will have the opportunity to fulfill prerequisites that may be required. The Admissions Committee focuses on evidence of strong academic and professional success in all aspects of the application. An applicant’s quantitative ability is carefully considered due to the rigorous nature of the curriculum. The Committee also considers leadership and community involvement factors in the admissions process. All applicants are required to take either the GMAT or GRE. Additional information can be found at the M.S. in Finance website. M.B.A. Dual Degrees: Master of Science in Finance or Master of Science in Accounting M.B.A. Dual Degrees: Master of Science in Finance or Master of Science in Accounting Students should be admitted to both the M.B.A. and M.S. in Finance or M.S. in Accounting programs to enter the Dual Degree program. The M.B.A./M.S. in Finance program is highly analytical, and an applicant’s quantitative skills are weighed heavily in the admission decision. Students are expected to be proficient in English and mathematics. All applicants are required to take either the GMAT or GRE. The M.B.A./M.S. in Accounting program is for individuals interested in careers in public accounting, financial analysis, or financial management in a corporate or not-for-profit environment. Students are expected to be proficient in English. All applicants are required to take either the GMAT or GRE. Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Finance Admission to the Ph.D. program in Finance is open to applicants who show evidence of strong intellectual abilities, a commitment to research and teaching, and previous preparation in an analytical field. Students are required to have demonstrated competence and basic knowledge of finance. A student entering the program without such a background may be required to take additional courses. The GMAT or GRE is required for admission. Ph.D. in Organization Studies Ph.D. in Organization Studies Admission to the Ph.D. program in Organization Studies is open to applicants who show evidence of strong intellectual capabilities, a commitment to research and teaching, and previous academic preparation in fields related to management. Students are required to have demonstrated competence in the functional areas of management. Applicants who have not already received an M.B.A. or have not completed the equivalent of the M.B.A. core curriculum prior to entering the program may be required to take additional courses. The GMAT or GRE is required for admission. Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Accounting Admission to the Ph.D. program in Accounting is open to applicants with outstanding potential for leadership and academic excellence. While notable for their individual achievements, competitive candidates will demonstrate a consistent record of taking initiative in their academic and professional pursuits, and aptitude for conducting research at its highest levels, and a desire to make an impact on the world. Applicants are required to take the GMAT or GRE. International Students International Students All applicants who completed their undergraduate course work outside the United States must have the equivalent of an American bachelor’s degree or American master’s degree (equivalency to be determined by the Graduate Dean of the School). In addition, all students whose first language is not English are required to submit TOEFL, PTE, IELTS, or Duolingo scores from within the past two years. This requirement is waived for applicants who have completed a four-year course of study or have been enrolled for the past two years in a college or university in the United States, Canada, Great Britain, Australia, or New Zealand. An official score report should be sent to Boston College, The Carroll School of Management, Graduate Programs, Carney Hall, 175, 140 Commonwealth Ave., Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3808, United States. Accepted international applicants must provide financial certification for two years for the M.B.A. Program and one year for the M.S. in Finance or M.S. in Accounting Program. Financial Assistance See below for more information on financial aid. Print Open All Close All Graduate Assistantships and Scholarships Graduate Assistantships and Scholarships The Carroll School of Management offers a range of graduate assistantships and scholarships to Full-Time M.B.A., M.S. in Finance and dual degree M.B.A./M.S. in Finance students. Assistantships and scholarships are merit-based awards and are made only at the time of admission. These awards range in value and are typically awarded to exceptionally strong candidates. These institutional awards are determined by committee and administered at the point of admission. NOTE: Applicants must indicate interest in receiving merit-based funding on the application. Graduate assistantships involve research or administrative duties in exchange for a stipend. Assistantships are generally 6 hours per week assignments. Assistantships are available to both domestic and international applicants, and can be offered in combination with academic scholarship awards. Scholarships are awarded on the basis of merit and vary in amount. Merit-based awards are made to new students at the time of admission. Students who receive a scholarship and/or assistantship during the first year of the M.B.A. program and maintain a cumulative grade point average of at least a 3.0 are eligible for consideration for continuing support during the second year, subject to performance evaluation by their supervisor. The M.S. in Accounting Program offers merit-based scholarships to selected admitted applicants. Awards are made only at the time of admission. Scholarships are available to both domestic and international applicants. All admitted applicants are automatically considered for an award and awardees typically show evidence of superior performance in their application materials. Ph.D. in Finance candidates, upon completion of any necessary prerequisite courses, receive full tuition remission and an annual stipend for up to five years of full-time study. In return, each candidate works as a research assistant the first two years and as either a research assistant or teaching assistant for the second two years. University-Administered Financial Aid University-Administered Financial Aid In addition to the assistantships and scholarships offered through the Carroll School of Management, Graduate Programs, the Office of Student Services offers a variety of programs to help students finance the potential for a successful career in the accounting profession. Sound undergraduate scholarship, together with internship/work experience and leadership and community involvement are significant criteria in their evaluation. Work or internship experience is not required to apply to the program; however, it can strengthen a candidate’s application. Additional information can be found at the Graduate and Law Financial Aid website. Career Development, Accreditation, and More Information Print Open All Close All Career Development Career Development The Office of Graduate Management Career Development supports students in achieving their career goals through placement initiatives, career coaching, recruiting, and other services. In addition, the office serves as a bridge to corporations through its outreach activities and links to Boston College’s worldwide alumni network. Specific services include the following: recruiting program, corporate presentations and informational sessions, interview preparation, resume books, corporate outreach, and other relevant Career Resources. Accreditation Accreditation The Carroll School of Management is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The School is also a member of the Graduate Management Admission Council (GMAC) and the New England Association of Graduate Admission Professionals. For More Information For More Information Prospective students should direct inquiries for the M.B.A., M.S. in Finance, M.S. in Accounting, or Ph.D. Programs to the Graduate Management Admissions Office at Boston College, Carney Hall, Room 175, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3808; telephone: 617-552-3920; fax: 617-552-8078; bc.edu/carroll. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College