Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Human Resources Human Resources Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Health & Well-being Menu Main Nav Health & Well-being How can we help you? Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Harvard Pilgrim Portal Programs and Services Overview Cancer and Chronic Illness Elder Caregiving Faculty/Staff Assistance Program Family Caregiving Meditation & Mindfulness Smoking Cessation Vision Van Weight Watchers Weekly Wellness Newsletter Savory Living Active Living Events How can we help you? Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Meditation & Mindfulness Home Programs and Services Meditation & Mindfulness Programs and Services Cancer and Chronic Illness Elder Caregiving Faculty/Staff Assistance Program Family Caregiving Meditation & Mindfulness Smoking Cessation Vision Van Weight Watchers Weekly Wellness Newsletter Savory Living Meditation and Mindfulness The pace and demands of our high-tech, multi-tasking, work-focused society regularly activate the body’s stress response and keep us in overdrive much of the time—with and without our awareness. To combat this, Healthy You and Harvard Pilgrim Health Care offer meditation and mindfulness classes, which emphasize slowing down and uncritically focusing our attention on one thing at a time. The health benefits are many: lowered heart rate, lowered blood pressure, relaxed body, calm mind, and improved focus. Open-Ended Weekly Meditation Groups (Online) These groups provide basic instruction and regular opportunity to practice meditation/mindfulness. Participants benefit from insight and support to establish a home practice. Participants are not required to attend every session. Shortly before the meditation begins, log in to Zoom and on the homepage, click "Join a Meeting" (upper right-hand corner). Upon entering, there might be a small window that will pop up and say "Join with Computer Audio" or “Join with Device Audio,” click that button so you can hear the instructor. To sign up for a free Zoom account, visit the Zoom website. You will need to download and install Zoom launcher in order to join a video conference. Monday/Tuesday/Wednesday: Michael Connolly, 12:10 - 12:45 p.m., Zoom Session (https://bccte.zoom.us/j/9473863138) Thursday: Nina Farber, 12:10 - 12:30 p.m., Zoom Session (https://bccte.zoom.us/j/99714967843) Schedule is subject to change due to holidays, teaching schedules, vacations, etc. (email mconnolly@cambridgeconsulting.com with questions.) Harvard Pilgrim Mindfulness Programming (Online) Mind the Moment: An innovative mindfulness training program Every Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, experiment with short bursts of mindfulness instruction, followed by mini meditations, led by our team of expert instructors. All our guided mindfulness sessions allow attendees to interact with our instructors using Zoom’s “chat” feature. The Wednesday sessions, however, invite attendees to turn on their webcams in order to communicate directly with the instructors, for an even more interactive experience. Offered Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 8:30 to 9 a.m. ET. Join us using your computer or mobile device by visiting harvardpilgrim.org/mindfulness and check out our archive of back episodes on the Mind the Moment YouTube page. View videos of past presentations on meditation and mindfulness. Participant Feedback “This should be required! It was absolutely fantastic and needed for the modern workplace.” “Excellent instruction and programs.” “The mindfulness programming is wonderful and I know it is in high demand.” “The instructor was fantastic, welcomed emails, and followed up.” Back To Top Back To Top Human Resources 129 Lake Street Brighton Campus 617-552-3330 About Programs and Services Active Living Events Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College