Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Health and Medicine Date February 8, 2022 2022-02-08 Media Contact Corrie Pikul [email protected] 401-863-1862 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email In Medicaid managed care plans, minority group members report lesser care than white enrollees A study led by Brown University researchers found significant racial and ethnic disparities in patient care experience among enrollees of Medicaid managed care plans. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — To ensure equity in Medicaid managed care health coverage, there is a need for accurate, recent data on how plans perform for members of different racial and ethnic groups. When Brown University researchers analyzed data on care experiences stratified by racial and ethnic identity, they found that members of minority groups reported significantly worse care experiences compared with white enrollees. The disparities were largest when the groups were enrolled in the same Medicaid managed care plan. "Medicaid managed care plans have a responsibility to detect and reduce disparities in health care among their enrollees,” said senior author Dr. Amal Trivedi, a professor of medicine and of health services, policy and practice at Brown. “Our findings indicate that Medicaid plans should collect systematic data on racial and ethnic disparities in patient experiences, and then implement interventions and track progress in eliminating these disparities." Measuring care experiences is a way to assess how the plans are working for individual enrollees and include their perspectives, the researchers said. “What’s exciting about this study is that it incorporates the patient’s voice, through care experience measurements, to help researchers understand the barriers to access,” said lead study author Kevin Nguyen, an investigator in the Department of Health Services, Policy and Practice at the Brown School of Public Health. “It also assesses racial and ethnic disparities between different plans as well as within the same plan. This distinction has important implications for how such disparities are addressed.” The study was published in the February issue of Health Affairs. Managed care has become the dominant care delivery model for Medicaid enrollees, with nearly 70% of all beneficiaries enrolled in a comprehensive managed care plan in 2018. Most states collect experience-of-care metrics, Nguyen said, but the reports using this data tend to be at the plan or state level. The authors say their study is the first to assess within- and between-plan disparities in a multi-state sample of Medicaid managed care enrollees since the implementation of the Affordable Care Act in 2010. To conduct the analysis, the researchers pooled five years of data from the Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems Health Plan Survey, which assesses patient experience of care and is submitted annually by state Medicaid agencies and individual Medicaid managed care plans. They merged this information with Medicaid managed care enrollment reports. Their sample consisted of 2014 to 2018 data on 242,274 nonelderly Medicaid managed care enrollees in 37 states. They measured experience of care on a 0-100 point scale in four areas: access to needed care, access to a personal doctor, timely access to checkup or routine care, and timely access to specialty care. The researchers found that compared with white enrollees, Black enrollees in the same plan consistently reported worse experiences of care, ranging from 1.2 percentage points less for access to needed care and 4.5 percentage points less for access to a personal doctor. There were significant within-plan disparities between white and Hispanic or Latino enrollees for all outcomes except access to needed care. Compared with white enrollees, Asian American, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander enrollees within the same plan reported significantly worse experiences of care on all metrics, ranging between 8.6 percentage points less for access to a personal doctor and 16.8 percentage points less for timely access to specialty care. “The magnitude of disparity between white enrollees and Asian American, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander enrollees was quite striking,” Nguyen said. However, those results align with other surveys of Medicaid and Medicare beneficiaries, he said. Previous studies have suggested that different experiences of care may be driven by discrimination, availability of culturally inclusive providers or linguistic barriers to accessing care; some studies have also suggested that there might be differential expectations of care among this group of in a way that informs their ratings and responses. “All of these factors are working together concurrently, and it’s important to assess why they’re happening,” he said. “ Our findings indicate that Medicaid plans should collect systematic data on racial and ethnic disparities in patient experiences, and then implement interventions and track progress in eliminating these disparities. ” Dr. Amal Trivedi Brown University Professor of Medicine; Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice The researchers hope that this data, and future studies like this, can be used to inform interventions to reduce disparities and improve care equity among enrollees. For example, Nguyen said, between-plan disparities suggest that racial and ethnic minorities are being disproportionately enrolled in lower-quality plans, and efforts should be made to ensure they have access to better plans. Because the study showed the greatest disparities within the same plans, that suggests that there is differential treatment of racial and ethnic minorities within those plans. “To address within-plan disparities, for example, a plan might want to directly target services to people from a racial or ethnic minority group,” Nguyen said. Notably, Nguyen said, in plans with higher concentrations of Asian American, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander enrollees, or of Hispanic or Latino enrollees, the magnitude of disparities was smaller for those groups of enrollees. While this study didn’t specifically examine the mechanisms driving that result, the researchers suggested some plausible explanations could be that these plans are able to provide more targeted engagement or outreach to minority groups, or may develop provider networks that perform better for these enrollees. “These results warrant further exploration about what state- and plan-level strategies may lead to more equitable patient experience of care,” Nguyen said. Brown University researcher Ira B. Wilson and Anya Wallack of the University of Vermont also contributed to this study. Tags Research School of Public Health Related news: Health and Medicine Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers May 23, 2022 Elizabeth Samuels, an assistant professor at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and medical student Aneeqah Naeem argued for federal action supporting harm reduction centers such as those authorized in Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers Health and Medicine In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty May 16, 2022 Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the uncertainty of the future. Read Article Open details for In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Health and Medicine ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition May 3, 2022 The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 celebrated together at an in-person white coat ceremony that was held two years later than usual, but still felt timely. Read Article Open details for ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search In Medicaid managed care plans, minority group members report lesser care than white enrollees Open details for In Medicaid managed care plans, minority group members report lesser care than white enrollees Bookmark this Page