Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Connect Connect Visit Visit Apply Apply Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Admission Connect Connect Request Information Meet the Team Visit Campus Visit Campus Virtual Visits Perkins Comes to You Apply Apply Application Steps Application Submission Dates Degrees at a Glance International Students Affording Seminary Affording Seminary Scholarships Financial Literacy Bursar's Office Cost Summary Admit Portal ☰ Perkins School of Theology Perkins Admission Admit Portal Admit Portal Welcome to SMU Perkins! Congratulations on your admission to SMU | Perkins School of Theology! Below you will find important resources for your transition into the SMU community. Fall 2022 Enrollment Checklist - Admitted Students can use this document to take their next steps! Fall 2022 Class Schedule - Check out what classes will be available this semester! Important Dates - Stay up-to-date by checking the dates you should know going into class - NEW STUDENT ORIENTATION - DALLAS: AUGUST 19 (1-5pm CST) - HOUSTON-GALVESTON: AUGUST 29 (1-4pm CST) Financial Literacy Program (FLP) Canvas Course (Required) - Complete the 6-part FLP Saving Grace course (Canvas access granted upon enrollment) SMU Interactive Map - As an SMU student, you may want a review this interactive map to familiarize yourself with campus Barnes & Noble Bookstore - Buy textbooks, clothing and apparel, and much more The Bridwell Quarterly - News, events and features from the Bridwell Library SMU Bursar’s Office - Learn about payment deadlines, tuition costs, and contact information SMU Financial Aid - Learn about federal and private loan opportunities SMU Health Insurance - Learn about obtaining student health insurance Canvas Tutorial - Watch this tutorial to learn about the learning management system used throughout SMU Health History Form - Complete this form and send to the SMU Health Center Housing - Learn about housing opportunities on or around campus in Dallas and Houston Job Board - Learn about job opportunities in Dallas and Houston Parking and ID Services - Order parking pass, ID card, and free DART pass (Dallas students) SMU IT Help Desk - Get answers to questions about logging into or navigating my.smu.edu or Canvas UMC Release Form - United Methodist students must sign this form and return it to our registrar, Joe Monroy (jmonroy@smu.edu) Questions? Contact Stephen Bagby, Director of Admission Operations at 214-768-2139 or sbagby@smu.edu. An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share