Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links OUC Menu Main Nav OUC Contact Back Back Close People Our Work Overview Design Marketing News & Media Relations Photography Publications Social Media Guidelines Resources Social Media Fellows Social Fellows Application Humans of Boston College Humans of BC Nomination Videography Web Design & Development Digital Advertising Boston College Magazine For Journalists Overview Policies Names in the News BC Faculty Experts Lisa Sowle Cahill Andrea Vicini, S.J. Shu-Yi Oei Serazio, Michael Samuel Richardson Eric Dearing Richard McGowan S.J. Ray Madoff Jeremy Shakun Mark Bradshaw Mary Ellen Carter James Lubben John Makransky Thomas H. Groome Fishman, Donald Sienkiewicz, Matt Kevin R. Powers Lisa Goodman Noah P. Snyder John E. Ebel Anderson, James E. Grubb, Michael Can Erbil Ireland, Peter Murphy, Robert Aleksandar (Sasha) Tomic Ana M. Martínez Alemán James Repetti Diane Ring Natana J. Delong-Bas Michael Pratt Brad Harrington Zine Magubane C. Shawn McGuffey Sharlene Hesse-Biber Charles Derber Summer Sherburne Hawkins Jessica Black Theresa Betancourt Alicia Munnell Hosffman Ospino James W. Morris Mary Ann Hinsdale, IHM Richard Gaillardetz Sara Cordes Liane Young Ellen Winner Peter Gray Kay L. Schlozman Robert S. Ross Jonathan Laurence Marc Landy David Hopkins Dennis Hale James Cronin Seth Jacobs Cynthia L. Lyerly Arissa Oh James O'Toole Devin Pendas Oliver P. Rafferty, S.J. Heather Cox Richardson Alan Rogers Jane M. Flanagan Pamela J. Grace Alison O. Marshall Colleen Simonelli Patricia A. Tabloski Judith Vessey Catherine Yetter Read Sheila Tucker Mary Cronin John Gallaugher Gerald Kane Franziska Seraphim James Bernauer, S.J. Ruth Langer Robert J. Savage Hwang, Ingu Paulo Barrozo Sharon Beckman Robert Bloom Mark Brodin George D. Brown Michael Cassidy Kent Greenfield Renee Jones Daniel Kanstroom Cathleen Kaveny Joseph Liu Daniel Lyons Patricia McCoy David Olson Zygmunt Plater Brian Quinn Francine Sherman Catharine Wells David Wirth Alfred Chueh-Chin Yen Judith Clair John Fisher Henrik Hagtvedt Bradford Hudson Hristina Nikolova Elizabeth Kensinger Eva Garroutte Ann W. Burgess Karen Arnold David Blustein Henry Braun Susan Bruce Marilyn Cochran-Smith Julia DeVoy Maria Estela Brisk Andy Hargreaves Jacqueline Lerner Rebekah Levine Coley Belle Liang Rebecca Lowenhaupt Julie Paquette MacEvoy Katherine McNeill Laura O'Dwyer Mariela Páez Paul Poteat C. Patrick Proctor David Scanlon Dennis Shirley Mary Walsh Richard Kearney Alan L. Kafka Gail C. Kineke Darren Kisgen Jeffrey Pontiff Jonathan Reuter Ronnie Sadka Philip E. Strahan Dean Hashimoto David Twomey Miles, John "Jack" Nadia N. Abuelezam Chahrour, Ryan Jeffrey Cohen Hiba Hafiz Mary Ann Chirba Cal Halvorsen Leonard Kostovetsky Ali Kadivar Steven Koh Rachel Spooner Kirsten Davison Daniel Farbman Landrigan, Philip J. Krupenkin, Masha Juliet Schor Sankaran, Chandini Steinberg, Laura J. Betty Lai Nosal, Jaromir Stephen Shay R. Shep Melnick James Smith Francesco D’Acunto Bethune, Brian Ryan Williams Policies & Guidelines Overview Boston College Editorial Style Guidelines Graphic Identity System Boston College Websites Typography for Print Colors for Print Boston College Subbrands Safety Guidelines Signage Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Design Home Our Work Design Our Work Design Marketing News & Media Relations Photography Publications Social Media Videography Web Design & Development Digital Advertising Boston College Magazine One University. One Brand. From brochures, invitations, banners, and backdrops, to websites, e-newsletters, books, and magazines, our talented design team crafts a wide array of print and digital materials for OUC projects and University partners. Their designs provide a clear, compelling showcase tailored to enhance your message, while remaining consistent with Boston College’s visual brand standards. Graphic Identity System & Standards Commonwealth Ave. Banners The banners that adorn the perimeter of the BC campus along Commonwealth Avenue not only help identify the campus, but also the fact that there's a welcoming, vibrant community within. And there's nothing more welcoming than BC Superfans. Commonwealth Ave. Banners The stately eagle that sits atop the pedestal in front of Gasson Hall keeps watch over the campus. Commonwealth Ave. Banners There's nothing more iconic on the campus than the Gasson Hall towers. Commonwealth Ave. Banners Simply Boston College and its official seal. Examples of our work P R I N T E D C O M M U N I C A T I O N S Lynch School of Education and Human Development Influencers Brochure A brochure highlighting three conferences on whole-person education that took place on the BC campus. It was mailed out to those who vote in U.S. News & World Report rankings. School of Theology and Ministry Viewbook This viewbook is a travel piece primarily for prospective students, that illuminates STM as a world-class center of theological study. The main concept highlights the conjunction of theory and practice by playing off the “and” in Theology and Ministry. It is reinforced visually with the prominent die-cut "+" on the cover, echoing the cross. The Minds behind Mindhunter Event An integrated marketing campaign involving emails, social media, and printed collateral. It featured a talk by Connell School of Nursing professor Ann Burgess with former FBI special investigator John Douglas. The two helped develop a new type of criminal profiling and captured their experiences in a book which became the basis for a Netflix hit series. Carroll School of Management Graduate Program Brochures Brochures describing the curricula for each of the Carroll School's graduate programs. Voice Magazine The primary magazine for alumni of the Connell School of Nursing, Voice highlights the research being done by faculty and alumni. Boston College Magazine The premier publication that is sent to over 100,000 BC alumni worldwide, Boston College Magazine is produced entirely in-house by the staff within the Office of Communications. Boston College Identity and Stationery System The Boston College stationery and business cards have been designed to conform with the Boston College Graphic Identity System. Stationery and business cards are available in gold and black and maroon and black combinations, and stationery is printed on paper that is compatible with laser printers and photo copiers. Order online from Eagle Print Meet the team Diana Parziale Art Director Keith Ake Assistant Director Christine Hunt Assistant Director Monica DeSalvo Senior Graphic Designer Owen Edwards Graphic Design Consultant Award of Excellence Banners in the five-story atrium of O’Neill Library received an Award of Excellence by the University & College Designers Association (UCDA) Competition, which recognizes the best of the exceptional design work done by communication professionals to promote educational institutions. Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College