Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student How to Apply Plan a Visit Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. The Process Deadlines Financial Aid Apply Now Plan a Visit The Process Deadlines Financial Aid Apply Now Plan a Visit Plan A Visit THE OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS AND FINANCIAL AID WILL BE WORKING REMOTELY. In accordance with the university's COVID19 policy, our team continues to work remotely and remains operational responding to emails and inquires. Columbia Public Health is still following strict gateway testing and density maximums. Therefore, we are unable to offer prospective students a formal opportunity to visit campus. Those interested are welcome to visit our neighborhood to get a sense of the campus. If you would like to schedule a virtual meeting, please click here. To stay up to date on Columbia Public Health, please click here. Admissions & Financial Aid 1:1 Discussions Admissions and Financial Aid 1:1 Discussions will be available Monday through Friday. All sessions will be hosted through Zoom and held in Eastern Time. To schedule time to speak with a representative, please click the link here. General Information Sessions Learn more about Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health! Our information session will cover topics such as program availability, student engagement and support, career outcomes, admissions requirements, tips for applying, scholarships and available funding. Following our presentation there will be time for open Q&A. All sessions will be hosted through Zoom and held in Eastern Time. New dates coming soon! Department Information Sessions Health Policy and Management Executive MPH/MHA and Part-Time MHA Information Sessions Continue to check back for new dates! Open House The Mailman School of Public Health hosts Open Houses in the fall. Dates for Fall 2022 will be posted in August. Application Workshop Our application workshop will review the Columbia Public Health admissions and application process and is designed for prospective students looking to apply for the upcoming year. Workshops will resume in Summer 2022. Financial Aid for Applicants Join our Financial Aid team to review available scholarships and funding options at Columbia Public Health. New dates will be announced Summer 2022 Virtual Events Click here to connect with Columbia on the Road! Travel Information Campus Map Directions to Campus Travel Tips Get familiar with campus! Contact Us Mailman School of Public Health Columbia University 722 West 168th Street, Suite 1014 New York, NY 10032 Email: ph-admit [at] columbia.edu To receive more information, please submit your information here. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Bench-to-Bedside: A Dream or Reality?Apr 13 2022 Historically Redlined Neighborhoods Burdened by Excess Oil and Gas WellsApr 13 2022 Dean Linda P. Fried Awarded Kober Medal for Scientific and Mentorship AchievementsApr 11 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers