Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Health Professions Occupational Therapy Education Academics Entry-level MOT Entry-level OTD Post-Professional OTD Ph.D. in Therapeutic Science Curriculum Eligibility and Requirements Student Projects How to Apply Tuition and Aid Technical Standards Frequently Asked Questions Non-Degree Opportunities Why Choose KU Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Department of Occupational Therapy Education Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Department of Occupational Therapy Education Academics School of Health Professions Occupational Therapy Education Academics Academics Entry-level MOT Entry-level OTD Post-Professional OTD Ph.D. in Therapeutic Science Curriculum Eligibility and Requirements Student Projects How to Apply Tuition and Aid Technical Standards Frequently Asked Questions Non-Degree Opportunities Why Choose KU Research Outreach Outreach KU Sensory Enhanced Aquatics Career Paths Career Paths What is occupational therapy? About About History, Mission and Vision Faculty & Staff Contact Us Reed Professional Development Fund Academics Ph.D. in Therapeutic Science Who is this program for? Our program is designed for motivated students with a research-focused interest in exploring the intersection of activities, disability and quality of life through an integrated, interdisciplinary course of study. Our applicants typically have already obtained a research-based academic or professional master's degree and may have a professional credential or identity (e.g., occupational therapist, speech-language pathologist, licensed clinical social worker, clinical psychologist, special educator). Many of our current therapeutic science Ph.D. students continue to work in their chosen field while enrolled in the program. We support these different approaches to learning by offering evening and online classes. Program Overview In this program, we evaluate the connection between impairment, activity, social participation and other factors to understand the impact of disability on an individual's life. We strategically approach options for improving each person's engagement with his or her physical, social and psychological environments. Given these complex and changing variables, an interdisciplinary approach creates effective ways to produce systematic knowledge leading to improvements in quality of life for individuals with disabilities and for their families. This approach requires a "melding of knowledge from several disciplines to understand the fundamental nature of the enabling-disabling process, that is, how disabling conditions develop, progress, and reverse, and how biological, behavioral, and environmental factors can affect these transitions" (Brant & Pope, 1997, p.4). Combining evidence-based knowledge with an informed understanding of an individual’s goals and contexts can produce strategies to prevent or eliminate functional impairments. Within the program, you will study and implement processes of knowledge generation and translate these into practice. This insight and skill set will fundamentally enhance your approach to a professional career supporting people with disabilities, their families and their communities. Research Areas of Study At the University of Kansas, faculty are actively engaged in multidiscplinary research to positively impact the lives of people in our community and across the world. Their work also provides KU students the opportunity to gain critical skills in evidence-based interventions to incorporate into future health care. Explore our current faculty research initiatives. Ph.D. in Therapeutic Science Ph.D. in Therapeutic Science Curriculum Eligibility and Requirements Student Projects How to Apply Tuition and Aid Technical Standards Frequently Asked Questions Non-Degree Opportunities Credentials KU's doctoral degree program in therapeutic science does not provide eligibility for professional licensing for employment. As a research program, credentialing for health care practice does not apply to this program. "Recreational therapy is considered a 'discovery career' as most people having never heard of it. Being passionate about my own recreational pursuits, particularly swimming, and having early contact with individuals with disabilities helped me discover recreational therapy. As I engaged in clinical practice, I met challenges that compelled me to pursue a master’s degree and then a therapeutic science Ph.D. Being both a graduate and faculty of the program positioned me well to describe the value and unique contributions of the therapeutic science program. With my Ph.D. in Therapeutic Science, I was able to build clinical practice, research and teaching around a recreational activity that I love." - Lisa Mische Lawson, Class of 2006 KU School of Health Professions Occupational Therapy Education KU Medical Center 3901 Rainbow Blvd MS2003 Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-7195 • 711 TTY University of Kansas Occupational Therapy Education Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.