Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni CU Honors College Academics Forward Arrow Academics Curriculum Tracks Forward Arrow Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Back Arrow Back Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Back Arrow Back Admissions Forward Arrow Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Back Arrow Back Opportunities Forward Arrow Opportunities Intellectual Growth Forward Arrow Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Back Arrow Back Professional Development Forward Arrow Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Back Arrow Back Travel Forward Arrow Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Back Arrow Back Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Back Arrow Back Student Support Forward Arrow Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Back Arrow Back Resources Forward Arrow Resources Faculty Forward Arrow Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Back Arrow Back Alumni School Counselors Parents Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close CU Honors College Academics show submenu for Academics Curriculum Tracks show submenu for Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Admissions show submenu for Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Opportunities show submenu for Opportunities Intellectual Growth show submenu for Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Professional Development show submenu for Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Travel show submenu for Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Student Support show submenu for Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week About show submenu for About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Resources show submenu for Resources Faculty show submenu for Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Alumni School Counselors Parents Clemson Home CU Honors College Student Support Current: Peer Mentors Honors Peer Mentoring Helping You Transition to College Life The Clemson University Honors College Peer Mentoring Program creates a community of students working and learning together to develop a unique perspective of living and learning through shared experiences. Peer mentors are current upperclassmen in the Honors Program that work with groups of 4-7 newly admitted Honors students throughout the academic year. In addition to small group events determined by the mentor/mentee groups, the Peer Mentors also plan several large-scale events, including an Honors information fair in August known as Honors New Student Day and various social events including Lemonade on the Lawn. Objectives of Mentoring To enhance group support and community within the Honors College To assist new students with the transition to Clemson University To encourage active participation in students' academic years To encourage mutually beneficial, positive and lasting relationships between students To provide peer mentors with opportunities for developing skills in group facilitation, communication and event-planning To enhance mentees' abilities to interact comfortably with people and groups from diverse background Requirements Participate in a mandatory training session Meet with mentees as a group at least three times each semester Maintain an open line of communication throughout the semester with mentees Log all contact dates you have with your mentees using the required form Meet the Peer Mentor President Name: Julia Thompson Hometown: Westfield, MA Major: Bioengineering - Biomaterials Concentration Minor: Business Administration Graduation Year: 2022 Campus Involvement: Writing Fellow for the Writing Lab, Alpha Eta Mu Beta, Tau Beta Pi, Undergraduate Clemson Bioengineering Society, Society of Woman Engineers (SWE), Alpha Lambda Delta, Creative Inquiry, Study Abroad in Spain, Intramural Sports, Club Tennis, Recreational Golf Club. Bio: Hi freshman Honors students! Welcome to Clemson! My name is Julia Thompson, and I am a senior from Westfield, Massachusetts. I am a bioengineering major with a concentration in biomaterials and a minor in business administration. This past year I served as the VP of Outreach and Events for the Honors Peer Mentoring Program, and I am excited to move into my new role as President of the program for this upcoming year! Our team of mentors is here to support you through your transition to college and provide you with opportunities to get connected and involved on campus. As an out-of-state student going to school almost 1,000 miles away from home, I was grateful to have an amazing Honors Peer Mentor who helped me navigate my academics and involvement in my first year (and beyond!). Our leadership team and group of mentors are looking forward to helping you start the year off strong and be comfortable and confident on campus. Having had a mentor my freshman year and been a mentor for the past two years, I can tell you that this program is special. I hope that you will choose to join the Honors Peer Mentor Program and take advantage of the resources and support of the Clemson Honors community. I look forward to meeting you all in the fall and welcome you to the Clemson Family! ;Go Tigers! College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences (CAFLS) Degrees Within the College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences Agribusiness Agricultural Education Agricultural Mechanization and Business Animal and Veterinary Sciences Environmental and Natural Resources Food Science and Human Nutrition Forest Resource Management Horticulture Packaging Science Turfgrass Wildlife and Fisheries Biology Meet the Mentors Name: Dina Graves Major: Food Science Class: 2024 Hometown: Glenview, IL Campus Involvement: Food Science Club Bio: Hey guys! Congrats on your acceptance into the Clemson University Honors College! I’m a food science major from the Chicagoland area and a rising sophomore. I look forward to getting to know y’all and helping you transition into Clemson and find your place here! In my spare time I love to run, bake, and spend time with my friends exploring Clemson. I can’t wait to be your peer mentor! Go Tigers!! Name: Jessica Hardiman Hometown: Summerfield, NC Major: Food Science and Technology Minor: Chemistry Grad Year: 2023 Campus Involvement: Involved in Running Club, Food Science Club, Nutrition club, and FCA. Bio: Hi everyone! Welcome to Clemson, and congrats on your acceptance into the Clemson University Honors College! I am a Food Science major from Summerfield, North Carolina. My emphasis area within Food Science is Culinology and I am minoring in Chemistry. I love all things dealing with food, so if anyone likes to experiment with new recipes, I am totally down! I am a rising junior, and I would love to share my Clemson experiences thus far with you and help make your transition as smooth and enjoyable as possible. In my spare time, I love to run, go on walks, hike, try new restaurants, and hang out with my friends. I also work at the ’55 Exchange ice cream shop on campus, so I eat a lot of ice cream as well :) I would love to give you guys tips on how to get involved on campus, as I am a part of many different types of clubs. I’m so excited to get to know all of you and help you pick out classes, show you around campus, and take you out for free food! I can’t wait to be your peer mentor! GO TIGERS!! Name: Bryson Parler Hometown: North Augusta, SC Major: Food Science & Human Nutrition Minors: Psychology & Biological Science Graduation Year: 2023 Campus Involvement: Paws for PA (Social Media Chair), Clemson Wesley Student Ministries, Clemson Hiking Club, Creative Inquiry Bio: Hey everyone, my name is Bryson, and I am a fourth-generation Clemson student. I am so excited you choose to join the Clemson Family! I am a rising junior majoring in Food Science and Human Nutrition with an emphasis in Basic Behavioral Science. I am planning to attend Physician Assistant school after graduation. I enjoy running, trying new recipes, and being outdoors. I would love to show you some of my favorite spots to run, hike, and hang out as well as help you learn how to manage the workload and stresses of college. I look forward to getting to know you all and helping you transition to college. Name: Elizabeth Peacock Hometown: Spartanburg, SC Major: Health Science Bio: Hey, Tiger! Congrats on your acceptance into the Clemson University Honors College! My name is Lizzie, and I’m a rising sophomore health science major with a concentration in preprofessional health studies (pre-med track). My career goal is to become a physician, but I’m not sure what specialty yet. I know there’s a lot to figure out in your first year of college, and I’m super excited to help guide you along the way! I look forward to meet-ups downtown or on-campus and will definitely introduce you to the best ice cream/coffee spots! Besides coffee, I’m passionate about medicine, playing and listening to music, tennis, cooking, and all kinds of books! Another life goal is to compete on Survivor, so if you ever want to have a marathon, I’m your girl. I want to help make your transition to Clemson as easy and as fun as possible, and I will always be around for advice if you need to talk or are freaking out about school/the future. One of my nerdy qualities is that I love planning, so I can advise you with class schedules and career development as well. I’m super stoked to be your biggest cheerleader and can’t wait to meet you! Name: Michele Scaglione Hometown: Sparta, NJ Major:Health Science Graduation Year: 2024 Campus Involvement: Foundation of International Medical Relief of Children, Phi Delta Epsilon Medical Fraternity, Camp Kesem at Clemson, Creative Inquiry in food science, Nutrition Club, Kappa Delta Sorority Bio: Hey everyone! Welcome to Clemson and the Honors College! My name is Michele and I am a rising sophomore majoring in Health Science on a pre-med track. After college, I plan on attending medical school and hope to become a physician. I love running, going to the gym, spending time outside, listening to music/podcasts, and grabbing coffee at All In or ice cream at Spill the Beans! I am a huge foodie and know all of the best places to get something good to eat. Being from New Jersey, I was definitely nervous about being so far from home and not knowing anyone else here. But, I have come to absolutely love this school and am so glad to call it my home! I am here to help guide you through your transition to Clemson, whether that be with academics, research, getting involved on campus, or just to answer any questions that you have. I am super excited to meet you all! Congrats on your decision to go to Clemson and as always, GO TIGERS!! Name: Faith Shupard Hometown: Bluffton, SC College: College of Agriculture, Forestry, and Life Sciences Major: Animal and Veterinary Science/>Minor: Wildlife Biology Graduation Year: 2023 Campus Involvement: Honors College Ambassador, Secretary and Recruitment Chair for the Block and Bridle Club, Historian for the Pre-Vet Club, AVS Creative Inquiry Bio: Hey y’all, welcome to Clemson and the Honors College! My name is Faith and I am a rising junior from Bluffton, SC. I am an Animal and Veterinary Science major concentrating in pre-veterinary medicine. In my spare time, I enjoy going to all of Clemson’s sporting events (football games especially!), spending time outdoors, trying new restaurants, and hanging out with friends. As a peer mentor, I am here to help you navigate your transition to college whether that be with classes, clubs, research opportunities, or anything else that may arise. I am always down to grab Starbucks or ice cream from the ‘55 Exchange and I cannot wait to get to know you all! I hope you have a great summer and, as always, Go Tigers! Name: Bry Thobe Hometown: Easley, SC Major: Packaging Science Minor: Business Administration Grad Year: 2023 Campus Involvement: Kappa Delta Sorority Executive Board Member, Creative Inquiry in Sustainable Packaging, Packaging Science Club, Intramural Sports & an Employee for Campus Activities and Events. Bio: Hey everyone! First of all, welcome to Clemson and congratulations on being accepted into the Honors College! My name is Bry (like the cheese), and I’m a rising junior from Easley, South Carolina. I am majoring in Packaging Science with a minor in Business Administration, and my goal is to pursue a career in the packaging design industry. One of my favorite parts about college is the endless opportunities that it provides for you to meet new people, so, needless to say, I am so excited to meet you all! During my freshman year at Clemson, I tried out numerous clubs and organizations and even changed my major, so I am more than ready to help you navigate anything that freshman year throws your way. Not only am I looking forward to serving you all as a mentor, but also to be there as a friend that you can just grab coffee with- so always feel free to reach out! Once again, I am so excited to meet you and Go Tigers! College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities (CAAH) Degrees Within the College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities Architecture Construction Science and Management English History Landscape Architecture Language and International Health Language and International Trade Modern Languages Pan African Studies Philosophy Production Studies in Performing Arts Religious Studies Visual Arts World Cinema Women's Leadership Meet the Mentors Name: Josephine Rohrer Hometown: Beaufort, SC Major: Language and International Business (Spanish) Class: 2023 Campus Involvement: Peer Assisted Learning (PAL) Leader, Business and Promotions Chief of The Pendulum, Sister Support Team (SST) Leader for Chi Omega Fraternity, Spanish Professional Society, and Intramural Soccer Bio: Hey Class of 2025 and welcome to the Clemson family! To introduce myself, my name is Josephine Rohrer and I’m a rising junior here at Clemson. I’m currently a Spanish and International Business major and hoping (fingers crossed!) to study abroad in the summer. What I hope to do in the future is a question many, including myself, would like the answer to. Industries I’m drawn to are marketing (which I’ve had two internships in), finance, investing, entrepreneurship, and fashion. I hope to get my MBA a few years after graduating. I’ve moved 7 times, without counting college, including towns in New Jersey, South Carolina, and Puerto Rico. Living in PR is actually what got me interested in Spanish! It was also the place where I got my beautiful dog, Sprinkles. Even if you don’t ask, I promise you’ll hear lots about her. In these places, I’ve been playing soccer since I was 8 years old and have never lost my love for it. A few of my Clemson favorites are Core Starbucks coffee, ‘55 Exchange dark chocolate chip and mint chocolate chip ice cream, Esso’s, and PokeStar. Hope this gives you a better look into who I am. More importantly, I am beyond excited to meet each and every one of my mentees in the fall and get to know YOU. Again, congratulations on your acceptance into the Clemson Honors College, it’ll be one of the best times of your life. Go tigers! College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences (CBSHS) Degrees Within the College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Anthropology Communication Health Science Justice Studies Nursing Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management Political Science Psychology Sociology Sports Communication Youth Development Studies Meet the Mentors Name: Virginia Edlund Hometown: Spartanburg, SC Major: Anthropology Minor: Chinese Grad Year: 2024 Campus Involvement: Gamma Sigma Sigma Sorority, Dixon Junior Fellows, Anthropology Club, Clemson Hiking Club Bio: Hello and welcome to the Clemson Honors College! My name is Virginia Edlund and I am a rising sophomore from Spartanburg, SC. I am studying Anthropology and Chinese, with hopes of working for the FBI as a forensic anthropologist. I enjoy travelling, hiking, watching movies, and trying new foods. Since my freshman year was different than most, I made sure to put extra effort into getting involved and finding my place at Clemson. As a mentee in the Peer Mentor Program, I was able to meet new people with similar goals and interests, in addition to learning more about what Clemson has to offer. As your mentor, I hope to provide you with those same opportunities to grow and learn, while still having some fun along the way. I look forward to meeting you in the fall and as always, Go Tigers! Name: Diana Frank Hometown: Atlanta, GA Major: Psychology Minor: Youth Development Graduation Year: ;2024 Campus Involvement: Clemson Hiking Club, Clemson HOPE, Clemson Honors Community Service, Clemson's Challenge for Academically Talented Students (C-CATS) Intern, CHAARG, Honors Peer Mentor, Welcome Week Leader Bio: Welcome Tigers! I am so excited that you all chose to be part of our Clemson family, and I cannot wait to get to know all of you. My name is Diana Frank, and I am a rising sophomore studying Psychology and Youth Development from Atlanta, GA. I came to Clemson knowing very few people, and although it was scary at first, it was the best decision of my life. I will always be happy to help you all with questions about school, extracurriculars, or life in general. In the future, I hope to obtain my Master's in Clinical Psychology to become a Child Psychologist. IN my free time, I love attending Clemson sporting events, hiking, backing, reading, and playing with my dogs. I can't wait to meet all of you, and GO TIGERS! Name: Virginia Gembala Hometown: Mendam, NJ Major: Psychology (pre-Health) Minor: Spanish Grad Year: 2023 Campus Involvement: Sigma Kappa Sorority, External Social Chair, Clemson Hope, VIDA Volunteer, Clemson BodyWell Bio:Welcome tigers! My name is Virginia Gembala and I am a rising junior studying psychology on the pre-health track. I am super excited to meet all of you guys and help show you why Clemson is as amazing as they say! Freshman year can be both exciting and completely nerve-wracking, so I'm more than thrilled to help you navigate through it all. Also, as I continue to work towards going to medical or graduate school, I would be more than happy to help you through class selection as well as any concerns with being a non-science major who is looking towards a health focused career, which can seem crazy at times. I also am working towards a minor in Spanish and hope to apply it to use in the healthcare field to help different minority groups as well as live overseas, so if you want to look into taking a language and the wonderful things with it, I can help you out too! At home I love to hang out with my brothers and friends, explore new hiking trails, and go to the beach. Some of my favorite things to do in Clemson are go to the different workout classes, go downtown, sit out on Old Main and try all the different restaurants or sweet spots, and of course the football games! If you have questions about anything from classes to different campus activities, or even just a chance to catch up or rant, know I will always be available! Congrats on your decision to go to Clemson and join the Clemson University Honors College family, I hope to see you in the fall! Name: Sean Michael Graham Hometown: Jackson, TN Major: Health Science Minor: Biological Sciences Graduation Year: ;2022 Campus Involvement: PAL Leader, Departmental Honors, Medlife, Certified Student Leader Program, Alpha Epsilon Delta, Intramural sports. Bio: Welcome to Clemson! I want to congratulate you all on making one of the biggest decisions in your life so far. I am so glad you chose Clemson and the Clemson University Honors College. My name is Sean Graham and I am a rising Senior, Health Science major from a small town in West Tennessee called Jackson. I came to Clemson knowing only one other student and was definitely nervous when first moving in. That being said, 3 years in and I can’t walk through campus without a familiar face waving and saying hi or joining me on my walk to class. Post-grad I plan to attend medical school and pursue a career as a practicing physician. I am a very passionate Clemson Tiger fan hoping to make my way to another College Football playoff game this winter. I am looking forward to helping you all transition to a new environment and this next chapter of your lives. I very excited to share with you all my favorite restaurants, campus activities, opportunities and study spots this semester! I hope you all have a first semester as amazing as mine was. Again, congrats on your decision and welcome to Clemson. Go Tigers! Name: Olivia Henderson Hometown: Greenville, SC Major: Criminal Justice and Psychology Class: 2024 Campus Involvement: Clemson Honors Dixon Fellows, Honors Pre-Law Society, Alpha Delta Pi Operations Specialist, Howell Pre-Law Society Secretary, Phi Alpha Delta Pre-Law Fraternity Social Events and Community Service Chairs, Clemson Miracle, ClemsonLIFE Volunteer, American Criminal Justice Association, Psychology Club, Catholic Student Association, Intramural Flag Football Bio: Hello Tigers!!!! Congratulations on your acceptance, and welcome to the Clemson Family! My name is Olivia Henderson. I am in my second year studying Criminal Justice and Psychology here. I have loved my time so far at Clemson and in the Honors College, and I cannot wait to be a part of your experience here! I have enjoyed getting involved across campus from honors college organizations like Dixon Fellows, serving through leadership in my sorority Alpha Delta Pi, along with joining Pre Law societies, religious organizations, and volunteer clubs. After my time here at Clemson, I plan to go to law school and work in Criminal or Malpractice Law. I’m excited to get to know each of you and guide you through your freshman year, whether it be academically, socially, or just adapting to college life in general!!! Name: Marin Johnson Hometown: Bethesda, MD Major: Nursing Minor: Public Health Certificate Graduation Year: 2024 Campus Involvement: Alpha Chi Omega Sorority (VP New Member Education), Army ROTC, FCA, Student Nurses' Association (SNA), Rotaract club Bio: Hey, y’all! I am SO excited for this semester and that you chose Clemson; welcome to the family! My name is Marin Johnson and I am a rising Sophomore nursing major with a concentration in public health (through Clemson’s public health certificate program) from Bethesda, MD. At home, I have worked as a firefighter/EMT for the past three years, and at Clemson I am involved heavily in Alpha Chi Omega sorority (as the VP of New Member Education), Army ROTC, FCA, and rotaract club. In my free time, I tend to be working out at Fike, studying at Cooper library, or spending time with my friends. I am so excited you chose Clemson and the Honors College and am beyond excited to meet and get to know y’all. As always, GO TIGERS! Name: Jade Killion Hometown: Philadelphia, PA Major: Criminal Justice Minors: Political Science and Business Administration Graduation year: 2022 Campus Involvement: Alpha Chi Omega, The Pendulum, Clemson Write for Hope, and Study Abroad (Florence, Italy) Bio: Hi, everyone and welcome to the Clemson family! My name is Jade and I am a rising senior on a pre-law track. I am so excited to meet all of you and hope that sharing my experiences will help you make a smooth transition into your life on campus! Clemson has given me so much, especially through my organizational involvements and I hope I can help you all find your places on campus too. I am the current Vice President of Chapter Relations and Standards of the Alpha Chi Omega sorority, the incoming Editor in Chief of The Pendulum- Clemson’s international affairs magazine, and a proud volunteer with Clemson’s Write for Hope program! Clemson, especially the Honors College, has so much to offer each and every one of you and I hope you come to think of me as a shoulder to lean on as you explore! I can’t wait to meet you all and, as always, go tigers! Name: Alyssa McIntire Hometown: Hopkinton, MA Major: Health Science Class: 2024 Campus Involvement: Alpha Chi Omega, Club Field Hockey Bio: Hi everyone! My name is Alyssa McIntire and I am a rising sophomore health science major at Clemson! I’m so excited to meet you all and guide you through your exciting and memorable journey here at Clemson! I am from Massachusetts, so it was certainly an adjustment coming far away to school and transitioning into life on campus, so I hope to be a resource for you and help make your transition as smooth as possible. Clemson is the perfect place to form genuine friendships, explore your passions & interests, and embark on the next chapter of your life! The Honors College especially broadens your opportunities and experiences in and out of the classroom. See you soon & Go Tigers! Name: Margaret (Margo) Shepard Hometown: Greenville, SC Major: Nursing Minor: Psychology Graduation Year: 2024 Campus Involvement: Clemson Miracle, Student Nurses Association (SNA) Bio: Hey y’all! Wishing you a huge congratulations on making one of the best decisions to come to Clemson. We are so SO happy to welcome you as a Tiger. My name is Margo and I am a rising sophomore Nursing major with a Psychology minor from Greenville, SC. Having just finished my freshman year I understand all of the emotions; excited and nervous. This past year was so fulfilling and I was able to have an extremely successful year. I know online-learning and COVID-19 related issues can be nerve-wracking, but you can still have an amazing experience meeting people and be extremely successful academically despite the precautionary measures. I am more than willing to provide insights on classes and academics but also amazing spots to get work done around campus and places you should definitely check out during your time on campus. In my free time I love to go to Y-beach, get coffee with friends, and spend time outside with friends enjoying what Clemson has to offer! I cannot wait to get to meet you guys and help with your transition to the best school. Go Tigers! College of Education Degrees Within the College of Education Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education Elementary Education Mathematics Teaching Special Education Secondary Education Areas: English Mathematics Social Studies (History) Science Teaching Areas: Biological Sciences Chemistry Physical Sciences Physics Meet the Mentors Please contact the Peer Mentors President for assistance. College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Degrees Within the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Automotive Engineering Bioengineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Glenn Department of Civil Engineering Holmombe Dept. Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering and Science Education Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences General Engineering Industrial Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science Engineering School of Computing Meet the Mentors Name: Meg Applegate Hometown: Medford, New Jersey Major: Mechanical Engineering Graduation Year: 2024 Campus Involvement: Women in Science and Engineering (WiSE), Asian Student Association (ASA), Pi Beta Phi Sorority Bio: Hey Tigers! Congrats on joining the Honors College, and I can't wait to meet y'all! My name is Meg Applegate, and I'm going to be a sophomore mechanical engineering student this year. I'm originally from New Jersey, right outside Philadelphia. I love getting involved on campus in any way I can, playing volleyball on Bowman field, getting ice cream downtown, and studying outside on nice days. I know this past year or so has been super crazy and weird, but myself and the rest of the Honors College team is here to help you guys in any way we can! If you have any questions or concerns about literally anything, whether it's about your classes, dorm life, student organizations, or the best place to get Mexican food in Clemson, please don't hesitate to reach out to me! I love talking to people, and I'm super excited to see y'all soon!! Have a great day and go tigers! Name: Tillman Dillon Hometown: Blythewood, SC Major: Mechanical Engineering Class: 2024 Campus Involvement: Honors Community Service Group, Alpha Lambda Delta, CUHackIt, Intramural Sports Bio: Hello everyone and welcome to the Clemson family! My name is Tillman Dillon and I’m a sophomore mechanical engineering major from Blythewood, South Carolina. Being within the first generation of the Clemson family to attend during a pandemic, I completely understand the difficulties of finding where to fit in. Clemson offers a variety of opportunities to get involved, and I have enjoyed participating in several organizations on campus including the Honors Community Service Group and the Alpha Lambda Delta Honors fraternity, as well as having had the opportunity to participate in Clemson events such as CUHackIt, intramural kickball, and tons of residential community-sponsored events. In my free time, I enjoy exploring campus and relaxing outdoors with my friends. I’m here to make your transition as smooth and enjoyable as possible, so if you need advice, suggestions for involvement, have any questions about anything on or off campus, or just need a friend, I’m here to help. I’m excited to meet you and, once again, welcome to the Clemson family! Name: Grace Haller Hometown: Charlotte, NC Major: Bioengineering, biomaterials concentration Minor: French Graduation Year: 2023 Campus Involvement: Clemson Bioengineering Society, Theta Tau Professional Engineering Fraternity, Society of Women Engineers (SWE), Catholic Students Association, Intramural Sports, Creative Inquiry, Women in Science and Engineering (WISE), Dixon Fellows Program, French Club, French Professional Society. Bio: Hi everyone welcome to Clemson! My name is Grace Haller and I am from Charlotte, North Carolina. I am a rising junior majoring in Bioengineering with a biomaterials concentration, and I am minoring in French. I love playing volleyball and other sports, traveling, Clemson football games, and dollar slice pizza night downtown! I especially enjoy hanging out with my friends and doing homework on Bowman Field and the Union. As an out of state student, I understand how difficult this transition can be, and I can't wait to help you through it. I am so excited to welcome you to Clemson and help you make it your home! Go Tigers! Name: Aniela Nozka Hometown: St. Louis, MO Major: Bioengineering (Biomaterials Concentration) Graduation Year: 2023 Campus Involvement: Creative Inquiry - Genome Editing Tools, Society of Women Engineers (SWE), Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honors Society, Clemson Hiking Club, Clemson Engineering World Health, Fellowship of Christian Athletes (FCA), Clemson Photography Club, Women in Science and Engineering (WISE), Club Swim Team, and Central Spirit. Bio: Hello incoming class of 2025! My name is Aniela Nozka, and I am a junior from St. Louis, Missouri. I am studying bioengineering with a concentration in biomaterials. In the future I hope to go to graduate school and do research in genetics. Coming from 12 hours away, I didn’t know much about Clemson, but I have learned a lot and have grown to love my new home. I love going to sporting events, especially football and volleyball! I also love going to the lake with my friends and going hiking! The transition to college can be hard, but I hope I can help make that transition easier and answer any questions you might have. I’m looking forward to meeting you in the fall! Congrats on all that you have accomplished so far, and welcome to the Clemson family! College of Science Degrees Within the College of Science Biochemistry Biological Sciences Chemistry Genetics Mathematical Sciences Microbiology Physics Meet the Mentors Name: Caroline Barrows Hometown: Fuquay-Varina, NC Major: Biochemistry and Psychology Graduation Year: 2023 Campus Involvement: EUREKA! 2019 Undergraduate Research Program, Honors Ambassadors, Alpha Epsilon Delta National Health Pre-Professional Honor Society, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Kappa Delta Sorority, National Residence Hall Honorary, Clinical Applications and Medical Practices, Departmental Honors Research in Psychology, and participation in Dr. Britt’s Meaningful Work in Medicine Creative Inquiry. Bio: Welcome Class of 2025! My name is Caroline Barrows and I am a rising junior in Biochemistry and Psychology. I am SO excited that you have all chosen Clemson Honors! These past two years I have gotten involved with several organizations on campus focusing on advocacy, academics, medicine, and ministry. After graduation, I hope to attend medical school and become a pediatrician. Some of my favorite things to do around campus include going to sporting events, Y-Beach, and Spill the Beans. I am so excited to be an Honors Peer Mentor again this year and I hope to help with your transition to Clemson. As an out-of-state student, I understand how hard it can be to come to a school where you don’t know anyone. Whether an academic question, school advice, or help getting involved on campus, I can’t wait to be there for y’all. Welcome to the Clemson Family! Name: Ben Brandes Hometown: Lexington, SC Major: Biochemistry Minor: Spanish Studies Grad Year: 2022 Campus Involvement: Honors Research in Biochemistry and Genetics, National Residence Hall Honorary, Residence Hall Association, Symphonic/Concert Band, Photography Club, Biochemistry & Genetics Club. Bio: Howdy! I am super excited to serve as the Vice President of the Honors Mentor Program and for everything that we have in store in the upcoming year. First and foremost: congratulations on your acceptance into the Clemson University Honors College! The next few years of this wild adventure will undoubtedly be some of your most memorable, and I hope that I will be a beneficial resource as you are starting the journey. As a peer mentor, I can help you on your college trek in whatever way works best for you: whether that is career/major advice, classes/general school stuff, finding housing, finding extracurricular activities, or even if you just want to have a meal on us with other honors students. A little about me: I am a senior biochemistry major and aim to attend medical school after I graduate. I am involved in a couple of different activities around campus: I do research in the EPIC lab (yes -- it is epic) where we study the stress response of a fungal pathogen Cryptococcus neoformans; I am the president of a group called the National Residence Hall Honorary, a service-based club that aims to build community in Clemson's residence halls; I also enjoy doing photography with my Canon Rebel T6, going hiking/being out in nature, and maybe even playing the French horn. My first semester had a somewhat rocky transition, but my honors peer mentor that year really helped to ease the confusion. I hope to help you find your own path here at Clemson and realize the incredible resources that both the Honors College and university at large have available to you. Now for the pun that we love so much: CU soon! Name: Noah Dunn Hometown: Tega Cay, SC Major: Biological Sciences Minor: Psychology Graduation Year: 2023 Campus Involvement: Alpha Epsilon Delta National Health Pre-Professional Society, Paws for PA, Clemson Students Against Alzheimer’s, Honors Peer Mentoring, Clemson Club Swimming, 2020/21 HRC Resident Assistant, Clemson Study Abroad Bio: Hey class of 2025! Congrats and welcome to Clemson! I’m Noah and I am a rising junior biology major on the pre-PA track! Although I thought my first two years at Clemson would be crazy scary and hard, it was actually pretty easy to become a part of the Clemson Family and I hope to help make the transition easy for you too! Things that I love doing in Clemson include: watching a game in Death Valley, going downtown to Moe’s and Spill the Beans, walking through the botanical gardens, swimming at Fike, taking a cycling class at Douthit, and grabbing a smoothie from Freshens! I will be available for any questions regarding class scheduling, the best places to study, or what the best foods at McAllister are. I love all things outside, taking pictures, and trying new restaurants so if you like those things too, I’d love to be your mentor! Have an awesome summer and I’ll see you guys in the fall! Go Tigers! Name: Emily Golba Hometown: Jupiter, FL Major: Genetics Minor: Spanish Studies Graduation Year: 2023 Campus Involvement: Pi Beta Phi Fraternity, Genetics and Biochemistry Club, Clemson Miracle Bio: Hey guys! Congratulations on your acceptance to the Clemson Honors college! Coming to Clemson was one of the best decisions. I have made the best friends and there are endless opportunities. I already never want to leave. I will be starting my second year of college in the fall and I’m majoring in genetics with a minor in Spanish studies. I’m also planning on going to graduate school to get my P.h.D. in genetics, so I would love to help anyone on the same path. I would be more than happy to help with anything involving housing, class, scheduling, or I am always available to just talk. This past year was very different compared to others but still was a lot of fun and I’m excited I get to help you guys going through your first year. I enjoy going downtown for Moe’s, Your Pie, or Spill the Beans. I also love watching football in Death Valley, any other sporting event, or going to Y-beach. The transition from high school to college is big but I can’t wait to see how amazing you all do! Go Tigers! Name: Lucy Jennings Hometown: Charlotte, NC College: College of Science Major: Genetics and Psychology Graduation Year: 2023 Campus Involvement: Eureka! 2019, Sigma Kappa Sorority, Women’s Club Basketball, Intramural Sports (flag football/ indoor soccer), Resident Hall Association, National Residence Hall Honorary, FCA Bio: Congrats Tigers! I am so happy that you have decided to join the Clemson family and cannot wait for you to get on campus in the fall! My name is Lucy Jennings and I am a rising Junior majoring in Genetics and Psychology. After graduation, I am hoping to get my MS in Genetics Counseling. I love to be active whether that is competing in intermural sports or just working out at Fike. I love going to all Clemson athletic events and cheering on our Tigers. I also love going to all Clemson’s bests ice cream spots like Spill the Beans and 55 Exchange. I want to be here for you, whether you have questions about your biology homework or what building your advisor’s office is in. If you want a fun mentor that will be there for you and communicate with your regularly with everything you need to know, then I am your girl! I want to help in your transition to life at Clemson in whatever way and help you fall in love with this incredible place. Go Tigers! Name: Alina Kazmi Hometown: Fort Mill, SC Major: Biochemistry Minor: Microbiology Graduation Year: 2023 Campus involvement: Freshmen Council, Phi Delta Epsilon Medical Fraternity, Zeta Tau Alpha Fraternity, and Undergraduate Research in Fibrotic Remodeling. Bio: Hello fellow Tigers and welcome to Clemson University! My name is Alina Kazmi and I am a rising sophomore from Fort Mill, SC. I am currently heading down a pre-med track while majoring in biochemistry and minoring in microbiology. Down the road, I hope to earn an MD in order to accomplish my lifelong goal of becoming a surgeon someday. Some activities I enjoy partaking in during my free time are going to workout at Fike, running all over campus, cooking, and shopping. Not too long ago, I was in your footsteps and I completely understand the excitement, stress, and frustration freshmen year brings. However, as one of your Honors peer mentors I would love to provide to you the essential services you need to succeed here at Clemson. That being said, I hope you get the most out of your Clemson experience, and go Tigers! Name: Omika Merchant Hometown: Greenville, South Carolina Major: Microbiology with a concentration in Biomedicine Grad Year: 2024 Campus Involvement: EUREKA! 2020, Honors College Ambassador, COSMIC Mentor, CU-Reach Mentor, Indian Cultural Association Member, HPP Member, Best Buddies Member Bio: Congratulations on your acceptance to the Honors College and welcome to the Clemson family! My name is Omika Merchant and I am a rising sophomore on the pre-med track. I love to paint, walk to the lake and Botanical Gardens, and watch Disney movies! I know how spooky the first year of college can seem right now, but don't worry, everyone here wants to see you to succeed and there's always someone in your corner! I can always be available to help you get the best course schedule, get involved on Campus, destress with a canvas or a walk, and explore Clemson's restaurants downtown. So if you want to jumpstart your Clemson career or just want some ice cream from Spill the Beans downtown, I'd love to be your mentor! Once again, congratulations, and I can't wait to meet you in the fall! Name: Amelia Morton Hometown: Irmo, SC Major: Microbiology with a Biomedical concentration Minor: Business Administration and Psychology Graduation Year: 2023 Campus Involvement: Phi Delta Epsilon Medical Fraternity, Pi Beta Phi Sorority, Dixon Fellows Program, ClemsonLIFE Volunteer, Club Tennis Bio: Welcome to Clemson Class of 2025! Congratulations on your acceptance to the Clemson University Honors College and on joining the Clemson family! My name is Amelia Morton and I am a rising junior from Irmo, SC on a pre-medical track. As a mentor, I am so excited to get to meet each of you and help you tackle your freshman year. I will be here to answer any questions you have about getting involved in clubs, the Dixon Fellows Program, as well as how to navigate around campus and provide schedule recommendations. Some of my favorite things to do on campus are hang out on Bowman Field on a nice day, study in the library, or go downtown to All In or Spill the Beans. Other things I like to do for fun are read, watch movies and play tennis. I look forward to taking my mentees out for dinners downtown, meeting up for coffee at Core Starbucks for a study break or getting some Clemson ice cream. I know the transition ahead of you is a little daunting right now, but as someone who has been through it, I can tell you that this next year is going to fly by and I will be here to help in any way I can. I hope you all have a great rest of your summer and I will see you in the fall! Go Tigers!!! Name: Amelia Pettigrew Hometown: Taylors, SC Major: Pre-pharmacy Class: 2024 Campus Involvement: Pharmacy Club Bio: Hey freshmen Honors students! My name is Amelia Pettigrew and I am a sophomore pre-pharmacy major. I’m from Taylors, SC. I’m hoping to go to Pharmacy School soon and eventually work as a pharmacist in a hospital setting. This is my first year as a mentor but I was a mentee this past year. I really enjoyed being a part of the Honors Mentoring Program and I found it really helpful, especially with the unique freshman year that I had. Hopefully this coming year will be basically normal, but if not I hope to help lead you through it! I’m super excited to meet my group and help however I can. Name: Olivia Solverson Hometown: Pittsburgh, PA Major: Genetics and Psychology, Minor in Criminal Justice Class: 2023 Campus Involvement: On the Executive Board as Parliamentarian of Phi Sigma Pi National Honor Fraternity; President of CURE Clemson; Undergraduate Research in DNA Repair Mechanisms; Clemson Students against Alzheimer’s Bio:Hey everyone! First of all, congrats on being accepted to the Clemson University Honors College and for choosing Clemson! You will not regret it!:) My name is Olivia Solverson and I am a rising junior Genetics and Psychology double major, with a minor in Criminal Justice. I hope to become a Genetic Counselor in either cancer or prenatal genetics. Being from Pittsburgh and going to a pretty small high school, I only knew one other person coming to Clemson. So, I know first-hand what it is like and how intimidating it can be if you are coming from far away. I am involved in research and other clubs/organizations, and would love to give you tips on how you can become involved on campus as well! When I am not studying, I love to spend time with friends, work out (sometimes), and watch tv (especially The Office and Criminal Minds). I can’t wait to show you guys all the amazing things Clemson, and specially the Honors College, has to offer! I’m so excited to get to know you and help you get used to, and love, the college lifestyle - especially during these crazy times. Welcome to Clemson!! Name: Kathleen Wirth Hometown: Cleveland, TN Major: Biochemistry with a Business Administration minor Class: 2022 Campus Involvement: EUREKA! 2018 Research Program, 2020 Hollings Scholar, Dixon Fellows Program, 2020 Dixon Global Policy Scholar, SASH advisor, Youth Leadership Institute outdoor camp counselor, Summer Creative Inquiry & Undergraduate Research, Cooking and Nutrition Club. Bio: Hi there and welcome to Clemson Honors! Congratulations on your acceptance and choice to join such a wonderful program. My name is Kathleen Wirth and I am a senior biochemistry major on a pre-dental track. I hope to attend dental school next year and still be involved in some kind of research. During my time at Clemson, I got the opportunity to be heavily involved in research both during the school year and every summer through Clemson programs as well as internships and scholarships. I have done industrial-organizational psychology research at the Prisma Health hospital system in Greenville, SC, materials science chemistry research through a NASA program, global warming research at Clemson, plant senescence biochemistry research at Clemson, and will be conducting research on artificial coral reefs at a NOAA (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) facility summer 2021. I also plan STEM outreach events for NASA. I was in very similar shoes to yours as a freshman. Especially as an out of state student knowing no one coming to Clemson, the peer mentor program helped give me the resources, connections, guidance, and community to be successful and feel at home on campus. As a Peer Mentor, I will be your guide to conquering all the uncertainties of freshman year and beyond! We will have fun events from getting free food, to movie nights, game nights, and taking a trip to the lake. I am always down to go get some tasty food out or even chef it up in the Honors College kitchen and love being active outdoors either hiking/running, kayaking on the lake, or playing beach volleyball. We will also have career-oriented meetings such as resume, internship, and scholarship informational workshops. In my group, you will form lasting connections with the other group members and will have someone that you can always come to for help, whatever that may be. Take it from someone who once didn't know how to register for classes, know what textbooks to order online, ride the Catbus, or know that renting kayaks at Y-beach is FREE, having an upperclass peer mentor on your side can be an incredibly useful and fun resource. I can show you how to use all of the resources on campus, how to get involved in research, and how to score some amazing paid internships for the summer or even scholarships. This is not a class and does not have mandatory meetings. It can be as enjoyable and positively impactful of an experience as you want it to be, so join the Peer Mentor program be my mentee if you're ready to be involved and have an exciting, stress-free freshman year at Clemson! I'm thrilled to have another amazing year at Clemson and am excited to meet you all! Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Degrees within the Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business School of Accountancy Department of Finance John E. Walker Department of Economics Management Marketing Graphic Communications Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Meet the Mentors Name: Rose Cooper Hometown: Irmo, SC Majors: Marketing, Economics Minor: Brand Communications Graduation Date: 2023 Campus Involvement: RUF campus ministries (worship leader, small group leader), Women In Business, Clemson University Marketing Association, part time babysitter Bio: Hey guys! My name is Rose Cooper and I am so excited to be an honors mentor for 2021-2022. This past year, I had the privilege of joining an honors mentor group within which I made many great relationships and gained a vast knowledge of the opportunities offered by the honors college. It was such an uplifting environment to debrief from the craziness of an academically rigorous and pandemic filled year. I am honored to be a part of this leadership team so that I may help anyone who is confused or anxious about both the social and academic environment of Clemson. As far as getting to know me, I love shopping, warm weather, donuts, and anything that allows me to spend quality time with people. My absolute favorite part about this program is that it allowed me to meet people who could give me advice about professors/classes, career opportunities, and become some of my closest friends. I can't wait to meet y'all this fall! Name: Hannah Gertz Hometown: Chicago, IL / Greenville, SC Major: Economics Minors: Political theory and philosophy Class: 2022 Campus Involvement: CUSG, The Penduluum, Moot Court CI, Pre-Law Society and Athletic Department Tutoring! Bio: Hey y'all! My name is Hannah, and I am so excited to be returning as one of the honors mentors this year. I am a third year economics major with plans to attend law school post-Clemson. As you can see, I have a good bit of campus involvement, so I am happy to answer any questions you have about getting involved on campus, classes to take, or anything Clemson related! Outside of school, I love watching sports (esp. Clemson FB!), fashion, and photography! Looking forward to meeting you all this Fall! Name: Logan Stuckey Hometown: Charlotte, NC Major: Financial Management Minor: Biology Graduation Year: 2023 Campus Involvement: Clemson Club Tennis, Women In Business Club, Foundation for International Medical Relief of Children (FIMRC) Club, Intramural sports Bio: Hey everyone! Welcome to the Clemson family!! My name is Logan and I am a rising junior majoring in finance and minoring in biology. I was a biology major my freshman year, but ended up deciding medical school was not the path I wanted to take. I consider choosing Clemson as one of the best decisions I have ever made and being a part of the honors college makes it all the better. I am so excited to meet y'all and I hope you also come to feel like Clemson is your second home! I have played tennis most of my life, so I am very involved with club tennis, where I have met most of my best friends, who are now my roommates (we will be living in Earle). I have helped plan social events for club tennis and consider it my "greek life" since I did not join a sorority. My other favorite activities are singing, going out on the lake, playing guitar, watching football or basketball, being very social, and traveling. I would love to give y'all advice for classes, professors, club involvement, social life, and anything else you need, even if it is just a study buddy. Go tigers!! “ “Our leadership team and group of mentors are looking forward to helping you start the year off strong and be comfortable and confident on campus. Having had a mentor my freshman year and been a mentor for the past two years, I can tell you that this program is special. I hope that you will choose to join the Honors Peer Mentor Program and take advantage of the resources and support of the Clemson Honors community.” Julia Thompson Peer Mentor President, Bioengineering - Biomaterials Concentration Major Class of 2022 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson