Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives About the Law Library Arthur W. Diamond Law Library About the Law Library Welcome to the Arthur W. Diamond Law Library at Columbia Law School. The second-largest academic law library in the country, the Diamond Law Library features more than 400,000 titles, 1 million paper volumes, and 275,000 microform volume-equivalents. Users also have access to a wealth of online information from sources the Law Library maintains and the myriad of materials offered through Columbia University’s libraries. Librarians are here to guide you through the collections. Please observe the few rules we have, and share with us any suggestions you have for making the Diamond Law Library a more effective place for legal research and study. Hours Law Library and Reference Office hours vary during holidays and exams and between academic semesters. Consult our live calendars for the most up-to-date information. Law Library and Circulation Desk Reference Desk All Law Library services end 10 minutes before closing, including the Circulation Desk and photocopy machines. Directions Location Columbia Law School (Morningside Heights campus) Jerome L. Greene Hall, 3rd floor Amsterdam Avenue and West 116th Street Take the stairs or the elevator up to the third floor. The entrance to the Law Library is located in the northwest corner of the main corridor. Directions to the Morningside Heights Campus Columbia Law School is easily accessible via public transportation and car. For detailed driving directions, see Columbia's Morningside Heights visitor information before your campus visit. About Arthur W. Diamond Arthur W. Diamond ’26, who served as a captain in the United States Army Corps of Engineers during World War II, was a real estate developer and benefactor to many organizations. He worked with his brothers, Harold and Sidney ’22, to expand their family’s real estate business, which included apartment houses and shopping centers in Manhattan, Queens, and the Bronx. Before his death in 1996, Mr. Diamond was involved with many charities. He donated funds to rehabilitate the Angel of the Waters statue in Central Park’s Bethesda Fountain and gave significant gifts to Lenox Hill Hospital and New York Hospital. He and Sidney provided funds through the Diamond Brothers Foundation to establish the Diamond Classroom, located on the eighth floor of Columbia Law School. A gift of $7 million has been made to Columbia Law School by Miriam and Arthur W. Diamond Charitable Trust, which Jack Adelman and Jay H. McDowell serve as trustees. For More Information Library and Circulation Desk Hours Reference Desk Hours Pegasus Catalog Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.