Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Procurement Car Rental In an effort to maintain a high level of service while positively impacting our overall costs, Clemson University has partnered with National Car Rental and Enterprise Rent-A-Car as primary rental car suppliers. This partnership allows us to consolidate spending, simplify program management, and significantly reduce our annual car rental expenditures. Through your feedback from the survey we have made some enhancements to the current program. Enhancements to Current program: **Clemson University Rentals Only** Online Reservations to make rental reservations. Mileage Calculator to help decide the most cost-effective way of traveling by automobile. Enterprise FAQ to get assistance on your frequently asked questions. Before Hour Pick-Ups — Cars can be rented from the Enterprise office before operating hours. Forward your confirmation to the branch (EnterpriseRentACar-26CU@ehi.com) to coordinate actual pick up/return time. Note: rentals that begin over the weekend require a 2-day minimum charge. Example: 6AM early departure Monday may pick up keys Friday afternoon for early Monday use. After Hour Drop-Offs — Cars can be returned after normal business hours. Please let the Enterprise Representative know when the reservation is made and/or picked up. Keys should be left in the drop box and the pink copy should be left in the car stating what time the vehicle was returned. Fuel — It is requested by the university that all vehicles go out on a full tank and are returned; with a full tank. Gas will be charged at pump price if returned with less than a full tank, but it is strongly encouraged to replenish the fuel that is used. Tolls - Toll charges are NOT allowed on the P-Card. Tolls will need to be paid by the traveler and submitted with your travel reimbursement request. Faculty/Staff Business Rental — As faculty and staff you do have the option to utilize the Clemson pump and receive a cheaper price than if charged pump price. In order to use the option a form MUST be completed and given to Enterprise at time of drop off (or left with vehicle if dropped off after hours). *Note this does not apply to individual students, student groups, or any other vendors. This option is only available to Staff that has the ability to be billed for the fuel and is for a valid business rental. The Clemson University contract provides set rates for business use and will be honored at all National Car Rental and Enterprise Rent-A-Car locations globally when using account number XZ26087. THIS CONTRACT IS MANDATORY FOR RENTALS ORIGINATING IN SOUTH CAROLINA & PREFERRED FOR RENTALS ORIGINATING OUT-OF-STATE. Be sure you are using this account number when you set up a reservation. You do not get our rates and insurance coverage simply by renting with National/Enterprise. Frequent Renter Programs — This will ensure you receive the appropriate rates, services and benefits every time you rent. Click the enrollment link to access the online application and complete the enrollment process. This will take approximately 5 minutes and your membership will be active immediately upon completion. *Note: If asked to enter a credit card, you will need to enter a personal card, not your P-Card!* Emerald Club As part of our preferred status, you are invited to a complementary membership into the Emerald Club® Program, which is designed to make your car rental experience faster and more convenient. If you are not already an Emerald Club member, please enroll today using the link below. https://www.nationalcar.com/offer/XZ26087 Already a member? Click here to connect your Emerald Club profile to the Clemson contract. Select “Sign In” and then “Get Started” to confirm you would like to update your profile with our company account. Have elevated status with another travel program? Once your Emerald Club profile is linked to the Clemson contract, click here and we will match your status with a car, hotel or airline loyalty program with the equivalent tier in Emerald Club. Ordering and Additional Information below: Decision Tree — flowchart designed to help you choose which purchasing method should be used. Disbursement Grid — grid used as an aid to assess availability of the type of University funds prior to making commitments. Exemption List — may be applicable to your purchase 31. Travel for Athletic Department (includes rental of buses, airplanes, and any other mode of transportation for team travel). Home Faculty / Staff How to Buy/Pay Travel FAQ Contact Us Related Links Office of the VP for Finance and Operations CUBS Disbursements Taxes Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram