Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Home UW Research Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Certificate in Research Administration Certificate in Research Administration Close Menu Home Collaborative for Research Education Certificate in Research Administration Certificate Curriculum Guide Communities of Practice Meet Our Trainers Always check the CORE registration page for the most up-to-date schedule information. Email corehelp@uw.edu with any questions regarding CORE coursework. About This Certificate Gain a foundational understanding of research administration practices, policies and resources at the UW. This Certificate Program will support campus departments and central units to align practices, share expertise across units, and support UW learners in forging career pathways for themselves. Who should pursue this Certificate? The certificate can be useful to all audiences. Experienced administrators may want to refresh their knowledge in foundational areas covered by the certificate while staff who are new to research administration, or staff with experience in research administration elsewhere who are new to the UW can establish a solid foundation of knowledge on which to build on their careers in research administration at the UW. Six Steps to Completing the Certificate Review the CORE Certificate Curriculum Guide webpage to understand the requirements for the Certificate in Research Administration. Enroll in the Certificate in Research Administration by registering on the CORE registration page. Download the CORE Certificate Curriculum Planner to track learning. Register for coursework through the CORE registration page. Complete all required and elective Certificate coursework. To receive a Certificate, learners must complete the coursework within five years from the date of the first course. When you have completed all coursework (required and elective) submit a request for a final Certificate audit to the CORE Program Manager who will respond within two weeks to confirm your completion of the Certificate. How much will this coursework cost me or my department? This Certificate is offered completely free of charge! There will never be a cost associated with any CORE coursework. How many hours/credits will it take to complete the Certificate? Complete 22 hours of required coursework. Complete a minimum of 6 credits of elective coursework (each class = 1 credit). (Note: as of 9/1/21 CORE instituted a program change to move from counting hours to credits. This was necessary to update our systems for tracking completions.) How long do I have to complete the Certificate? To receive a Certificate, learners must complete the coursework within five years from the date of the first course. (We strongly recommend starting with Introduction to Research Administration.) For instance, the Certificate honors coursework taken from Fall 2016 forward, so students who started the Certificate with courses from Fall 2016 need to complete their certificate by Fall 2021 or they will need to update courses taken during 2016. How do I track my progress? There are two ways to track your Certificate coursework: Use the CORE Certificate Curriculum Planner to track course registrations and completions. Request a transcript from CORE Help. There is a two-week turnaround for transcript requests. Transcript data is updated monthly. Cancellation and Late Arrival Policies Cancellation is required no less than three days prior to the class start date. You are required to contact Core Help if the cancellation is less than three days. These courses are in high demand and your cancellation will create space for another attendee. Learners who miss more than 15 minutes of class will not receive course credit. Can I receive prior credit for other courses taken at the UW or elsewhere? UW Professional and Organization Development (POD) courses of the same course title and content will be accepted towards this Certificate (subject to review by the CORE Learning Manager). Please submit POD transcript to CORE Help and request a review from the CORE Learning Manager. To ensure that knowledge gained in pursuit of the Certificate is current, consistent and relevant, no other prior experience assessments will apply. “When people or organizations have invested in themselves, their skills and their experience, it pays off. Ultimately, developing a well-thought-out certification program helps an organization’s employees, customers and members advance the organization’s interests, as well as their own. “ (http://certmag.com/were-certifiable-creating-a-certification-program/Benefits of Certification) Home Collaborative for Research Education Certificate in Research Administration Certificate Curriculum Guide Communities of Practice Meet Our Trainers Quick Links Certificate Enrollment CORE Certificate Curriculum Planner CORE Registration CORE Zoom FAQS Contact Us CORE corehelp@uw.edu 206.616.0804 University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA