COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Elizabeth King Elizabeth King President and CEO, WSU Foundation (316) 978-5670 elizabeth.king@wichita.edu High-Resolution Photo WSU Foundation Website Overview With more than 45 years of experience in higher education, Elizabeth has served as CEO of the Wichita State University Foundation since 1991, becoming president and CEO in 2006. Between 1991 and 2006, Elizabeth also held the title of vice president for university advancement, responsible for the Foundation as well as University Communications and Marketing, the Ulrich Museum of Art and the Board of Trustees. She is the youngest vice president ever named at Wichita State and the second female vice president. Since her arrival, the WSU Foundation’s assets have grown from $54 million to over $420 million. Most recently, she led the Foundation’s Shock the World Campaign, raising nearly $308 million on a goal of $250 million. Active in her community, Elizabeth is past chair of the Salvation Army Advisory Board and past president of the Downtown Rotary Club, from which she received the club’s Service-Above-Self award. She also serves on the board of the Kansas Society for Children with Challenges. At the state level, Elizabeth is a member of the board of directors for the University of Kansas Hospital Authority. In addition, she served for six years on the Investment Advisory Committee for Rotary International (Evanston, IL). She is a member of the Association of Governing Boards, the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) and the Association of Fundraising Professionals. Elizabeth has been recognized professionally by receiving the CASE Commonfund Institutionally-Related Foundation Award (2009) for executive leadership. She was named one of the “50 Kansans You Should Know” in 2012 by Ingram’s, Kansas City’s business magazine. In 2018, Elizabeth was inducted into the Wichita Women in Business Hall of Fame, having been named to the inaugural class in 2003. She is especially grateful to have received the Wichita State University Alumni Association Recognition Award in 2006. Elizabeth earned a Bachelor of Arts from Wheaton College and a Masters of Education and Ph.D. in Higher Education Administration from the University of North Texas. She is married to Don and they have two adult sons, Lance (married to Paula) and Brandon. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©