or by: Colleges, Institutes & Centers Agencies Faculty & Staff RESEARCH AT UCF | Post-Doc Program | Share Feedback Research Commercialization Research Integrity & Compliance Centers & Institutes Research Development Research Foundation Research Integrity & Compliance The Office of Research offers a variety of teams and tools to assure research conducted at UCF adheres with regulatory guidelines and meets the highest standards of responsible conduct Sustainability in Research through Compliance Inappropriate Foreign Influence Providing support to the UCF community by providing guidance related to inappropriate foreign influence and assisting with mitigating the risks related to inappropriate foreign influence. Research Reporting Requirements The University of Central Florida is committed to maintaining a safe and nondiscriminatory learning, living and working environment for all students, employees, registered student organizations, DSOs (Direct Support Organizations), and third-parties. Research Conflict of Interest (COI) Serving to preserve the integrity by mitigating conflicts of interest in order to protect research subjects and maintain the independence of research results. Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Preserving the Public Trust in Science through the Responsible Conduct of Research and fostering an environment of integrity and honesty in all research endeavors. Export Compliance (EC) Striving to educate and conduct research in harmony with export control laws and regulations. Payroll Certification ECC is a web-based technology that intuitively guides certifiers and administrators through the various facets of the certification and reporting process on a periodic basis. Institutional Review Board (IRB) The IRB Committee established to protect the rights and welfare of human participants involved in research. Facility Security Providing support to our customers to safeguard classified information by delivering security training/education and awareness in accordance with the National Industrial Security Program in support of national security. Office of Animal Welfare IACUC is responsible for oversight and evaluation of the University animal care and use program, its procedures and facilities to ensure that they are consistent with the recommendations of the Guide, AWR, PHS Policy, and IACUC Policies. Training CITI Link UCF CITI Course Requirements CITI Single Sign-On Launched 4/8/2015 Contact Information: Compliance Office Institutional Review Board (IRB) Phone: (407) 823-2901 Email: irb@ucf.edu Office of Compliance Doug Backman Director, Office of Compliance Email: dbackman@ucf.edu Phone: (407) 882-1168 Michele Cristinzio Administrative Assistant III to Doug Backman Email: michele.cristinzio@ucf.edu Phone: (407) 823-0332 Financial Compliance, Payroll Certification Mary Stanley Research Data Analyst Email: mary.stanley@ucf.edu Phone: (407) 823-2836 Daniel Sierra Sr. Compliance Manager Email: daniel.sierra@ucf.edu Phone: (407) 882-2015 Sarah Farrell Sr. Compliance Manager Email: Sarah.Farrell@ucf.edu Phone: (407) 823-1833 Kim Descorbeth Research Compliance Specialist I Email: Kim.Descorbeth@ucf.edu Phone: (407) 882-0024 Research Integrity Compliance COI Email: coi@ucf.edu RCR Email: rcr-ucf@ucf.edu HRPP-QIA Email: HRPPQIA@ucf.edu Michelle McLaren Associate Director of Research Integrity Compliance Office of Research Email: Michelle.McLaren@ucf.edu Phone: (407) 882-0051 Annual Report ORC Information Administration Organization Chart Current Funding Opportunities How to Submit a Proposal Access to Huron Grants Funding History FL High Tech Corridor Council UCF Strategic Plan UCF Job Opportunities Mission and Vision Statement Contact Information © 1997 Office of Research & Commercialization. All rights reserved. Address: 12201 Research Parkway, Suite 501 Orlando, FL 32826-3246 Phone: 407.823.3778 Fax: 407.823.3299 Contact | IT Group | Privacy Policy | Site Credit Staff Directory