Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Other Drugs Ketamine What is ketamine? Ketamine (Aka: Cat Tranquilizer, Cat Valium, Jet K, Kit Kat, Purple, Special K, K) is a dissociative anesthetic used in human anesthesia and veterinary medicine. Dissociative drugs are hallucinogens that cause a person to feel detached from reality. Much of the ketamine sold on the street has been diverted from veterinarians’ offices. Ketamine’s chemical structure and mechanism of action are similar to those of PCP. How is ketamine used? Ketamine is snorted or swallowed. Ketamine is odorless and tasteless, so it can be added to beverages without being detected, and it induces amnesia. Ketamine is also considered to be a “date rape” drug due to its ability to sedate and incapacitate someone. Why do people use ketamine? Ketamine produces effects in humans similar to phencyclidine (PCP) such as dream-like dissociative states and hallucinations. It has a number of contradictory effects, including stimulant, sedative, anesthetic, and hallucinogenic properties. Low doses cause impaired attention, learning ability, and memory. At high doses it can cause hallucinations, delirium, and amnesia. What are the short-term effects or risks of using ketamine? Ketamine blocks the neurotransmitter glutamate at one of its receptors, causing a user to feel distanced from his/her environment. But ketamine also causes the user to feel euphoric and insensitive to physical pain. When ketamine is used as an anesthetic in humans, it is used with another drug to prevent hallucinations. As with PCP, people can have bad reactions to ketamine. It impairs a person's ability to drive and can cause agitation, high blood pressure and potentially fatal respiratory problems. Ketamine can also put users in a state called a "k-hole" where they become unable to move or communicate and feel very far away from their body. Some users seek this state, which they consider to simulate a near-death experience, while others find it frightening and disturbing. Because it can render the user unable to move, ketamine has also been used as a date rape drug. It is difficult to regulate a "dose" of ketamine, and there is only a slight difference in dose between the desired effects and an overdose. Ketamine is a depressant at higher doses and can dangerously reduce heart rate and respiratory function. Combining ketamine with other depressants, like alcohol, valium, or GHB, can lead to serious medical consequences. It can also produce delirium, amnesia, impaired motor function or depression at high doses. Are there long-term consequences to using ketamine? There is some anecdotal evidence that low-dose intoxication can impair learning ability, attention, and memory. Like other hallucinogens, ketamine can also cause severe flashbacks. Frequent use and higher doses can cause disruptions in consciousness, leading to neurosis or other mental disorders. How do I recognize problematic ketamine use? Some of the signs of problematic use are: Increased use. More frequent or prolonged use of ketamine. Tolerance. Needing more ketamine to get the same high or reach the desired effect. Premeditation. Spending exaggerated amounts of time thinking about ketamine. Financial instability. Spending more money than you have or intended on ketamine. Failure to fulfill major role obligations. Missing class, work, or failing to fulfill important roles because of ketamine use. Changing social dynamics. Making new friends who consistently use ketamine and/or neglecting old friends who don't. Lack of life satisfaction. Finding it's hard to be happy without ketamine. If you find that you, a friend, or a loved one can't stop using ketamine, remember that there's always help available. Is ketamine addictive? Ketamine users can develop signs of tolerance and craving for the drug, which is evidence of addictive properties. For people who want to feel dissociated from their environment, this drug can be dangerously appealing and there are many reported cases of addiction. Is ketamine illegal? Except for medically relevant and documented reasons, Ketamine is illegal and it is currently a Schedule III drug (drugs with a moderate to low potential for physical and psychological dependence. Schedule III drugs abuse potential is less than Schedule I and Schedule II drugs but more than Schedule IV). Its possession, use, and sale carry heavy prison sentences and fines, as well as disciplinary consequences at Brown. See the Brown University Policy on Drugs on the Student Rights and Responsibilities web site. How do I help a friend who's having trouble with drugs or alcohol? If you are concerned about a friend's drug or alcohol use, this page contains information about different ways to help them. Related Links Dance Safe DanceSafe is a harm-reduction web site centered on drugs found in nightclubs and raves. The site offers drug information, a risk assessment, ecstasy testing kits and e-news. The Good Drugs Guide This British harm-reduction web site provides extensive information on ketamine, including the basics, dangers, mixing with other drugs and links. National Institute on Drug Abuse NIDA drug pages have research reports, statistics and information on addiction. Resources https://www.recovery.org/topics/quitting-ketamine/ https://americanaddictioncenters.org/withdrawal-timelines-treatments/ketamine/ About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, you should call EMS. If you are still wondering, click here. Talking to a Friend About Drinking or Drug Use It's not easy to know what to say when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Click here to learn what to do and what not to do. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook