Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home About TEXAS About TEXAS The University of Texas at Austin, founded in 1883, ranks among the 40 best universities in the world. Like the state it calls home, The University of Texas at Austin is a bold, ambitious leader supporting some 52,000 diverse students, 3,000 teaching faculty, and top national programs across 18 colleges and schools. As Texas’ leading research university, UT attracts more than $650 million annually for discovery. Amid the backdrop of Austin, Texas, a city recognized for its creative and entrepreneurial spirit, the university provides a place to explore countless opportunities for tomorrow’s artists, scientists, athletes, doctors, entrepreneurs and engineers. Mission & Values The mission of The University of Texas at Austin is to achieve excellence in the interrelated areas of undergraduate education, graduate education, research and public service. UT's Core Values Leadership Meet the executive team that is leading our university to new heights and lifting Texas by giving bright students from every part of society a top academic experience. UT's Leaders History Nearly 140 years ago, The University of Texas at Austin opened with one building, eight professors, and 221 students. Today, UT ranks among the top 40 universities in the world. Here’s the short version of how that happened. How We Got Here Traditions Why burnt orange and white? Why a longhorn steer. And where did the name “Bevo” really come from? Texas is rich in traditions that tell the story of our past, even as our eyes are always on the future. Longhorn Traditions Facts & Figures Get the facts about our student body, rankings, academics, research, athletics and campus. By the Numbers Top Public Schools, National Universities U.S. News & World Report, 2021 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our university is dedicated to attracting highly qualified students, faculty and staff with a wide range of backgrounds, ideas and viewpoints. We believe a diverse campus community is critical to the learning experience. Diversity Matters Texas Global Longhorns gain a deeper appreciation of our human diversity and perspectives by engaging with peers and institutions around the world. Texas Global creates opportunities for global connectedness and welcomes a cadre of impressive international students and scholars to campus. TEXAS Global Partnerships We’re stronger when we work together. That’s why Texas values partnerships in education, research and community service — with businesses, our military and veteran connections, community groups and other non-profits to make an even bigger impact on our city, state and world. UT Military and Veteran ConnectionsCorporate Relations Campus Destinations Spend just a minute on our campus and you'll quickly see how The University of Texas at Austin is an immense and beautiful world all its own. And with our dozens of museums, libraries, centers, institutes and special venues spread across the campus and the city, each with its own unique exhibits and programming, you'll never be bored. See what's on campusLook Around Virtual Tour Experience Austin Imagine a city bursting with an entrepreneurial spirit, a commitment to personal freedom and a passion for unearthing new discoveries. Add a vibrant, internationally renowned music, film and art scene, along with a thriving economy that leads the way in the technology, engineering and health care industries. This is the city we're proud to call home. Austin Convention & Visitors Bureau Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022