skip to Main Navigation skip to Main Content skip to Footer Accessibility feedback NC State Home COVID-19 Updates Resources Campus Directory MyPack Portal Campus Map Libraries Campus Resources University Housing NC State Dining Bookstores Wolfline Buses Calendar Diversity Academic Resources Undergraduate Admissions Academic Departments WolfWare/Moodle Global Engagement Distance Education Academic Calendar Other Resources Student Services Center Cashier's Office Registration and Records Scholarships and Financial Aid Career Development Center NC State Help Desk Outreach and Engagement Giving NC State News Graduate School Gmail Access NC State Social Media NC State University Libraries Logo Navigation Search Find & Borrow Search Books & Media Articles Databases Journals Theses and Dissertations NC State Publications Special Collections Our Website Find Course Reserves Newspapers Patents & Trademarks Standards Tests & Measurements Textbooks Ebooks Government Information Borrow & Request Borrowing & Access Privileges Tripsaver Technology Lending Suggest a Purchase Distance Services Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Study & Learn Assignment Help Choose a Topic Cite Sources Evaluate Sources Find Articles Find a Book Ask Us All Assignment Help Workshops Data and Visualization Digital Media Digital Scholarship Makerspace Research Strategy Virtual & Augmented Reality All Workshops Spaces Reserve a Room Academic Success Center Quiet Study Graduate Student Spaces Explore Spaces Sensory Friendly Maps How Busy is the Hill Library? Technology Technology Lending Software Print & Copy Scanning Wireless Access Working off campus Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Research & Teaching Research Support Citation Management Grants & Funding Research Impact & Metrics Publishing and Copyright Data Management Open Research Faculty Spaces All Research Support Teaching Support Request an Instruction Session Copyright in the Classroom Course Reserves Library Instruction Programs Open Education Videos and Tutorials All Teaching Support Workshops Digital Scholarship Research Strategy Data and Visualization Peer Scholars All Workshops Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Media & Making Digital Media Music & Audio Video Gaming Photography Scanning Virtual & Augmented Reality All Digital Media Makerspace 3D Printing 3D Scanning Cutting & Milling Electronics Textiles All Makerspace Workshops 3D Scanning Studio Orientation Digital Media Orientation Makerspace Orientation VR Studio Orientation All Digital Media Workshops All Makerspace Workshops All Virtual & Augmented Reality Workshops Spaces Hill Library Makerspace Innovation Studio VR Studio Digital Media Lab All Media & Making Spaces Help Ask Us Request a Technology Consultation Drop-In Help for Digital Media Data & Visualization Data & Visualization Finding Data Wrangling Data Analyzing Data Visualization Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Data Management Text & Data Mining All Data & Visualization Workshops Data & Visualization Workshops Digital Scholarship Workshops Research Strategy Workshops All Workshops Spaces Data Experience Lab (DXL) Dataspace Teaching & Visualization Lab Visualization Studio iPearl Immersion Theater Game Lab All Data & Visualization Spaces Help Get Data Science Help Data & Visualization Instruction Support About Contact Ask Us Staff Directory Subject Specialists Jobs Fellows Program Collections About the Collections Special Collections Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program Memberships & Consortia Our Organization Mission & Vision Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Service Philosophy Fact Sheet Rules & Guidelines Annual Reports & Strategic Plans Performance Measures Honors & Awards News & Events News Events Exhibits Workshops Videos from the Libraries Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Hunt Library Map Hill Library Map How Busy is the Hill Library? Directions & Parking Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Campus Information Centers Get Involved Giving to the Libraries Friends of the Libraries Student Advisory Forum University Library Committee Academic Departmental Library Representatives Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help FAQ Search Today's Hours Hours My Account Log Out Ask Us Chat Link A literal blast from the past Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Randy Killebrew and his rockets. “Wait… look at that picture. I know that kid.” Randy Killebrew opened the email and paused. The e-newsletter from the Friends of the Libraries (FOL) announced upcoming events including an “A/V Geeks at the Hunt Library” screening of instructional films on makers. And the image next to the program description was an image of him. It’s 1974. A 14-year-old Randy, in a short-sleeved, white dress shirt and wide tie, crouches in a television studio in front of a sawhorse stand bristling with model rockets. A woman in a green print dress kneels next to him, asking about his setup. It’s a still from a television program that the North Carolina Agricultural Extension Program made to feature 4-H kids and their projects, filmed on NC State’s campus during the state 4-H Congress that July. The film is preserved in the Libraries’ Special Collections Research Center (SCRC) and is accessible online as part of the SCRC’s Rare & Unique Digital Collections. In the film, the rising ninth grader from Edgecombe County demonstrates his control box in the five-minute segment, entitled “Rocket Maker.” He sets off the igniters under his six rockets, which briefly flare into flame one by one. Since they were in a studio instead of a field, Killebrew didn’t put engines in the rockets, he explains to the host. “Will this be your life’s work?” she asks. “No, I’d like to go into electrical engineering,” Killebrew says, explaining that he has been rewiring the outbuildings around his family home in Edgecombe County. “Well, maybe you’ll get to go to school at State someday.” “That’s where I’m hoping to go.” And young Killebrew did grow up to attend and graduate from NC State, changing majors from Electrical Engineering to Engineering Operations (‘82). He went on to work in textile manufacturing in roles as a supervisor, process engineer, systems analyst, and later as a plant manager. Then, after much of the textile industry transitioned overseas, Killebrew moved on to pharmaceutical manufacturing with Pfizer, retiring as a strategic inventory manager. He attributes much of his career, which has largely involved computer systems and data analysis, to his early interest in model rockets, electricity, and electronics. “I’ve always been in the Friends of the Libraries, and I get the newsletters and all,” Killebrew says. “The email came in, and I was looking through it at all the good programs—I've always liked the programs that took place on campus, all the hands-on stuff. And I saw the A/V Geeks and scrolled down and saw the picture.” “It just kind of threw me back in time for a minute. And I thought, certainly, I've got to make sure I tune in and see that.” Killebrew sent a screenshot to his son Brad in Apex and his daughter Meg in Kentucky—both of them NC State grads themselves—and they immediately recognized him in the picture. They thought it was a great thing that the Libraries was showing a film of their father. Killebrew’s wife Shelley took a little longer. Killebrew showed her the FOL email and asked if the program looked interesting to her. “Well, I guess if you want to see it,” she said. He asked if anything caught her eye about the program. “Not really. It looks like it's about rockets. You used to like rockets, didn't you?” “Well, yeah… and there’s nothing else?” “Oh, okay, that's you,” she laughed. The title card for the "Rocket Maker" film. After watching the “A/V Geeks at the Hunt Library” episode online, Killebrew corresponded with the A/V Geek himself—Skip Elsheimer. A frequent collaborator with the Libraries, and an NC State alum as well, Elsheimer presents thematic selections of unusual and exemplary classroom instructional films, newsreels, and documentaries and discusses them with faculty members or Libraries staff. He draws upon his legendary private collection and upon the SCRC’s trove of digitized collections as well. Librarians work with Elsheimer to curate the films shown at the events and to help connect the films to the rich storytelling that makes the events so engaging. Killebrew’s episode, originally airing on February 25 and entitled “Let's Talk About Making Things,” can be viewed on the A/V Geeks YouTube channel. His “Rocket Maker” segment starts just after the 19-minute mark. In the real-time chat transcript that runs with the episode, other attendees reminisce about shooting rockets when they were kids, too. “Strangely enough, I do remember it well,” Killebrew says of his 4-H segment. “It came back to me a few years ago, one of those things you think of and kind of wonder whatever happened to that? I figured there probably was no film, you know. I thought, nobody's ever saved that. So that's what really shocked me, is that years ago I was remembering it happening and then suddenly finding out that somebody had held onto the film and that it was actually available out there.” “It's rare but it does happen,” Elshiemer says of vintage film subjects popping up years later in his inbox. “Both with people who appeared in one of my films and those who worked on the films. There are some good stories. What I learned is that some educational films were shot in a school and featured an entire class. And the finished film was never shown to the class. So I have people reach out to get a copy of the film where they never saw themselves.” After showing “Rocket Maker,” Elshiemer and University Library Specialist Justin Haynes discussed how young Killebrew’s tinkering with rocketry exemplifies the lifelong interest in making that drives students to the Libraries’ Makerspace. “It shows that deep-dive mentality that makers have,” Haynes says. “Once someone gets into a hobby—especially model making, recreations, stuff like that—it’s a rabbit hole that people go down.” As Killebrew grew up, his interests moved away from rocketry, but he kept all of his equipment. When his kids got old enough, he got it all out of storage and they shot rockets together. “I guess they really didn't get bitten by the bug,” he says, “But I think I would like to get back with it again with the grandkids when they visit this summer. This brought back some memories. I have an old launchpad and I’ll build a rocket with my five-year-old grandson and eight-year-old granddaughter and just kind of see what they think about it.” The whole experience is a case study in the necessity of preservation efforts, the emotional power of archives, and the significant engagement that the SCRC’s public programs and digitization efforts offer the community. For Killebrew, the experience has been a nostalgic reminder that childhood passions never completely fade—and that they shape one’s life in unpredictable ways. “When I mentioned the show to my son, he said, ‘Dad, are you embarrassed with the fact that you were associated with the geeks?’” Killebrew says. “I've always been a geek, I said. When you look back at it, you think: I probably wasn't as cool as I thought I was at that age, but I was happy with myself and that's what really matters.” Written on Mar 14, 2022 Story Lead Virginia Ferris Interim Lead Librarian for Outreach, Engagement, & Curation Skip Elshiemer A/V Geeks Collaborators Justin Haynes University Library Specialist Trevor Thornton IT Analyst/Programmer II Recent Library Stories The Libraries, now playing on ESPN Read more Subscribe to NC State University Library Stories Top of page Contact D. H. Hill Jr. Library 2 Broughton Drive Campus Box 7111 Raleigh, NC 27695-7111 (919) 515-3364 James B. Hunt Jr. Library 1070 Partners Way Campus Box 7132 Raleigh, NC 27606-7132 (919) 515-7110 Libraries Administration (919) 515-7188 NC State University Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Copyright Privacy Statement Accessibility at the Libraries Accessibility at NC State University Staff Confluence Login Staff Drupal Login Follow the Libraries Facebook Instagram Twitter Snapchat LinkedIn Vimeo YouTube Twitch Flickr Libraries' news ×