Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Application process Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Applying for aid Application process Applying for aid Home Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Undocumented students/other select applicants If you are an Undocumented student/other select applicant student who is not eligible to complete the FAFSA, you may submit a WASFA instead. The priority date is January 15 for the upcoming school year. You can still file after that date but you will not be considered for priority aid. University of Washington students use the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to apply for financial aid. The FAFSA should be received at the federal processor by January 15 for priority consideration for our aid programs for the upcoming school year. To apply, go to https://studentaid.gov/ and follow the directions to file the FAFSA (and signature page if directed to do so). You will need an FSA ID to log in. To apply for an FSA ID from the U.S. Department of Education. If your parents have to provide their information, they can apply for an FSA ID also. File your FAFSA as soon after October 1 as possible, noting University of Washington, Code 003798 on the form. This school code is used for all UW campuses. Application for financial aid is separate from application for admission. For priority consideration, you must meet our financial aid date (your FAFSA must be dated and received by the Federal Processor by January 15 for the upcoming school year) even if you don’t know whether you will be accepted for admission. To qualify for financial aid, you must be admitted to the university at our Seattle, Bothell or Tacoma campus in an approved degree or certificate program (most non-matriculated students are not eligible for student aid), and meet minimum enrollment requirements. If you do not want to use FAFSA on the Web, you can obtain a paper version FAFSA from a high school counselor, a local college, or by calling 1-800-4FEDAID. All applications must be received by the federal processor by January 15 for the upcoming school year for priority consideration for our aid programs. Multiple Schools The FAFSA limits the number of schools you can list to 10. If you are applying to more schools than this, after the first FAFSA is processed, you can go back and add the additional schools. The new schools will replace one or more of the previous school codes listed. Schools have different priority filing dates, so when determining the order to add schools to your FAFSA, keep in mind these dates. Student Aid Report (SAR) from the federal processor You will receive an e-mail to access Student Aid Report (SAR) information after you send in your FAFSA. If an e-mail address was not supplied, a paper SAR will be mailed. You must make any corrections requested on the form and mail or transmit it back as directed. You should correct any estimated income data when actual data is available. In addition, correct your name (which should match the name the Social Security Administration has for you), social security number and date of birth if inaccurate. Award notices We begin sending award notifications in the spring and continue through the summer. Generally, this will be sent to you electronically so please check your UW e-mail and MyUW regularly. The award notice shows you the types and amount of aid you are eligible to receive. Your award may be an estimate until we complete the review of your FAFSA information. Please accept your aid as directed, even if you are requesting or expecting changes. Unaccepted awards are subject to cancellation. Review process You may be asked at any time to submit documents or other information to be used in the review of your application. Please respond to any request as soon as possible; review of your file may be delayed until all requested documents are submitted. The volume of material to be reviewed is substantial and we appreciate your patience during the review process. Disbursement of aid Financial aid generally begins disbursing one week prior to the first day of the quarter. To have your aid disbursed, you must have been awarded and have accepted your aid, not have any holds on your aid, if you are borrowing loans have completed required entrance counseling and signed promissory notes, and are registered for the minimum required credits. See here for more details on aid disbursement. Summer financial aid If you want financial aid for Summer Quarter a separate application is required. See Summer Quarter for more information. Late applicants, part-time students and 5th year students In general, students whose FAFSAs are received after January 15, part-time and post-baccalaureate (5th year) students are considered for limited types of aid. After January 15, we recommend that the FAFSA be submitted as early as possible before the beginning of the quarter in which you wish to receive aid. Less than full-time students and late applicants with exceptional circumstances may contact our office. Home Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Resources Applying for Financial Aid Parent Plus Loan New Borrowers of Federal Student Loans Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA