HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation FACILITIES Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Fitness Center Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Hours Facility Counts Floor Plan FITNESS AND WELLNESS Group Fitness F45 Small Group Training Fitness Assessments Personal Training Wellness Zone INTRAMURAL SPORTS CORE CORE Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CLUB SPORTS Club Sports Homepage Club Officer Resources Visiting Team Resources Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CORE Adventure Trips Who Can Register for Trips: A person may register for a trip if they have an active Campus Recreation membership. If a person is a full–time Clemson student, the membership fee will automatically be charged to their student account each semester. For all others, memberships may be purchased at Fike Recreation Center. Current membership rates can be found here. Trip size is limited and registration is on a first–come, first–serve basis. How to Register for a Trip: Please use the Calendar to browse for trip details and dates. Once you have found a trip you would like to register for click on the link for the Registration Portal to register online. If you would like to register in person, please visit the CORE office at the Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Center during our open hours. Trips are scheduled during Fall, Spring and Summer Semesters. If you missed one this semester look for similar trip offerings next semester. Don't forget to register well in advance as trips fill quickly! Trip Registration Click here to view the Online Registration Portal Trip Cancellation Policy: CORE reserves the right to cancel a trip or clinic due to inclement weather, natural disasters, or extenuating circumstances. If a trip or clinic is canceled, a full refund will be provided to those registered. Trip Refund Policy: Participants are responsible for understanding the cancellation and refund policy for the CORE trip(s) they are registering for. A FULL refund will be given for day trips that are canceled more than 10 BUSINESS DAYS before the date of the trip. Cancellations that occur within 10 BUSINESS DAYS of the trip’s departure will receive NO REFUND regardless of the circumstances. Multi-day trip participants will receive a full refund if they cancel seven days before the scheduled pre-trip meeting date, minus the non-refundable deposit fee. Multi-day trip registrations are non-refundable for participants that cancel less than seven days before the scheduled pre-trip meeting date. A refund may be given after this time if a replacement can be found from the trip’s waitlist. CORE does not issue refunds for trips that are not attended. CORE reserves the right to not issue a refund at the discretion of the program administrators. Outdoor adventure activities can be exciting and rewarding, but may also be physically demanding and potentially dangerous. While our highest priority is given to safety, participants need to be aware of the inherent risks associated with participation in outdoor recreation activities, as well as the responsibility they assume for their own safety and well-being. Participants are responsible for medical or other costs arising out of bodily injury, illness, or property damage that may be sustained as a result of their voluntary participation, and they are required to sign a Release and Waiver of Liability/Informed Consent. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster