Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News > In the News > 2022 > Experts encourage moms to prioritize self-care this Mother’s Day News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift Experts encourage moms to prioritize self-care this Mother’s Day May 6, 2022 – With the approach of the third Mother’s Day since the pandemic started, experts are encouraging parents to prioritize self-care to combat the added parenting stressors caused by COVID-19, improve their physical and mental health, and help them show up as better parents for their children. “Even in the best of circumstances, it’s really hard to be a mother,” said Natalie Slopen, assistant professor social and behavioral sciences at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, in a May 3, 2022 article in HealthDay. “The pandemic has presented a host of challenges that most people hadn’t imagined they would experience while parents.” The article offered tips for mothers such as leaning on others for support and prioritizing quiet time alone to mitigate stress. “We need to attend to our own physical and mental health,” Slopen said. She added that a mother who’s struggling can’t be the best parent she can be—which means that self-care isn’t selfish. “It’s essential for the well-being of your family members,” she said. Read the HealthDay article: AHA News: 5 Ways to Support, Relieve and Remember Moms on Mother’s Day Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Subscribe The COVID-19 Update Our researchers are on the front lines of the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sign up here to receive our weekly newsletter highlighting their efforts. Join mailing list Additional newsletters and mailing lists Related Articles COVID-19 mental health stress Machine learning tool can predict which COVID variants will cause case surges ‘Ebola hunter’ Jean-Jacques Muyembe receives Harvard honorary degree The latest on the coronavirus More on this topic Probing disease disparities Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity and mental health care for minority populations Opinion: How climate action can improve children’s health More on this topic Cancer FactFinder website launched to provide fact-based, reliable information about causes of cancer Ukraine’s humanitarian crisis Deep breathing and downward dog—prison inmates de-stress with yoga More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College