Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Dispute Resolution Master's Degree Master's Degree Admissions & Financial Information Course Descriptions Curriculum Study Abroad Academic Calendar Course and Seminar Schedule Dispute Resolution & Conflict Management Scholarships Grad. Certificate Grad. Certificate Admissions & Financial Information Course Descriptions Course & Seminar Schedule Curriculum Scholarships Executive & Leadership Coaching Faculty & Staff Apply ☰ Master of Arts in Dispute Resolution Dispute Resolution & Conflict Management Graduate Studies Academics Dispute Resolution & Conflict Management Graduate Studies Master of Arts in Dispute Resolution Conflict is Everywhere. Opportunity is Here. U.S. News & World Report has cited dispute resolution as one of the fastest-growing academic disciplines of the new millennium. Organizations are increasingly aware of the importance of positive interactions to enhance productivity, financial success, and personal satisfaction in the context of any professional or personal endeavor or relationship. All of these factors indicate that dispute resolution is one of the most marketable skills in today’s world of business and commerce. Contact Us Course and Seminar Schedule Apply Now “Enhanced skills in negotiation, communication and management theory can be used in all aspects of your life and career.” – Tom Hartsell, JD Clinical Associate Professor In 2006, SMU became the first university in the southwest region of the United States to offer an interdisciplinary Master’s degree in dispute resolution and conflict management. The SMU Center for Dispute Resolution and Conflict Management provides students with in-depth study of conflict theory as well as ample options for further specialization in areas such as organizational conflict, social services conflict, international conflict and dispute resolution in education. Students learn the arts of negotiation, problem solving, mediation, arbitration, systems design, and many other applications of dispute resolution. The program actively incorporates role-plays from varied aspects of human relationships to engage the student in class participation. These exercises provide students with the skill and training necessary to become adept at the art of conflict resolution. The Dispute Resolution program curriculum emphasizes the development of skills vital to the resolution of business, domestic, education, management, public policy, church, legal, and healthcare disputes. The quality and uniqueness of the coursework stems, in significant measure, from its multidisciplinary approach to the study of conflict management. Rooted in the social and behavioral sciences, the faculty and curriculum integrates such diverse fields as psychology, team building, law, sociology, management theory, organizational development, public policy, and economics. Organizations are increasingly aware of the importance of conflict management processes and facilitating collaboration to enhance productivity, financial success, and personal satisfaction in their employees. All of these factors indicate that dispute resolution is one of the most marketable skills in today’s world of business and commerce. Dispute Resolution News More news Master of Arts in Dispute Resolution Admissions & Financial Information Course Descriptions Curriculum Study Abroad Academic Calendar Course and Seminar Schedule Scholarships Upcoming Events Request info Contact the Dispute Resolution Program Call or Email Us 214-768-4500 disputeresolution@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us SMU East Campus 6116 N. Central Expressway Suite 300 Dallas, Texas 75206 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter