Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Giving Home Giving Giving Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies Boston College Call Center Investing in Our Future Every victory at Boston College, whether it’s in the classroom, in a research lab, or on the playing field, is made possible by the generosity of our alumni and parent community. Your support allows us to invest in our athletic teams, fund research opportunities, and award financial aid to thousands of deserving students. However you choose to give, we thank you for investing in the future of BC. Give Now Make a Planned Gift CARES Act How To Give Choose a giving method that works for you to make a one time gift or a pledge payment. Phone and Mail Online Stocks IRA Rollover Matching Gifts Corporations/Foundations By phone All you need is your credit card and our toll-free number: 888-752-6438. NOTE: You can also make a donation, update your contact information, and talk about your BC experience with a BC student volunteer. Keep an eye out for a call from our new phone number, 617-552-2015. Thank you! By U.S. mail To send a check, please make your check payable to "Boston College," and mail to: Boston College Office of University Advancement Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 One Time Gift Every annual gift supports current and future students along with the unique mission of Boston College. Make an annual gift Pledge Payment Make a payment toward a previous commitment. Make a pledge payment Monthly Gift Recurring gifts combine the ease of installments with the convenience of automatic renewal. Make a Recurring Gift Memorial Gift If you would like to make a gift in memory of a deceased member of the BC family, please visit www.bc.edu/give. Type in the first and last name into the In memory of field. If you would like for us to notify the family of your gift, please provide as much of their contact information as possible. If you prefer to make your gift via phone or U.S. mail, please be sure to mention/include the above information in your correspondence. Note: The amount of your gift will not be shared with the family. If you have any questions, please contact Allison Donlan in the Office of Stewardship & Donor Engagement at allison.donlan@bc.edu or 617-552-8083. For Securities Held by your Bank or Broker 1) Simply provide your broker with detailed instructions of the gift that you would like to make to BC, including the name of the stock and the number of shares to be transferred from your account to Boston College's at: Fidelity Investments, National Financial Services Corp. DTC (Depository Trust Company) #0226 Account #201973114, Trustees of Boston College Reference: Donor's Name 2) Then, please contact the Boston College Office of Gift Processing at 617-552-3440 or uagifts@bc.edu to let us know the name of the stock and the number of shares that you will be transferring to the BC account at Fidelity. This information will help us provide you with proper gift acknowledgment on a timely basis. For Securities Held by You If you hold a stock certificate, please send it to us with a stock power form. For safety and simplicity, you should send the certificate and stock power form in separate envelopes. 1) Send your certificate(s) without any endorsement, assignment, or other notation to: Office of Gift Processing Boston College Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Attn: Stock Gift Administration Please enclose a letter including the designation of your gift. 2) Download and print out a stock power form, one for each separate security, if applicable. 3) Sign the stock power exactly as your name appears on the certificate and leave the rest of the form blank. 4) Mail the signed stock power in a separate envelope, along with a copy of the letter that accompanied the certificate, to the address above. Note: Your gift is valued in accordance with IRS guidelines. Gifts of securities that are held for more than one year may be deducted at the full market value. For wire transfers, please contact Blair Pekala at 617-552-3464 or uagifts@bc.edu for our Bank of America account number and ABA Routing number. IRA Charitable Rollover Now Permanent Under recent federal legislation, you can use your Individual Retirement Account (IRA) to make a gift to your favorite charitable institutions, including Boston College. Who is eligible and what are the guidelines? You must be 70½ years of age or older at time of distribution Total charitable gifts cannot exceed $100,000 per taxpayer each year Transfers from traditional and Roth IRAs must be made directly from the account administrator to Boston College What benefits will I enjoy? Satisfy your required minimum distribution Avoid federal and, in many cases, state income taxes Provide critical support to the BC department, school, or initiative of your choice How can I make my gift? Contact your IRA administrator to request that a charitable distribution be transferred to Boston College Instruct your IRA administrator to indicate the donor’s name on the check and specify that the gift is an IRA charitable distribution to ensure gifts are properly recognized and recorded Send your check to: Boston College Office of Gift Processing Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Boston College Tax ID: 04-2103545 Note: The IRA charitable rollover is federal law; state and local law may not provide the same benefits. Examples to help you: To assist donors interested in making a charitable gift from their IRA, we have provided the following examples: Sample Request from Plan Owner (typically the donor or their representative) to IRA Administrator Sample Letter from Donor Informing BC of IRA Transfer Questions? To discuss your giving options in confidence, please contact the Office of Gift Planning at 877-304-SHAW or giftplanning@bc.edu. If you prefer, simply fill out the form below and a member from our gift planning team will reach out to you shortly. Many employers sponsor matching gift programs and will match any charitable contributions made by their employees. To find out if your company has a matching gift policy, please enter your employer's name below. If your employer or your spouse's employer has a matching gift program, your gift to Boston College may be doubled or even tripled. Your employer’s human resources department can supply you with specific instructions about its process for matching gifts. In some cases, a spouse's company will also match the gift. The Office of Corporate and Foundation Relations serves as the central point of contact for corporate and foundation philanthropic engagement with Boston College. Visit Our Corporate and Foundation Giving Site BC's Giving Societies The 1863 Society The 1863 Society recognizes annual leadership donors who make an investment in the University with a gift of $1,000 or more. Membership in the 1863 Society gives you direct access to the University and makes an immediate impact on the student experience. The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society celebrates and recognizes Boston College's most loyal donors—those alumni, parents, and friends who have made a gift, at any level, for any purpose, for two or more consecutive years. The Shaw Society Now more than 2,800 members strong, the Shaw Society honors Joseph Coolidge Shaw, S.J., who helped establish Boston College with his legacy gifts of books and the proceeds of his life insurance policy. Members receive updates on the latest campus news, among other exclusive benefits. BC Law Giving Societies The Boston College Law School giving societies—Dean’s Council and Drinan Society—honor BC Law’s most generous and most loyal donors. Dean’s Council members play an important role in shaping the future of BC Law, receive campus updates, and attend exclusive events throughout the year. The Drinan Society recognizes loyal donors who support BC Law in two or more consecutive years. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok