Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Events Orientation Orientation Graduate Student Orientation Welcome to SMU! As a graduate student at SMU, you are a part of the Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies. The 2022 orientation for incoming students in the Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies will be held online on SMU’s Canvas learning management system. Modules about university resources and requirements for new students will be available to incoming graduate students starting Wednesday, August 10. Live panel and Q&A sessions on specific topics, like advice from current graduate students and professors, will be scheduled to take place the week of Monday, August 8. These live sessions will be recorded and posted on Canvas afterwards. Incoming students will receive instructions for accessing the orientation Canvas site and a schedule of live sessions over the summer. Participation in the virtual orientation is mandatory for all incoming students in programs in the Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences and for incoming international students in Lyle School of Engineering programs. All other incoming graduate students in the Lyle School of Engineering, the Meadows School of the Arts, and the Simmons School of Education and Human Development are strongly encouraged to participate. Incoming students who complete the virtual orientation are also invited to a welcome luncheon on Friday, August 19, from 12-2pm, in the Mack Ballroom in the Umphrey Lee Center. The luncheon is a good opportunity to meet the Moody School staff and to socialize with other new students. Continuing student “ambassadors” will also be on hand to welcome you and to answer questions about graduate student life at SMU. We look forward to meeting you both virtually at orientation and in person soon! Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share