Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Financial Aid Federal School Code: 003425 Academic Common Market The Academic Common Market (ACM) is a Southern Regional Education Board (SREB) program that has been in place for over 35 years and allows out-of-state students to pay the equivalent of in-state, resident fees in specialized fields. The Academic Common Market is currently available for incoming graduate students and first-time freshmen only. Application Process There are specific steps that you, a prospective student must take. After you have received your acceptance letter, go to the Academic Common Market website. You can check participating institutions and states through a search engine. Select your home state. From the ACM start page, select your home state and select: State Information. The state information will provide a link to the state’s ACM website and state coordinator. This is where you will find all the procedures and forms for application and approval. This process is referred to as the “certification process”. Next, search for approved Clemson University programs, but keep the following in mind: Many states do not review and approve programs until a student requests the review. So if your home state has not reviewed a Clemson degree program, you can request it be considered for the Academic Common Market by contacting your home state ACM coordinator. Once you have been approved by your home state ACM Coordinator, Clemson University will be notified of your approval and you will receive a letter as well. Please check out these frequently asked questions developed by the ACM. Eligible Majors You can view a list of the current eligible majors for graduate students. The following programs are approved for undergraduates: Graphic Communications Language and International Health: Chinese, French and Spanish Parks, Recreation, and Tourism Management Plant and Environmental Sciences: Soil and Water Science Sports Communications Scholarships Available Currently, any eligible Graduate student can receive an ACM waiver pending their acceptance by Clemson University into an eligible ACM major. First-time freshmen awards are limited and are subject to funding approved by the University. Participating States There are changes made to the ACM every year. North Carolina no longer participates in the ACM and several states participate at the graduate level only. Click a state below to see ACM contact information for that state [Alabama] [Arkansas] [Delaware] [Florida] [Georgia] [Kentucky] [Louisiana] [Maryland] [Mississippi] [Oklahoma] [South Carolina] [Tennessee] [Texas] [Virginia] [West Virginia] Student Financial Aid Information Jeff Holliday Director of Scholarships G-01 Sikes Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-2280 South Carolina ACM Coordinator Saundra Carr SC Commission on Higher Education 1122 Lady Street, Suite 300 Columbia, SC 29201 803-737-2274 CHE Academic Common Market Information Home Types of Students Types of Aid Aid Eligibility Deadlines and Timeline Costs Forms and Resources Summer Session Aid Terms and Conditions FAQ Contact Us Consumer Information Related Links iROAR Financial Literacy Residency Classification Accepted Students International Services Graduate School Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram