Skip To Main Content www.research.iastate.edu Open Search Box View our Twitter View our Facebook View our Instagram View our Youtube Channel Open Mobile Menu View our Twitter View our Facebook View our Instagram View our Youtube Channel Office of ResearchEthics The Office of Research Ethics (ORE) supports ethical research practice at Iowa State University through a variety of research integrity programs. Research Integrity Conduct that jeopardizes research integrity undermines the advancement of knowledge, erodes public support, wastes resources and may jeopardize safety and health. For this reason, Iowa State University prohibits research misconduct and encourages all members of the University community to report observed, suspected, or apparent research misconduct. Research misconduct means fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism in proposing, performing, or reviewing research or in reporting research results. It also includes ordering, advising or suggesting that subordinates engage in research misconduct. The misconduct must depart significantly from accepted practices of the relevant research community and must be committed intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly. It does not include honest error or differences of opinion. Allegations of research misconduct are handled by a Research Integrity Officer (RIO) appointed by the Vice President for Research. All members of the University community are encouraged to report observed, suspected, or apparent research misconduct to the RIO. If an individual is unsure whether a suspected incident falls within the definition of research misconduct, he or she may meet with or contact the RIO to discuss the suspected research misconduct. All information regarding possible instances of research misconduct, including the identity of the person accused and the individual making the allegation, is confidential. ISU prohibits retaliation against individuals who make allegations of research misconduct in good faith and any witnesses or others who cooperate in good faith with research misconduct proceedings. For further information or to discuss a concern, contact the Iowa State Research Integrity Officer (RIO) Dianah Ngonyama at rio@iastate.edu or 515-294-2069. Research misconduct concerns may also be reported on the ISU Compliance and Ethics Hotline. Resources ORI Introduction to the Responsible Conduct of Research by Nicholas Steneck: This is a “must read” introduction to responsible research suitable for students, postdocs, early career investigators, and others who care about responsible research. It covers authorship practices, mentoring, data management, use of humans and animals in research, research misconduct, etc. The Lab: Avoiding Research Misconduct: This interactive video allows the viewer to play four different roles in a case of suspected research misconduct. It is a highly enjoyable and informative exercise and a “must view” for students, postdocs, principal investigators, and others who suspect a colleague of research misconduct. It also looks into the pressures facing researchers and errors made by principal investigators that can lead to misconduct. Responding to Research Wrongdoing: A User-Friendly Guide: This guide helps persons who suspect a colleague of cutting corners decide whether and how to approach the suspect informally, potentially stopping misconduct before it happens. It also explains what happens if misconduct occurs and must be handled formally. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Research Integrity: This site, maintained by the lead federal organization for assuring research integrity, contains a wide variety of information for faculty, students, and administrators on the responsible conduct of research and research misconduct. Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) RCR Training: Online modules that cover a variety of aspects of the responsible conduct of research. ISU Research Misconduct Policies Contacts Associate Director: Brooke Langlitz Phone: 515-294-7793 Administrative Specialist: Bette Maybee Phone: 515-294-1516 U.S Mail: 2420 Lincoln Way, Ste. 202 Ames, Iowa 50014 Campus Mail: 202 Kingland Resources Conflicts of Interest COIC Disclosure Instructions (PDF) COIC Reviewer Instructions (PDF) Oversight Committees (PDF) COIC Department Management Plan – Employee Rights and Responsibilities (PDF) COIC Management Plan Guide for COIC Disclosure Reviewers (PDF) International Activities and Collaborations Memo International Activities and Collaborations FAQ Export Controls Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Summary of Current FAA UAS Rules Unmanned Aircraft Systems Regulations FAQ Iowa State University 2610 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Rd. Ames, Iowa 50011 E. vpr@iastate.edu P. 515-294-6344 Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy.