Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Contraception Condoms What are condoms? A condom is a sheath-like covering, usually made of a thin but strong latex rubber that fits over an erect penis. You have many choices when it comes to condoms. Some are lubricated with plain lube, flavored lube or spermicide, and they're also available without any lubricant. The options continue with a variety of specialty condoms: different shapes, colors, sizes and flavors. Just be sure the condom you choose says it prevents STIs and pregnancy. Condoms made of latex are the most effective at STI prevention and are the most widely available type. Polyurethane condoms are also available and do provide good STI and pregnancy protection. Some condoms are made of animal skin, often called lambskin condoms. These "natural condoms" are effective for pregnancy prevention only. They do not provide protection against STIs because the pores in the animal skin are large enough to allow some bacteria or viruses to pass through the condom. Please note that when we discuss condoms effectiveness for STI prevention below, we are referring to latex or polyurethane condoms only. How do condoms work to prevent STIs and pregnancy? Latex or polyurethane condoms help reduce the risk of STIs by preventing the exchange of fluids including semen, vaginal secretions, and blood during vaginal, anal or oral sex. They also provide some protection against STIs which are transmitted via skin to skin contact, as long as the affected area is covered by the condom. A condom helps prevent pregnancy by preventing semen from entering the vagina. How effective are condoms in preventing pregnancy and STIs? When condoms are used perfectly for vaginal intercourse--this means used correctly each and every time a couple has sex--the chance of becoming pregnant is less than 3%. But, not everyone who uses condoms uses them every time and not everyone uses them correctly, so the average risk of becoming pregnant is 12%. If you are concerned about the strength of your condom, a Consumer Reports study found that actual condom breakage is rare: 1 in 165 during vaginal sex and 1 in 105 during anal sex. When you take human error into account, failure rates would be higher. Using a condom correctly will decrease the chance of breakage. Condoms are currently the best method of STI protection. When used correctly and consistently, condoms will greatly reduce your exposure to STIs. How do I use a condom? Both you and your partner should know how to use a condom. If you have a penis, you can practice the steps to putting on a condom when you are alone. Masturbating while wearing a condom is a good way to get used to the feel and fit as well. If you don't have a penis, you can practice the steps below on a banana, zucchini or other similarly shaped object. This preparation will make the process smoother and easier when you use a condom with a partner. The first thing to know is that you put the condom on when the penis is erect, before there is any contact between the penis and another person's body. Fluid released from the penis during the early stages of an erection can transmit STIs and may contain sperm. Open carefully Check the expiration date. To ensure the package has not been punctured, pinch the package to feel for the air bubble. Do not open the condom wrapper with scissors or your teeth. If the condom is brittle or sticky, throw it out and get a new one. Apply lubricant Lubricant will reduce the risk of your condom breaking during use. You can apply a tiny amount of lube to the inside tip of the condom and to the outside of it once you roll it down. Be careful when applying lube to the inside of the condom. Too much lube could cause the condom to slip off. NEVER use oil-based lubricants like hand cream, Vaseline, massage oil, or butter. These weaken latex condoms quickly, making them much more likely to leak or break. ONLY use water-based or silicone lubricants like Astroglide, Pjur, Wet or Liquid Silk. Pinch, place, & roll down Pinch air from the tip of the condom with your thumb and forefinger. This will reduce the chance of the condom breaking by leaving space at the tip of the condom to hold the ejaculate and preventing an air bubble from being trapped at the tip. Place the rolled up condom against the end of the hard penis. Unroll the condom down to the base of your penis with your other hand. If the condom was placed on the penis, but couldn't roll down because it was inverted, make sure a new condom is used. If you flip the condom over, there is a chance that fluids from the tip of the penis are now on the outside of the condom. Withdraw Immediately after ejaculation and while the penis is still erect, hold the rim of the condom securely at the base of the penis and pull out. This will keep the condom from slipping off inside your partner and keep any semen from being spilled. Don't Flush Remove the condom from the penis, away from your partner's body. Wrap the condom in tissue and throw it away. Do not flush condoms down the toilet. They're not biodegradable and could block up your plumbing. A new condom should be used each and every time you have vaginal, oral or anal sex. Never reuse a condom. For increased protection against breakage and against transmission of infection, use a new condom or dental dam when you switch between types of sexual activity (for example, from anal sex to vaginal sex). What should I do if the condom breaks? If the condom breaks, tears or slips off during sex, there may be a chance that either partner has been exposed to an STI. You and your partner can make appointments to be tested at Health Services by calling 401.863-3953, or you can click here for more information on additional testing sites in Providence. If you are concerned about pregnancy, you may want to consider using Emergency Contraception (EC). EC is available without a prescription at Health Services and should be taken within 120 hours (5 days) after unprotected vaginal intercourse, the sooner the better. You can call Health Services at 401.863-1330 to talk to a nurse about whether to take EC. If you are concerned about exposure to HIV (particularly if you know your partner is HIV+ or if the condom broke during anal sex and your partner's HIV status is unknown), you may want to consider using Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP). PEP is available by prescription at Health Services. What if I have an allergy to latex condoms? People who have an allergy to latex can use a condom made of polyurethane plastic instead. A polyurethane condom has a looser fit, a longer shelf life and reportedly transmits more body heat through the condom. Internal condoms (also called Reality or female condoms) are another option for people with latex allergy because they too are made of polyurethane rather than latex. You can visit our page on internal condoms for more information. How much do condoms cost and where can I get them? We have condoms available for Brown students here in Health Services. Supplies are available in the 1st or 3rd floor bathrooms or in Health Promotion on the 3rd floor. The identity centers on campus, SHAG peer educators and RPLs in the residence halls also have safer sex supplies. All locations offer external condoms and dental dams. In Health Promotion we also offer internal condoms, non-latex condoms, XL size condoms, gloves, and lubricant. Brown students can also order safer sex supplies online for delivery to their campus mailbox through Ship n SHAG. All of our safer sex supplies are available without charge. We just ask that you take only what you need and that you not use the free supplies if you need large quantities. If you need larger amounts of condoms, you can purchase 50 condoms for $5 or 100 condoms for $10 from the Health Services Pharmacy. Related Links Durex This entertaining site has information available on the different styles of condoms available, quizzes on how to decide which condom is best for you, and the "Durex Clinic" where commonly asked condom questions are answered. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook