Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav BC Experience for High School Students Back Back Close Programs Overview Honors Program Non-Credit Program Business & Leadership Institute Writing for College Creative Writing Workshop Forensics, Profiling and Crime Scene Analysis Government, Globalism, Capitalism Fundamentals of Economics Introduction to Concepts in Psychology Psychology of the Arts Sports Management Institute Politics & Democracy Applied Neuropsychology Writing for the Visual Medium: Stage Writing for the Visual Medium: TV Writing for the Visual Medium: Screen Program Costs Apply Outside the Classroom Overview Residential Experience Commuter Students FAQs Participant Information Overview Arrival and Departure Information Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Boston College Experience Summer 2022 Explore your interests. Discover new ones. We are excited to announce this summer, Boston College Experience will be in-person and online for Summer 2022*! However, we must remain flexible in our response to changing developments due to COVID-19. The health and safety of our students, faculty, and staff is our first priority. If we are unable to conduct the program on campus as planned, we will shift to remote instruction. Any changes to program format will be communicated promptly if and when they are confirmed. The Boston College Experience provides motivated high school students the opportunity to live and learn as students at Boston College. Through adherence to our Jesuit mission, our programs focus on exposing students to a rich and rewarding college experience through coursework, extracurricular activities and reflection. Built into the programs are activities that help to prepare students for their college search and the transition into college life. Students will participate in service-learning activities, cultural and social outings all while enjoying the beautiful city of Boston over the summer. The program aims to give students the chance to experience life as a college student. As such, while the program is committed to providing students a variety of optional social and cultural activities in addition to robust academic programming, we do not schedule the students’ every moment. We expect that participants will be able to manage their own time effectively in the safe environment provided for them as part of the BC Experience. *Boston College requires all students (regardless of age or full-time/part-time status) to be fully vaccinated (with FDA-approved COVID vaccines with emergency use authorization or World Health Organization (WHO) emergency use listing-approved vaccines) against COVID-19 before participating in any on-campus activity related to the 2021-2022 academic year. Learn more >> 2022 Session Dates Two-Week, Non-Credit Course Session Dates Session 1: Tuesday, July 5 – Friday, July 15 (Please note: There will be no Monday class due to observance of the July 4th holiday) Session 2: Monday, July 18 – Friday, July 29 Session 3: Monday, August 1 – Friday, August 12 Honors Six-Week, For-Credit Courses Thursday, June 30 – Friday, August 12 Inquire Experience college life. Imagine your future. The Boston College Experience (BCE) provides high school students the opportunity to study with Boston College over the summer. Students participate in carefully curated academic, social and cultural content intended to expose them to a college-like experience and prepare them for life after high school. As part of BCE students interact with Boston College faculty, current students and alums as well as with peers from around the globe to develop personal and professional networks and develop friendships of a lifetime! “BCE has helped me discover what I want to pursue in my future studies, but at the same time I was able to make life-lasting friendships. It was an amazing experience.” BCE Participant “BCE not only strengthened my academic career, but it also gave me lifelong friends and experiences I will never forget.” Sara P. A pre-college experience for motivated high school students. A pre-college experience for motivated high school students. Back To Top Back To Top BC Experience for High School Students Boston College Summer Session - BCE 617-552-3800 bce@bc.edu Facebook 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College