Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research DEI Initiatives Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate PhD in Clinical Psychology About the Program Welcoming Diversity Clinical Faculty Child Clinical Clinical Health Psychology Psychotherapy Research Admission Clinical Student Handbook Clinical Program Announcements Clinical Alumni News PhD in Experimental Psychology About the ProgramExperimental FacultyCognitiveBehavioral NeuroscienceRequired CoursesAdmissionFinancial Support PhD in School Psychology About the ProgramsProgram OverviewSchool FacultyHistorical StatementFinancial SupportProgram Philosophy and Training ModelProgram CompetenciesSchool Psychology Doctoral HandbookSchool Psychology AssociationChild & Family Studies Research Group MA/Ed.S. in School Psychology About the ProgramsProgram OverviewSchool FacultyM.A./Ed.S. Program GoalsHistorical StatementFinancial SupportSchool Psychology MA/ED.S. HandbookSchool Psychology AssociationWhat is a School Psychologist?Child & Family Studies Research Group Masters in General Psychology About the ProgramProgram GoalsRequired CoursesAdmission Apply to Psychology Graduate Programs Instructions for ApplyingApply Now Graduate Student Coordinating Committee About GSCCGSCC Concerns/ComplaintsGSCC Travel Funding Graduate Program Forms and Resources Clinical Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data School Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data Take Action Psychology Advanced Degrees Academic Advising & Resource Center (AARC) The Psychological Services Center Teaching Take-Out Facebook Home Department of Psychology Graduate Clinical Health Psychology Clinical Psychology Program - Clinical Health Concentration Leslie A. Robinson Director Phone: (901) 678-1667 Office: 334 This specialty area is housed within the Clinical Psychology Program. Health Psychology is broadly concerned with studying the intersection of psychology and health. This includes using psychological theories and intervention approaches to understand, prevent, and treat medical conditions and health-compromising behaviors. The Clinical Health Psychology faculty at the University of Memphis is primarily interested in studying risky health-related behaviors, with a special emphasis on addictive behaviors. Faculty interests range from laboratory studies that examine the basic decision making processes related to health risk and addictive behaviors (using cognitive, social learning, and behavioral economic models), to large scale epidemiology and prevention studies, to clinical trials evaluating treatments for a range of health-risk and addictive behaviors (e.g., alcohol, gambling, illicit drugs, obesity/sedentary behavior, tobacco). Promotion of healthful behaviors and evaluation of the psychosocial consequences of disease also receive serious attention. Please see the affiliated faculty web pages for more detailed information. Clinical Psychology students who specialize in Clinical Health Psychology complete all of the general Clinical Psychology coursework and training experiences. In addition to this strong generalist training, they receive supplemental specialized training in the research and practice of Clinical Health Psychology. This includes coursework related to the practice of psychology in medical settings, the effects of medical illness on cognitive and emotional functioning, theories and models of health behavior change, and empirically supported intervention approaches. Clinical Health Psychology students also complete clinical training in a variety of settings, including Veterans Affairs Medical Centers, University Health Care Centers, and Pediatric and Adult Cancer Hospitals/Clinics. In the same way, Clinical Health Psychology students have access to unique research experiences within the broader biomedical community in Memphis, which includes a medical school, several nursing schools, schools for other health care providers, and hospitals for both adults and children, including the internationally known St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. Within our own university, our students have the opportunity to access specialized training in our new School of Public Health, as well as in allied areas, such as health-care economics, health communication, and sport sciences. This specialty has a strong research emphasis and is well-suited to students who aspire to academic and/or medical setting positions as career goals. Funding is excellent for researchers trained in this area, and the job market for Clinical Health Psychologists is quite strong. Faculty Primary Affiliates Frank Andrasik, Ph.D. Andrew W. Meyers, Ph.D. (Emeritus) James G. Murphy, Ph.D. Leslie Robinson, Ph.D. James Whelan, Ph.D. Secondary Affiliates Kristoffer S. Berlin Ph.D. Meghan E. McDevitt-Murphy, Ph.D. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.