Home About Programs Research Clinical Care Education travel FAQ Donate Contact Us Close Botswana-UPenn Partnership Home About Programs Overview Research Clinical Care Education travel FAQ Donate Contact Us The Botswana-UPenn Partnership is helping to write new clinical guidelines for patient care in Botswana. Photo by Ryan Littman-Quinn Healthcare workers attending a telemedicine training session. Cell phones are used to help make clinical diagnosis and obtain health information. Photo by Ryan Littman-Quinn A group of health providers review how to spot TB in a chest x-ray. Photo by Ryan Littman-Quinn Home Sharing the expertise of a world-class university with our partners in Botswana to build capacity and excellence in clinical care, education, and research. The University of Pennsylvania has worked in Botswana since 2001 and currently employs approximately 120 full-time staff in country working under the name the Botswana-UPenn Partnership. The Botswana-UPenn Partnership works with the Government of Botswana Ministry of Health and the University of Botswana to build healthcare and research capacity in Botswana. Penn is taking a broad interdisciplinary approach to train health-care personnel throughout Botswana in the treatment of HIV/AIDS and its complications, to help develop post-graduate training programs at the University of Botswana with an emphasis on Internal Medicine and its subspecialties, to offer experience in global health to Penn trainees, and to develop joint research programs that address issues relevant to the health and welfare of the citizens of Botswana.Please see the Botswana-UPenn Partnership website for more information. SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENTS 20 YEARS | BOTSWANA-UPENN PARTNERSHIP Join us for a virtual 2-day symposium as we celebrate the 20th anniversary of The Botswana-UPenn Partnership. We will examine the success of the last 20 years and that of transformational partnerships. As well as how to build upon that success as we look to the future. Learn more... New BUP director of Pediatrics and research announced BUP is pleased to announce that Dr. Merrian Brooks will be serving as the new BUP Director of Pediatrics and Research. Learn more... COVID-19 Guidance for Penn Travellers in Botswana BUP and the Center for Global Health has been monitoring COVID-19 closely in coordination with Penn's global support offices. Currently, all University-related travel is prohibited. Learn more... Interested in working in Botswana? We've gathered current potential funding opportunities for grants/ projects in Botswana. Learn more... Penn and chop faculty and staff: are you planning a trip to Botswana? If you are Penn or CHOP faculty or staff and are planning a trip to Botswana to conduct research, perform a scoping visit, facilitate a training, or do clinical work, please complete this NEW quick and easy questionnaire to access BUP services. News RT @UPennCGH: CGH Scholar Yehoda Martei @ymartei leads a global oncology study revealing COVID silver linings for cancer care inn… https://t.co/YJTIItxO8n @TheBUP 1 year, 2 months ago Call for the AAS Affiliates 2020: The AAS Affiliates Programme seeks early and mid-career scientists who demonstrat… https://t.co/3Nwqvzqvje @TheBUP 1 year, 11 months ago Adopting locally the lessons learned globally: a call to action for academic medical centres in the USA. Co-authore… https://t.co/ROBcNlh8LV @TheBUP 2 years, 1 month ago View more Contact Us Make a Gift Become a CGH Scholar Join the CGH List View Our Sitemap © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team.