Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Transportation Office Site Navigation Home Applications & Forms Biking Brown University Shuttle Carpooling Contact Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Parking RIPTA UPass Transportation Management Plan Zipcar B.U.S. Tracker Real-Time Locations Print this Page Share this Page Transportation Office Brown University Box 1865 69 Brown Street Page Robinson Hall, Suite 511 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3157 Fax 401-863-1233 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Transportation Office Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Electric Vehicle Charging Station Program Brown is implementing an expanded electric vehicle (EV) charging station program, along with a new fee structure for charging vehicles, as part of the University’s commitment to sustainability. In 2019 Brown set an aggressive goal to cut its campus greenhouse gas emissions by 75% by 2025 and to achieve net-zero no later than 2040. While the scope of emissions related to these goals include Scopes 1 and 2, on-site combustion and electricity respectively, the daily commuting habits of the Brown community have a significant impact on the University’s Scope 3 emissions, and beyond. Scope 1, 2, and 3 are how greenhouse gas emissions are characterized. Scope 1 refers to direct emissions that are under an organization’s control such as on-site combustion of fossil fuels in boilers and fleet vehicles. Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions from the purchase of energy such as electricity. Scope 3 emissions are the indirect emissions that occur from the activities of the organization from sources it does not control or own, which includes emissions associated with commuting and travel, among other activities. To work toward addressing this transportation aspect of Scope 3 emissions, and replace gasoline miles with electric miles, the University formed a working group to develop the expanded EV charging station program. The committee is pleased to announce the expanded charging program with seven new dual-port charging stations across campus. With the inclusion of Brown’s two existing charging stations (Lot 44 and Richmond Garage) in the program, there will now be nine charging stations on campus with 18 ports. All the charging stations will now have a new fee structure. Demand for our original two charging stations has increased exponentially since they were installed almost seven years ago. In order to accommodate this demand, encourage people to charge only when needed, and move their vehicles promptly, we are implementing a new fee structure to make sure demand does not overwhelm availability. You may recall the announcement in News from Brown that in 2019 the University entered into two power purchase agreements (PPA), one wind and one solar. These PPAs are contractual agreements between Brown and developers to develop a Rhode Island-based solar project and a Texas-based wind energy project that will bring more renewable energy to the grid. When operational by the end of 2021, these wind and solar operations will offset 100 percent of the University’s electric consumption, including that of the EV charging stations. The office of Transportation & Brown Card Services will administer the program. If you have questions please contact [email protected]. Rate Structure and Parking Requirements Vehicles parked in EV spaces must be plugged in and charging. Vehicles parked in EV spaces must have a current displayed Brown parking permit or have paid for entry into the garage. First hour is free. After the first hour, the fee is $.05 per minute. Electric Vehicle Charging Station Locations Lot 90 (Facilities Management) – Two units with four ports. Lot 90 Lot 44 (Minden Hall) – One unit with two ports Lot 44 Lot 68 (Power Street Garage – Upper Level) – Three units with six ports Lot 68 Lot 200 (200 Dyer Street – Behind the Building) – Two units with four ports. Lot 200 Lot 222 (Richmond Street Garage – 1st Floor) – One unit with 2 ports Lot 222 The ChargePoint Application ChargePoint Application Also in Transportation Office Site Navigation Home Applications & Forms Biking Brown University Shuttle Carpooling Contact Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Parking RIPTA UPass Transportation Management Plan Zipcar B.U.S. Tracker Real-Time Locations Print this Page Share this Page Transportation Office Brown University Box 1865 69 Brown Street Page Robinson Hall, Suite 511 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3157 Fax 401-863-1233 [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Quick Links Brown University Shuttle Tracker [email protected] RIDOT Traffic Updates Zipcar Brown Card Services Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity