Skip to main content Restrict my search to The Honors College Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search The Office of Undergraduate Research and Major Awards About Staff News & Events Publications with Undergraduate Co-Authors Contact Us OURMA Programs Action Research in Communities Program Houston Early Research Experience (HERE) Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship Provost's Undergraduate Research Scholarship Mellon Research Scholars Program Houston Scholars Research for Aspiring Coogs in the Humanities Undergraduate Research Day Honors Thesis Fellowships Calendar of Deadlines Featured Scholarships Scholarship Search Scholar Profiles Research Resources Getting Started in Research Research Positions at UH Featured Research Opportunities Undergraduate Research Travel Fellowship Get Involved with Research COVID-19 Guidance for Undergraduate Researchers Faculty Resources Undergraduate Research Mentor Awards List Your Research Opportunity Poster and Easel Reservation UH Home The Honors College The Office of Undergraduate Research and Major Awards OURMA Programs Houston Early Research Experience 2017 HERE Program 2017_HERE_program OURMA Programs Houston Early Research Experience Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship Provost's Undergraduate Research Scholarship Mellon Research Scholars Program Action Research in Communities Program Research for Aspiring Coogs in the Humanities Program ﻿ Houston Early Research Experience (HERE) Houston Early Research Experience (HERE) May 2017 Research Seminar: "Let's Talk Houston" The Houston Early Research Experience (HERE) is a two-week workshop in May intended to orient rising sophomore and junior undergraduates to the fundamentals of conducting research. UH faculty members will lead the seminars. HERE will uncover the complexity of understanding and grappling with big picture problems. Students will discuss academic topics, broaden their professional network, and learn how to ask the right research questions when approaching their work. Students from all majors are encouraged to apply. HERE students receive a $1K fall scholarship for their involvement, and an invitation to join the Houston Scholars program in the fall semester. A selected group of HERE students will also present at a Grand Challenges Forum lecture to over 150 students, faculty and staff throughout the campus community. Eligibility for Candidates Have at least four semesters remaining at UH after summer 2017 (This means you should not graduate before Spring 2019) Have at least a 3.5 cumulative GPA All majors are eligible Note: Current members of the Houston Scholars program are not eligible to participate HERE Seminar Activities Faculty and community leader lectures and discussions Read and discuss academic articles with seminar leaders Conduct faculty-guided research Go on field trips throughout Houston Deliver a research presentation HERE Deadline: The deadline for the HERE 2017 program has passed. Students will be notified of their status in the 2017 HERE program before Friday, April 21, 2017. For More Information Dr. Karen Weber, kweber@uh.edu Dr. Jennifer Asmussen, jkgajan@Central.UH.EDU Summary of the 2017 HERE Program The 2017 seminar focused on the City of Houston—the history, future trends, environment, pollution, politics, and more. Schedule for Program May 15 - May 26, 2017 9a.m.-2p.m. Daily Agenda for Program 9-10a.m. Small Group Seminars  10-11a.m. Guest Speaker  11-11:30a.m. Lunch Break  11:30-1p.m. Small Group Seminars  1-2p.m. Research for Final Projects M.D. Anderson Library 4333 University Drive, Rm 212 Houston, TX 77204-2001 713.743.9010 voice 713.743.9015 fax 1.888.827.0366 (toll-free) honors@uh.edu Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Bookstore Libraries Parking Human Resources Jobs at UH A-Z Offices Directories Emergency Libraries President Social Media Policies Fraud Reporting Title IX - Sexual Conduct Homeland Security TRAIL State of Texas ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies