University of Arizona Admissions BECOME A WILDCAT Apply to ArizonaClick or Scroll To Explore It All Starts Here Become a student at the University of Arizona and discover your full potential. From undergraduate degrees to PhDs, the University of Arizona has helped students achieve all their academic goals – while embracing the Bear Down spirit – since 1885. Explore All the Ways You Can Be a Wildcat Select from the options below, and learn more about the application process, tuition and financial aid, and more. First-Year I’m a first-time college student. Transfer I’m applying from another college or university. Online I want to attend Arizona from anywhere. International I’m not a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. Graduate I’m pursuing an advanced degree in a specific field. Returning I took a break from studying at Arizona. Non-Degree Seeking I’d like to take classes separate from a major. Counselors My students want to be Wildcats. Certification Programs I’m looking to advance my career. Explore Information About Tuition & Aid Applying & Requirements Deadlines Contact Admissions Office Find Your Recruiter Additional Resources Ways to Attend the University of Arizona World-renowned academics – wherever you are. Pursue an education with international recognition, incredible research opportunities, and benefits that continue long after you graduate. Main CampusHundreds of degree choices at our Tucson hub. OnlineYour education on your schedule. Near You NetworkA University of Arizona degree, across the state. GlobalWorldwide microcampus network and 200+ study abroad programs. TOP 20 U.S. Public Research Institution —Times Higher Education (2020) BEST VALUE SCHOOL For Academics, Facilities, Financial Aid, and More —Princeton Review (2020) TOP 50 Public University —U.S. News & World Report (2021) Visit the University of Arizona Modern architecture, classic red brick buildings on the National Register of Historic Places, a central mall with bright green grass and excellent people-watching. Wander from a distance, follow a Wildcat-led in-person tour, or explore on a self-guided tour, and discover how the University of Arizona is an inspiring oasis in the heart of Tucson. Explore The University Request Information & Contact Frequently Asked QuestionsFind Your Recruiter Request InformationContact Admissions Office