Welcome Home! - Student Housing and Residential Life - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Housing - SHRL Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Student Housing and Residential Life Home About Meet Our Staff Housing COVID-19 Updates Frequently Asked Questions Assessment & Strategic Planning SHRL Employment Student Employment Staff Employment Recognition SHRLies The SHRL Leadership Recognition Wall Marketing Faculty In Residence Dr. Jerrod Henderson Dr. Kavita Singh Dr. Lyle McKinney Dr. Todd Romero Dr. Melody Li Dr. Scott Gilbertson Housing Alumni and Friends SHRL Alumni and Friends Newsletter Quad Alumni Reunion and Tailgate Current and Returning Residents Cougar Move In Get Involved Residence Halls Association (RHA) The National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH) Greek Life Housing Resource Guide Communications Living Learning Communities Living Learning Communities (LLCs) Theme Communities Maintenance Request and FIXIT Future Residents Residential Community Qualifications Apply for Housing Housing Rate Sheet Get Involved Residence Halls Association (RHA) The National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH) Greek Life Living Learning Communities Living Learning Communities (LLCs) Theme Communities Calendar Conference Housing Services and Amenities Camp Programs for Minors Contact Us Price Guide Directions to Campus Give to SHRL UH Home Housing - SHRL Welcome Home Your Campus Experience begins HERE! Housing Options See all the housing options we have to offer, including floor plans and residential qualifications. Living Learning and Theme Communities Living Learning Communities are a residential experience that offers students interested in a shared topic the opportunity to live together in a dedicated residential area. Maintenance Request and FIXIT Residents can submit online requests 24/7 to get assistance with information technology (computer, wireless, software, email, Philo), residential facility or room support, and laundry room issues. Apply for Housing Your new home is a few clicks away. Apply for housing today! Quad Multipurpose Room Rent The Quad Multipurpose Room for your classroom needs. Weather Alert Stay up to date with the latest weather and campus information. Learn more about the Residential Engagement Model, a plan created to assist residents as they Learn, Discover and Empower themselves. For more information about how Student Housing and Residential Life plan to work with residents click here.Learn More Calendar COVID-19 Updates #uhliving Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Flickr Snapchat Powered by EmbedSocial→ Contact Us On-Campus Housing Office Hours Monday – Friday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. University of Houston Student Housing and Residential Life 4377 Cougar Village Drive, Room S121 Houston, TX 77204-3018 713-743-6000 housing@uh.edu University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies