Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Canvas Menu Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login Baylor Canvas Online Learning Management System Canvas Login Non-BU Canvas Login 844.334.0228 Live Chat Email Support Techology Techology is a series of workshops/webinars offered by the LATS Learning Design team that explores the relationships between technology and pedagogy. Techology in the simplest terms is the practice of matching technologies to pedagogy. Join us and become a master "Techologist" through deep discussions explaining the 'how' and exploring the 'why' to technology integration. Learn More Student Health and Wellness Student Health & Wellness pulls together various units that provide programs and services designed to encourage and support healthy lifestyles for students. Learn More Dr Pepper Hour Since 1953, Dr Pepper Hour has been a long-standing tradition of the Student Union. Each week students, faculty and staff to come together and socialize while enjoying a refreshing Dr Pepper float. Dr Pepper Hour is held every Tuesday during the academic year between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. in the Barfield Drawing Room of the BDSC. Learn More Something Not Working? Check System Status! Visit systemstatus.baylor.edu for 24/7 real-time updates on the status of technology systems at Baylor. Learn More Go Gold Discounts! Baylor has called Waco home for over 100 years. We love it here, and we hope by exploring the best our city has to offer, you will too! Shop, dine and explore Waco through our 60+ Go Gold partners, spanning the community from downtown and beyond. Learn More Report It! The Baylor University "Report It" website directs faculty, staff, students, alumni, parents and the public to a range of reporting tools and instructions. Learn More Neighbor Nights Every other Tuesday during the school year, join us at our Neighbor Nights, a dinner, often hosted by a multicultural student organizations, open to all Baylor students, staff, and faculty! Spirituality & Public Life student leaders and the leaders of the host organization do all the cooking and normally feed anywhere from 100-200 students. Neighbor Nights feature different cultures and stories from students while sharing a meal of different cultural cuisines around a table with our neighbors. Get to know your neighbor...one dinner at a time! Learn More Handshake Handshake is the ultimate career network and recruiting platform for Baylor students! Log-in with your BU email and ID#, you already have an account. Complete your profile, utilize resources, make appointments with career specialist, and be on your way to your dream job! Learn More Other Support Services Help & Support Search Canvas guides, connect with the community, or report a problem. Learning Together Review strategies and tools for enhancing the online or hybrid teaching experience. Training View available workshops and training for Canvas and other academic technology. System Status View current system status for most academic technology systems. Other Support Services Help & Support Learning Together Training System Status News More Canvas News Apr. 26, 2022 ProQuest-Canvas Integration Now Available Instructors are now able to search for ProQuest documents from within Canvas, select them, and embed them directly for viewing within Canvas courses and assignments. Read More Apr. 10, 2022 Canvas Features and Updates in April Instructure is making changes to Canvas on April 16, 2022. Although minor, there are a few important updates to note for teachers and students. Read More Apr. 6, 2022 Avatars in Zoom Avatars enable you to replace your appearance with a 3D virtual avatar that mirrors your head movements and facial expressions. Read More Mar. 31, 2022 Webex and BigBlueButton Access Ending Soon Access to Webex and BigBlueButton within Canvas will end at the end of the spring term. Microsoft Teams and Zoom will serve as Baylor's videoconferencing solutions moving forward. Read More Events All Events May 16 2022 Minimester session (ends 06/02/2022) Jun 1 2022 Apply for alternative loans by this date for upcoming fall/spring semesters. Most alternative loans require 4-6 weeks of processing time. You should determine your eligibility and apply prior to bills being sent to allow adequate processing time. Jun 2 2022 Summer 2022 Minimester term ends/exams Jun 4 2022 All That Jazz Academy of Dance Recital 2022 Jun 7 2022 Last day to register or add classes for Summer 2022 Session 1 Jun 8 2022 Last day to drop a Summer 2022 Session 1 class without a "W" Jun 10 2022 Last day to register or add classes for Summer 2022 Full Session Jun 14 2022 Last day to drop a Summer 2022 Full Session class without a "W" Events All Events May 16 2022 Minimester session (ends 06/02/2022) Jun 1 2022 Apply for alternative loans by this date for upcoming fall/spring semesters. Most alternative loans require 4-6 weeks of processing time. You should determine your eligibility and apply prior to bills being sent to allow adequate processing time. Jun 2 2022 Summer 2022 Minimester term ends/exams Jun 4 2022 All That Jazz Academy of Dance Recital 2022 Upcoming Training All Training Training All Training General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login