Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Student Spotlight » 2020–21 Award Winners Set Navigation title in component 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners Barry Goldwater Scholarship Sanjeeth Rajaram Sanjeeth Rajaram is a third-year student in the College of Medicine, pursuing a BS in Medical Sciences with a minor in Public Health and certificate in Bioethics. He was recently named a 2021 Barry Goldwater Scholar. Profile Boren Awards Caleb Akers Caleb Akers is a fourth-year student at UC from Columbus, Ohio double majoring in International Affairs and Political Science. He is a recipient of the Boren Scholarship and will study Bahasa in Indonesia. Profile Adam Elzarka Adam Elzarka is a second-year student double majoring in Medical Sciences and Liberal Arts with concentrations in Arabic, Philosophy, and Psychology. He is a recipient of the Boren Scholarship and will study Arabic in Jordan. Profile Nicholas Marx Nicholas Marx is a second year student at UC double majoring in French and Mathematics with a certificate in Spanish. He is a recipient of the Boren Scholarship and will study French in Senegal. Profile Austin Snider Austin Snider is a senior pursuing a BS degree in Cybersecurity. As a recipient of the Boren Scholarship, Austin will study Korean for a full year at the Korean Language Education Center at Sogang University. Profile Critical Language Scholarship Nicholas Marx Nicholas Marx is a second year student at UC double majoring in French and Mathematics with a certificate in Spanish. He is a recipient of the Critical Language Scholarship. Profile Foreign Affairs Information Technology Fellowship Mahesh Gowda Mahesh Gowda is pursuing a double degree program at the University of Cincinnati earning a bachelor's in information technology and an MBA while minoring in Asian Studies. He is a recipient of the Foreign Affairs Information Technology Fellowship. Profile Fulbright U.S. Student Program Haley Bertram Haley Bertram is a Ph.D. candidate in Classical Archaeology in the UC Department of Classics. She is a recipient of the Fulbright Study/Research Grant in France. Profile Annie McAllister Annie Barr McAllister, is a Doctorate of Musical Arts candidate in Voice at CCM intending to graduate this summer, 2021. She is a recipient of the Fulbright Study/Research Grant in Ireland. Profile Matthew Raj Matthew Raj is a recent graduate of the University of Cincinnati, earning dual degrees in Medical Sciences and Spanish with a minor in Latin American, Caribbean, and Latino Studies. He is a recipient of the Fulbright ETA in Mexico. Profile 2020–21 Award Finalists Chinmay Bakshi Chinmay Bakshi is a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences majoring in Neurobiology and Liberal Arts with an emphasis in public health and a finalist for the Rhodes Scholarship. Profile Matthew Clayton Matthew Clayton is a recent graduate of the University of Cincinnati, earning degrees in Computer Engineering and Political Science with a minor in Computer Science. He was named an alternate for the Fulbright Study/Research Grant in Estonia. Profile Marcus McDowell Marcus McDowell, a finalist for the Schwarzman Scholarship, graduated in the summer of 2019 with a degree in Interdisciplinary studies merging design, marketing, and global entrepreneurship. Profile Camryn Morrow Camryn Morrow, a finalist for the Truman Scholarship, is dedicated to empowering the next generation of leaders through arts education and access. Profile Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top