Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Office of Education Educational Programs Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. About Teaching Assistants FAQ Contact Us About Teaching Assistants FAQ Contact Us Office of Educational Programs The Office of Educational Programs is here to provide logistical support as you navigate your academics at Mailman. For all students, OEP is a point of contact for the MPH shared curriculum and Certificate programming as well as other degree programs. OEP serves as the central hub for new school-wide academic initiatives. Additionally, OEP establishes and manages policies that support academic programs. OEP also distributes vouchers to qualified students for the Certified Public Health exam offered through the National Board of Public Health Examiners. Do you have a question about your Core schedule? Are you interested in being a Core, ISP, or Leadership Teaching Assistant? Do you want to talk to someone about changing your certificate? Do you have a question about your degree requirements? Are you interested in taking the CPH exam? We are here to answer your questions. Staff List: Core Curriculum Logistics and Support Lauren Westley Core Curriculum and Departmental Course Support Paul McCullough Certificate Programming and Degree Catalogue Management Troy Hoffman For questions about Curricular Support or TA Onboarding, email MSPH-OEP@cumc.columbia.edu contact us: Feel free to email one of us directly or reach out to our office by emailing msph-oep@columbia.edu. The Office of Educational Programs is located at 600 West 168th St. on the 4th Floor in Suite 405. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Memorial Event Celebrates the Life of Zena SteinApr 27 2022 Bronx Gets Another Boost Toward a Clean Air FutureApr 25 2022 Study Examines Resilience of Immigrant Youth in Various Living ArrangementsApr 22 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers