Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Electrical and Computer Engineering Welcome Future Students Current Students Research People Contact Us Accreditation Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Degrees in EECE Faculty Resources Herff College of Engineering Contact Us Follow EECE Online Linkedn Home EECE EECE Chair's Welcome EECE Chair's Welcome Welcome to our website! Here, at the Herff College of Engineering, we hope to impart the knowledge to prepare you to become the next generation of electrical and computer engineers. As you already know, electrical and computer engineers work at the forefront of science to create the technology that defines the way we live. Communication systems, such as smart phones and satellites, and medical diagnosis systems, such as CT scanners, are important devices that greatly impact our lives. Along with developing your skills that will allow you to create new technologies, we want to encourage you to express your creativity through work that inspires and excites you. I encourage you to investigate our programs. We have programs at all levels, undergraduate, Masters, and Doctoral, in Electrical and Computer Engineering. For undergraduates, our program provides a solid foundation, as well as the opportunity to innovate and explore. The Honors program allows outstanding undergraduates to have a more individual experience. Opportunities for undergraduates to do research with faculty are abundant. The graduate programs for Masters and Doctoral degrees give students more in-depth knowledge to prepare them for academia, research, or advanced industry positions. In the Electrical and Computer Engineering department, we have talented faculty who are dedicated to your success. The faculty are engaged in cutting-edge research areas ranging from development of printable wearable devices, computational imaging systems, and power systems, to intelligent systems, machine learning and assistive technology, to name a few. Their job is to impart their experience and expertise to you in the classroom and engage you in their research. They are accomplished researchers and teachers, who have received research awards from many funding agencies and companies, including the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Defense, and National Institute of Standards and Technology. In addition, many of them have experience as practicing engineers. We will do our best to help you learn the knowledge and skills that will allow you to have a long and successful career as a maker of innovative technology. We are excited that you are interested in our programs and I encourage you to contact me directly if you have any questions. Sincerely, Chrysanthe Preza, D.Sc. Kanuri Professor and Chair cpreza@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/11/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.