Skip to main content Skip to main navigation University Libraries Menu University Libraries About Contact Us Employment, Fellowships, and Internships Affordable Course Materials Summer Fellows Active Learning Lab Fellowship Baylor Libraries Summer Internship Programs Fundamentals of Data Research Fellowships Learning Design Fellowship Special Collections Teaching Fellowships Library Publications and Media Basic Information Inspiring Insight Baylor ITS and Libraries Magazine Our Libraries, Institutes, and Centers Media Inquiries Marketing & Communications Meet the Dean Mission & Vision Moody Starbucks People Find Your Librarian Organizational Charts Policies Publication & Digital Reproduction Policy & Procedures Spaces Study Zones in Moody-Jones Moody Pods Specialists Directory Archivists Arts and Special Collections Research Center Course Reserves Classroom Technology Data and Digital Scholarship Digital Humanities Digitization Exhibits Fundraising and Development Grants and Grantwriting HelpDesk+ (Technology Support) Information (Library Public Services) Library Instruction Instructional Design Makerspace Marketing and Communications Media Lab Metaliteracies OsoFast Campus Delivery OsoFast Interlibrary Loan Research Librarians Special Collections Visitor Information Map & Parking Research A-Z Databases Baylor Archival Repositories Database BEARdocs Borrow, Request, Renew Copyright Guidance Data & Digital Scholarship About Data & Digital Scholarship Data Research Fellows Data Scholar Workshops Data Visualization of the Week Projects and Tools Digital Collections High Performance and Research Computing Services HPRCS Services HPRCS Systems HPRCS Support HPRCS Staff Interlibrary Loan/OsoFast Distance Education & Faculty Abroad Library Services OsoFast Delivery Library Guides Managing Citations Off-campus Access OneSearch Research Support Data and Digital Scholarship Government Documents Library Literacies Liaison Program Public Services Discover Black Gospel Archive Black Gospel Music Preservation Project Black Gospel Music Royce-Darden Digital Collection Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center Black Gospel Preachers Project Distinctive Collections Baylor Athletics Archive Book Arts Collection The Browning Letters Texas Maps Collection Women's Collections Graduate Research Center GRC Map Makerspace Media Lab Moody and Jones Libraries New Student Resources Moody & Jones Virtual Tour 2022 Research Libraries, Institutes, and Centers Armstrong Browning Library and Museum Arts and Special Collections Research Center Institute for Oral History Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society W. R. Poage Legislative Library The Texas Collection and University Archives University Writing Center Learn Course Reserves Course Reading List Reserve Requests Form Events Voices & Vinyl 7 Past Events Exhibits Art in the Carrels: BU Student Artists A Stitched-Up Life: Presenting the Work of Dr. Mary Ruth Smith Creations 2022 Crosshatch Galleries National Pan-Hellenic 10th Anniversary Exhibit W. R. Poage Legislative Library Permanent Exhibit Past Exhibits History Fair Learning Together Library Literacies Workshops, Learning Opportunities & Training Visit Armstrong Browning Library and Museum About Collections Give to ABL Research & Instruction Visit Arts & Special Collections Research Center About Explore Special Collections Visit The Baylor Legal Research and Technology Center The Institute for Oral History About Give to the IOH Grants Research Resources Search Our Collection Social Media Student Resources Workshops The Keston Center for Religion, Politics & Society About Keston Collection Exhibits Give to the Keston Center Lectures and Symposia Research Visit Library and Academic Technology Services Experiential Learning Commons Learning Design Learning Spaces Learning Systems Contact LATS Moody and Jones Libraries Arts & Special Collections Research Center Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center HelpDesk+ and Experiential Learning Commons Hours Map and Location Guide Spaces University Writing Center The School of Education Learning Resource Center The Louise Herrington School of Nursing Learning Resource Center The Texas Collection and University Archives About The Texas Collection Collection Highlights Connect With Us On Social Media Research At The Texas Collection Texas Collection Visitor Information W. R. Poage Legislative Library About Collections Connect Give to the Poage Library Research Give Dean of Libraries Priorities Baylor Book Society & Library Endowed Book Fund Books for Bears and Bear Cubs Lanella Spinks Gray Baylor at Independence Fund Sue Margaret Hughes Library Internship Fund Graduate Research Center 2.0 Distinctive Collections Innovative Programming and Spaces Makerspace Upgrades Funding Opportunity Philanthropy's Impact on the Libraries Research Libraries, Institutes and Centers 2021 Development Highlights OsoFast Hours Baylor>University Libraries>Learn>Events>Past Events Past Events She hath a Spell Beyond Her Name: Byron's Poetic Reflections on Venice, Subjectivity, and Temporality The Armstrong Browning Library & Museum in conjunction with the 19CRS present Dr. Mark Sandy, Professor of English, Durham University (UK) and ABL Three-Month Visiting Scholar. Sandy will explore Lord Byron's poetic reflections on the city of Venice, Italy. 2022 United By Faith: Waco Community Open House Join the University Libraries for an evening tour of the Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center, along with demonstrations of research materials and resources ideal for supporting preaching, worship, and spirituality. 2022 Stalingrad on Screen: From Stalinist Propaganda to Putin-era Blockbuster Dr. Stephen Norris from the University of Miami (Ohio) will explore four films from different eras that feature the Battle of Stalingrad and examine the cultural and historical implications. A reception and film screening will follow Dr. Norris' presentation. 2021 Why Gospel Music Matters featuring Robert Darden and Robert Marovich Join Black gospel music scholars Robert Darden and Robert Marovich as they explore the importance and impact of America's Black sacred music. 2021 Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center Grand Opening and Dedication Join the University Libraries as we open the brand new state-of-the-art home of our Black Gospel Music Restoration Project! 2021 Totalitarianism, Faith, and Dissent: Czech Catholic Vaclav Benda and Beyond The Keston Center and Czech Heritage Museum present a lecture by Dr. Flagg Taylor of Skidmore College followed by a thoughtful panel discussion and audience Q&A. 2021 Paulo Freire Centennial: Celebrating the Founder of Critical Pedagogy Paulo Freire (1921-1997) was a Brazilian educator and philosopher known the world over as founder and advocate of the school of thought known as critical pedagogy. This fall marks 100 years since Freire’s birth, and Baylor will be recognizing this centennial with a series of events across campus. 2021 Texas Collection Fall Lecture: This Land Is Your Land, This Land Is My Land Featuring a presentation by Dr. Clark Wernecke as part of the Native American Heritage speaker series, hosted by the Mayborn Museum. 2021 Redrawing Texas: Who Chooses Whom? As a result of the 2020 census, the State of Texas received two additional seats in the House of Representatives. Since the census results were officially released, Texas has been in a battle over how to "redraw" Texas. This virtual panel conversation featuring experts on redistricting will discuss the process in general and the current events unfolding in the Texas Legislature and the Courts. 2021 Fiona Sampson: Virtual Poetry Reading and Lecture The Armstrong Browning Library in conjunction with the Beall Poetry Festival welcomes Fiona Sampson, author of 28 books of poetry and nonfiction, including the critically acclaimed In Search of Mary Shelley and 2021's Two-Way Mirror: The Life of Elizabeth Barrett Browning. 2021 Facing Forward: Afghanistan After America The Baylor Institute for the Study of Religion and the Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society present "Facing Forward: Afghanistan after America," a panel presentation and conversation hosted on Zoom. 2021 Browning Day The Armstrong Browning Library and Museum presents the virtual 2021 Browning Day Lecture, "Lords of the Earth? Elizabeth Barrett Browning on Christ's Body in the Age of Human Domination" on Friday, April 16, at 3:30 p.m. CDT on Zoom. This year's lecture is presented by Dr. Joshua King, Associate Professor of English and Margarett Root Brown Chair in Robert Browning and Victorian Studies. 2021 Spring Keston Panel: Where in the World? The Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society presents “Where in World?” in two sessions to accommodate time differences. During the Zoom-hosted event, Keston researchers will briefly report from across the globe on the current state of religion, politics, and society. The panels will conclude with live Q&A. 2021 Pruit Symposium Since 2013, this annual symposium has focused on the tradition of American black sacred music in conjunction with the Black Gospel Music Restoration project of the Baylor Libraries. 2019 Teaching Fellows Presentations The 2019 Libraries Teaching Fellows will present the results of their research at this Seminar for Excellence in Teaching, sponsored by the Academy for Teaching and Learning. 19: 100 Years of Preserving Voters' Rights This virtual panel conversation marks the centennial of the passage of the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which secured voting rights for all citizens without discrimination on the basis of sex. Investigating Impeachment: Context, Congress, and the Constitution This panel conversation was held in February 2020, the day after the conclusion of the impeachment proceedings against Donald J. Trump. The panel, comprised of two former U.S. Senators, a U.S. Historian, and a constitutional law scholar explored the concept of impeachment as established in U.S. law along with several historic impeachment proceedings. Pictures, Portraits & Snapshots: Glimpses into Baylor's Special Libraries A special "speed panel" presentation featuring scholars from around the world sharing their positive experiences with items held by Baylor's special collections libraries. Texas Map Society Spring 2021 Meeting The Texas Collection will host the annual spring meeting of the Texas Map Society virtually on Zoom. Voices & Vinyl: A Virtual Concert The fifth annual concert featuring Heavenly Voices gospel choir with their modern interpretations of classic gospel songs 2022 The Ward: Race and Class in Dubois's 7th Ward Join the University Libraries, the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work, and the University of Pennsylvania for an introduction to the work of W.E.B. DuBois and his mapping of Philadelphia's Seventh Ward, a project which will now be hosted online by Baylor University. Wilder Ever Still & Wilder! Armstrong Browning Library's annual Benefactors Day celebration welcomes Dr. Marjorie Stone and Dr. Beverly Taylor as they explore the Browning's courtship, Victorian wedding journeys, and an unpublished poem by Elizabeth Barrett Browning written during the Brownings' honeymoon. Celebrating Elizabeth Barrett Browning Through Cinematic Virtual Reality The Armstrong Browning Library & Museum proudly presents "Celebrating Elizabeth Barrett Browning Through Cinematic Virtual Reality" featuring Amanda Gardner, Ph.D. Candidate in the Department of Curriculum & Instruction of the Baylor School of Education. Learn Course Reserves Course Reading List Reserve Requests Form Events Voices & Vinyl 7 Past Events She hath a Spell Beyond Her Name: Byron's Poetic Reflections on Venice, Subjectivity, and Temporality 2022 United By Faith: Waco Community Open House 2022 Stalingrad on Screen: From Stalinist Propaganda to Putin-era Blockbuster 2021 Why Gospel Music Matters featuring Robert Darden and Robert Marovich 2021 Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center Grand Opening and Dedication 2021 Totalitarianism, Faith, and Dissent: Czech Catholic Vaclav Benda and Beyond 2021 Paulo Freire Centennial: Celebrating the Founder of Critical Pedagogy 2021 Texas Collection Fall Lecture: This Land Is Your Land, This Land Is My Land 2021 Redrawing Texas: Who Chooses Whom? 2021 Fiona Sampson: Virtual Poetry Reading and Lecture 2021 Facing Forward: Afghanistan After America 2021 Browning Day 2021 Spring Keston Panel: Where in the World? 2021 Pruit Symposium 2019 Teaching Fellows Presentations 19: 100 Years of Preserving Voters' Rights Investigating Impeachment: Context, Congress, and the Constitution Pictures, Portraits & Snapshots: Glimpses into Baylor's Special Libraries Texas Map Society Spring 2021 Meeting Voices & Vinyl: A Virtual Concert 2022 The Ward: Race and Class in Dubois's 7th Ward Wilder Ever Still & Wilder! Celebrating Elizabeth Barrett Browning Through Cinematic Virtual Reality Exhibits Art in the Carrels: BU Student Artists A Stitched-Up Life: Presenting the Work of Dr. Mary Ruth Smith Creations 2022 Crosshatch Galleries Crosshatch Galleries Exhibits Committee National Pan-Hellenic 10th Anniversary Exhibit W. R. Poage Legislative Library Permanent Exhibit Past Exhibits Baylor 175 Heritage Exhibit Baylor 175 Banner Exhibit Borrowed Light: Giclee Prints from Saint John's Abbey Drawn to Campus: A 1939 Cartoon Map of Baylor University On the Subject of Transforming Space: Works by Winter Rusiloski Sanger-Wood Canvas Exhibit History Fair Learning Together Library Literacies Workshops, Learning Opportunities & Training University Libraries One Bear Place #97148 Waco, TX 76798-7148 (254) 710-6702 Ask a Question libraryquestions@baylor.edu HoursHelp Desk+OneSearchMake a GiftSecurity Concerns? Call 254.710.2211Lost & Found General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Us Employment, Fellowships, and Internships Affordable Course Materials Summer Fellows Active Learning Lab Fellowship Baylor Libraries Summer Internship Programs Fundamentals of Data Research Fellowships Learning Design Fellowship Special Collections Teaching Fellowships Library Publications and Media Basic Information Inspiring Insight Baylor ITS and Libraries Magazine Our Libraries, Institutes, and Centers Media Inquiries Marketing & Communications Meet the Dean Mission & Vision Moody Starbucks People Find Your Librarian Organizational Charts Policies Publication & Digital Reproduction Policy & Procedures Spaces Study Zones in Moody-Jones Moody Pods Specialists Directory Archivists Arts and Special Collections Research Center Course Reserves Classroom Technology Data and Digital Scholarship Digital Humanities Digitization Exhibits Fundraising and Development Grants and Grantwriting HelpDesk+ (Technology Support) Information (Library Public Services) Library Instruction Instructional Design Makerspace Marketing and Communications Media Lab Metaliteracies OsoFast Campus Delivery OsoFast Interlibrary Loan Research Librarians Special Collections Visitor Information Map & Parking Research A-Z Databases Baylor Archival Repositories Database BEARdocs Borrow, Request, Renew Copyright Guidance Data & Digital Scholarship About Data & Digital Scholarship Data Research Fellows Data Scholar Workshops Data Visualization of the Week Projects and Tools Digital Collections High Performance and Research Computing Services HPRCS Services HPRCS Systems HPRCS Support HPRCS Staff Interlibrary Loan/OsoFast Distance Education & Faculty Abroad Library Services OsoFast Delivery Library Guides Managing Citations Off-campus Access OneSearch Research Support Data and Digital Scholarship Government Documents Library Literacies Liaison Program Public Services Discover Black Gospel Archive Black Gospel Music Preservation Project Black Gospel Music Royce-Darden Digital Collection Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center Black Gospel Preachers Project Distinctive Collections Baylor Athletics Archive Book Arts Collection The Browning Letters Texas Maps Collection Women's Collections Graduate Research Center GRC Map Makerspace Media Lab Moody and Jones Libraries New Student Resources Moody & Jones Virtual Tour 2022 Research Libraries, Institutes, and Centers Armstrong Browning Library and Museum Arts and Special Collections Research Center Institute for Oral History Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society W. R. Poage Legislative Library The Texas Collection and University Archives University Writing Center Learn Course Reserves Course Reading List Reserve Requests Form Events Voices & Vinyl 7 Past Events Exhibits Art in the Carrels: BU Student Artists A Stitched-Up Life: Presenting the Work of Dr. Mary Ruth Smith Creations 2022 Crosshatch Galleries National Pan-Hellenic 10th Anniversary Exhibit W. R. Poage Legislative Library Permanent Exhibit Past Exhibits History Fair Learning Together Library Literacies Workshops, Learning Opportunities & Training Visit Armstrong Browning Library and Museum About Collections Give to ABL Research & Instruction Visit Arts & Special Collections Research Center About Explore Special Collections Visit The Baylor Legal Research and Technology Center The Institute for Oral History About Give to the IOH Grants Research Resources Search Our Collection Social Media Student Resources Workshops The Keston Center for Religion, Politics & Society About Keston Collection Exhibits Give to the Keston Center Lectures and Symposia Research Visit Library and Academic Technology Services Experiential Learning Commons Learning Design Learning Spaces Learning Systems Contact LATS Moody and Jones Libraries Arts & Special Collections Research Center Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center HelpDesk+ and Experiential Learning Commons Hours Map and Location Guide Spaces University Writing Center The School of Education Learning Resource Center The Louise Herrington School of Nursing Learning Resource Center The Texas Collection and University Archives About The Texas Collection Collection Highlights Connect With Us On Social Media Research At The Texas Collection Texas Collection Visitor Information W. R. Poage Legislative Library About Collections Connect Give to the Poage Library Research Give Dean of Libraries Priorities Baylor Book Society & Library Endowed Book Fund Books for Bears and Bear Cubs Lanella Spinks Gray Baylor at Independence Fund Sue Margaret Hughes Library Internship Fund Graduate Research Center 2.0 Distinctive Collections Innovative Programming and Spaces Makerspace Upgrades Funding Opportunity Philanthropy's Impact on the Libraries Research Libraries, Institutes and Centers 2021 Development Highlights OsoFast Hours