Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Instruction and Curriculum Leadership About Programs Students Faculty News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact ICL Programs Undergraduate Majors and Minors Undergraduate DegreesABA Undergrad MinorK-12 Education Undergrad MinorYouth Development Undergrad Major Applied Behavior Analysis ABA MS and EdDABA Undergrad Minor Early Childhood Elementary Education Instruction and Curriculum Instructional Design & Technology Literacy School Library Specialist Secondary Education Special Education Graduate Certificates Urban EducationIDTLiteracy Leadership & CoachingAutism StudiesSchool Library Information SpecialistSTEM Teacher LeadershipSpecial Education Comprehensive Program Rankings Take Action ICL Degrees Apply Now ICL Advising Contact Us Home ICL Programs Secondary Education Secondary Education Welcome to the Secondary Education Program at the University of Memphis. We are a part of the Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Department (ICL) in the College of Education. We offer both an Undergraduate (BSEd), Graduate (MAT) Secondary Education degree, Master of Science degree with an emphasis in secondary education (M.S.), and Doctorate in Education (Ed.D.) with an emphasis in secondary education. BSEd Secondary Education Program (MATH) The ICL Department offers an Integrative Studies, Secondary Math Concentration degree: The objectives for a B.S.Ed. in Integrative Studies/Secondary Math are: (a) to understand how learning occurs, how students construct knowledge and acquire skills, and knows how to provide learning opportunities that support their intellectual, social, and personal development; (b) preparing, through intensive clinical experiences, highly qualified math teachers grades 6-12. In this program, you will: Gain a deeper understanding of the mathematics you will teach Work collaboratively with mathematics and education faculty Learn how to teach effectively in urban schools Spend a full year “in residence” in a local school (observing, tutoring, and teaching) Earn a teaching license upon successful completion of the program Master's Degree Programs MAT Secondary Education Program This course of study leads to initial certification in Secondary Education (6-12). The program prepares students to educate adolescents in a group setting. The program includes coursework in adolescent development, learning theory, and social foundations of education and teaching methods. Field hours are associated with this program. Master of Science Program The Master of Science (M.S.) degree with an emphasis in secondary education is available to individuals who are already licensed and want to expand their work in their teaching areas. It is also available to individuals without licensure who desire to work in education-related settings but do not need teacher licensure. This degree is directed toward the development of competencies necessary for leadership and advancement in K-12 settings and fields related to education. This degree is completed online. Doctoral Program The Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) degree extends knowledge and skills from a Master's degree by preparing students to conduct reality-based research that focuses on secondary education. This degree can be completed online. The program coordinator can assist you with any preliminary questions you may have about a doctorate program. The University is awarded the 2019 Best Online Colleges Master's Secondary Education award. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/25/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.