Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Licensing Licensing right arrow down arrow I'm On Campus right arrow down arrow Internal Requests Sponsorships Fundraising Internal Consumption Policy NIL Requests I'm Off Campus right arrow down arrow University Sponsorship Policy Crafter's Program Licensees right arrow down arrow Code of Conduct Artwork Do's and Don'ts Policies FAQs Find Bearcats Gear right arrow down arrow Look for the Label Home » About UC » Licensing » Artwork Do's and Don'ts Artwork Do's and Don'ts Below is a list of examples of artwork do's and don'ts when using the University's logos and marks. The do's and don'ts are provided as guidelines for artwork design. They are not representative of everything you can and cannot do. Please contact the Trademarks & Licensing Office if you have specific questions about artwork design or visit the University's Brand Guide, linked below. University of Cincinnati Brand Guide Artwork Do's Review the Branding Standards Manual before beginning the design process. Use either a (R) or TM next to all University logos and word marks. Keep safe space around all University logos. Officially registered student organizations through the Office of Student Activities & Leadership Development have access to the University's spirit marks when appropriate. When possible, departments and colleges should include the University's institutional logo in the design. When space does not allow for the use of the institutional logo, the "University of Cincinnati" should be used in text. When using a spirit mark, the organization's name must appear next to the logo. Officially registered student organizations through the Office of Student Activities & Leadership Development can create their own logo. In the logo, they can use "University of Cincinnati", "Cincinnati", or "UC" in text. Use of the University's logos and of the word "Bearcats" is not allowed. See the Student Organization Logo Guidelines (LINK) for more information. If you are using the University's brand in conjunction with a third party's brand, receive permission in writing from both the University and the third party prior to production. See the Endorsement Policy for more details. Submit a Student Organization Request Form once you have completed your artwork design and have selected a vendor. Contact the Trademarks & Licensing Office if you have any questions about artwork design. Artwork Don'ts University departments do not have permission to use spirit marks. Spirit marks may not be used to represent academic or administrative units of the University. These marks are approved for use only by the Athletics Department and on a case-by-case basis registered student organizations. Do not combine institutional logos with spirit marks. Do not alter any of the University's logos. Do not replace a letter or letters in a word with one of the University's logos. Do not use the logos on a busy background Do not use a flag in the design. See the Flag Policy for more details. Do not use the name, numbers and/or images of a University of Cincinnati student athlete in the design Do not create a design that promotes discrimination in any way. See the Discrimination Policy for more details. Do not use the University's brand on products that are risky or may be harmful to the mission or image of the University. See the Risky Products Policy for more details. Do not claim copyright or trademark any design that utilizes the University's brand. All rights belong to the University. Examples Do not replace letters in a word with a logo or add a logo to part of a sentence or headline. Do not place logos over photos, textures, or colors that make the logo difficult to read. Do not attach text to a logo while not preserving the safe space. Safe space is equal to the height of the C in 'Cincinnati'. Do not alter the logo in any way, including modifying the type, adding elements to the logo, not preserving the proportions, or changing the color. Do not apply a drop shadow to any logos. Do not use a logo more than once on a document or item. Do not mix spirit marks and University logos on the same document or item. Do not use the secondary logo without approval. The secondary logo should only be used when there are space limitations. University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 licensing@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top