Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Engineering Management MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Engineering Management MS Apply Request More Info Engineering Management MS Admissions Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Engineering Management Combine engineering theory with practice and advance from team member to team leader with the Master of Science in Engineering Management, an interdisciplinary program combining coursework from Temple’s College of Engineering and Fox School of Business. This highly flexible, 30-credit graduate degree, which is part of the Department of Engineering, Technology & Management in the College of Engineering, can be completed either online or in-person. The program is taught by well-known industry executives and experts, and it is designed to develop the business acumen to drive your rise through the corporate ranks or successfully launch your own venture. As a student in the Engineering Management MS, you will benefit from a focused curriculum that presents business knowledge within the context of firsthand engineering projects and prototypes. The program will prepare you to account for market and commercial factors within the product development process, incorporate customer patterns into product design, manage engineering projects, and understand the elements and functions of a financial report. Graduates gain a thorough understanding of how to effectively lead organizations and integrate business priorities with the requirements of technological product development. You will learn how the success or failure of an engineering project can impact the bottom line. In addition, you will demonstrate your management ability and gain hands-on experience by completing a capstone project in which you find a solution to a real-life industry problem. Engineers as Leaders At the core of the Engineering Management MS program is a single driving principle—engineers as leaders. Specialized training in engineering management specifically prepares graduates for key business roles in advancing technological sectors, whereas more generalized programs do not. Graduates of the Engineering Management MS program can transition to project management and project leadership roles, guiding teams across an array of industries, including transportation, pharmaceutics, utilities and more. Career Paths Engineering Management MS vs. MBA A Master of Science in Engineering Management combines an in-depth understanding of engineering theory with the tools of an entrepreneur, offering graduates a unique pathway to advancing their careers. While an MBA provides a broad-based business education focused on established markets such as retail and real estate, an Engineering Management MS offers a more tailored option. It focuses on technological sales in a business-to-business environment and simultaneously hones vital leadership skills, like motivation, accountability and the ability to translate complex theory into easy-to-understand instruction. With an Engineering Management MS, you will not only learn to design and build, but how to lead others in doing the same. David Sawhill ENG ’89, ENG ’19 “It was really inspiring to be in the classroom again, to be able to test different concepts and lines of thinking, and to be immersed in Temple's culture of diversity again, which is so important.” Read More Program Format & Curriculum The flexible Engineering Management MS is designed for working professionals and full-time students alike so they can successfully transition their engineering careers. All courses are offered on Temple’s Main Campus, as well as at Temple University Center City. Coursework can be completed online or as a blend of on-campus and online. A minimum of 16.5 credits will be taken in the College of Engineering and a minimum of six credits will be in the Fox School of Business, with the option of taking elective courses in both. You may complete the degree program in a single year of full-time study. Part-time graduate students generally complete it in two to three years. You have a maximum of five years in which to earn your master’s degree, which is awarded by the College of Engineering. Courses you are likely to take as part of the Engineering Management MS curriculum include the following. Design Thinking Idea to Invoice: Managing the New Product Development Process Lean Entrepreneurship / Innovation: Fast & Frugal Methods to Launch Startups & Test Innovative Ideas Plan, Pitch, and Fund an Entrepreneurial Start-Up See a full list of courses for the Engineering Management MS. Related Graduate Degrees Bioengineering MS Bioengineering PhD Master of Business Administration* Business Administration PhD* Civil Engineering MS Civil Engineering PhD Electrical Engineering MS Electrical Engineering PhD Environmental Engineering MS Environmental Engineering PhD Mechanical Engineering MS Mechanical Engineering PhD *Fox School of Business Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,546.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Explore financial aid and scholarship opportunities for the Engineering Management MS program. Our Advisors A faculty advisor will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate student advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. Accreditation The curriculum has been designed to meet the requirements of the American Society for Engineering Management. The Fox School of Business and Management is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business International. Learn about the business school’s national ranking. EN-EMGT-MS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Engineering Management MS Admissions Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info