Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs UofM Global Degrees Health Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate DegreesBusinessComputingHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesSocial Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate DegreesArtsBusinessComputingEducationEngineeringHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesLiberal StudiesSocial Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Health Professions | Undergraduate and Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs RN-BSN The University of Memphis Loewenberg College of Nursing (LCON) is proud to offer an online Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree to Registered Nurses based on the core values of excellence, competence and caring. By working closely with qualified faculty, you can earn a degree that will enhance your ability to positively influence the profession of nursing and ultimately positively affect patient health outcomes. Learn More Healthcare Leadership The online concentration in Healthcare Leadership (HCL) provides a comprehensive exposure to the field of leadership with coursework in areas such as the healthcare environment, professionalism, leadership, business skills, and communication. The need for qualified healthcare administrators with leadership acumen and ethical fitness is significant, as these individuals are in great demand within the dynamic and complex healthcare landscape. Learn More Health Sciences The Health Sciences concentration in the College of Health Sciences combines both basic sciences and behavioral sciences into an applied discipline to promote healthy living. It provides students with the foundation, knowledge, and skills in the area of health promotion. The program offers elective hours to allow students to pursue interests among the various health professions, such as occupational therapy, physician assistant, physical therapy, pharmacy, dental, etc. Learn More Health Services The Bachelor of Professional Studies (BPS) with a Concentration in Health Services in the College of Professional and Liberal Studies has three core tenets and they are liberal studies, professionalism, and service. This curriculum will prepare online students for a wide range of healthcare positions in the service industry such as hospitals, health departments, health agencies, state and federal government agencies, research facilities, schools, and industry. This program is also for experienced healthcare professionals who desire to pursue an online education in order to further knowledge in healthcare management, service, and healthcare trends by taking courses in such areas as etiquette and professionalism, service, financial management, interpersonal skills, laws, policies, global and population health, as well as the social context of healthcare. Learn More Graduate Programs Executive Master of Health Administration The Online Executive Master of Health Administration degree offered at the University of Memphis School of Public Health is one of the UofM nationally-ranked programs, currently 33rd in US News and World Report health administration rankings. More than a diploma, the UofM online EMHA delivers an educational experience designed for the busy healthcare professional aspiring for advanced leadership roles in the health care industry. Learn More Master of Science in Health Studies– Health Promotion The master's degree in Health Promotion is a fully online, 30-credit hour program which emphasizes the practical application of health promotion methods supported by theoretical foundations, relevant research and best practices. Learn More Master of Science in Nursing – Nursing Education Secure your nursing future with an award-winning education through the Loewenberg College of Nursing. Their online graduate programs have been ranked #17 by the U.S. News and World Report. The MSN – Nursing Education concentration prepares nurse educators for careers in various healthcare settings. Learn More Master of Science in Nursing – Executive Leadership Ranked #17 by the U.S. News and World Report for their online graduate nursing programs, the Loewenberg College of Nursing is the place learn how to advance your nursing administration career. The Executive Leadership concentration prepares nurses for management and executive nursing roles in various healthcare settings. Learn More Master of Science in Nursing – Family Nurse Practitioner Part of an online degree program ranked #17 by the U.S. News and World Report, the Family Nurse Practitioner concentration prepares nurses to become nationally-certified, state-licensed advanced practice nurses who care for patients across the lifespan. It is a fully-online program with on-campus intensives. Learn More Doctorate in Nursing (PhD) The Loewenberg College of Nursing PhD Program is a seven-semester (3.5 years), full-time program offered online that prepares nurse researchers, scholars and educators in academic nursing and/or healthcare settings. Learn More Master of Science in Nutrition – Environmental Nutrition The master's program in Environmental Nutrition is a fully online, 33-credit hour program that emphasizes nutritional issues through an environmental lens. The program examines the relationships between food, nutrition, and the environment. Learn More Master of Science in Exercise Nutrition The master's degree in Exercise Nutrition is a fully online, 30-credit-hour program. Balance school and life with the flexibility of our UofM Global program designed for those who desire increased knowledge and understanding of exercise and nutrition science. The program provides coursework in research methods and statistics, exercise physiology, cellular nutrition and supportive areas of your choosing. Learn More Master of Public Health - Generalist The CEPH-accredited Master of Public Health degree is a 42-credit degree that may be completed fully online. The Generalist concentration allows students to tailor their degree based on their own area of interest in public health. Graduates are prepared for positions in government agencies, health systems, and non-profits. Learn More Master of Public Health - Epidemiology The 42-credit, fully online, CEPH-accredited, Master of Public Health degree with a concentration in Epidemiology focuses on epidemiologic methods and research skills such as study design, data collection methods, analysis, and interpretation and reporting of data. Learn More Master of Public Health - Social and Behavioral Sciences The CEPH-accredited Master of Public Health with a concentration in Social and Behavioral Sciences is a 42-credit program that may be completed fully online. Students learn about the social, behavioral, and environmental determinants of health and to develop and evaluate culturally appropriate interventions that improve community health. Learn More Master of Public Health - Urban Health The CEPH-accredited Master of Public Health with a concentration in Urban Health is a 42-credit degree that can be completed fully online. The Urban Health concentration focuses on complex health issues specific to urban areas, racial disparities, and the skills needed to improve the health of diverse urban populations. Learn More Family Nurse Practitioner Post-Masters Certificate The Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) Certificate program provides a formal program of study for master’s-prepared nurses interested in taking the national certification exam to practice as a Family Nurse Practitioner. Learn More Nursing Education Post-Masters Certificate The Nursing Education Certificate program provides a formal program of study for masters prepared nurses interested in obtaining a credential allowing them to teach in in various educational settings. Learn More Certificate in Health Systems Leadership The Health Systems Leadership graduate certificate provides students with training in areas critical to 21st century healthcare, public health, and community health leadership. Learn More Certificate in Population Health SPH is pleased to offer a fully online graduate certificate in Population Health. For public health practitioners and other healthcare leaders who are interested in improving health outcomes in the community. Can be completed in two semesters. Learn More Certificate in Sport Nutrition and Dietary Supplementation The graduate certificate in Sport Nutrition and Dietary Supplementation is particularly useful for registered dietitians/nutritionists, strength and conditioning coaches, personal trainers, and healthcare providers (e.g., nurses, pharmacists) who may receive questions from athletes and/or patients specific to the topics of sport nutrition and dietary supplementation. The certificate consists of three required courses and one elective. All courses are delivered online and can be completed in any sequence. Learn More About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 6/2/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.