Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Population Studies and Training Center Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Social Foundations of Health Disparities Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood Project Categories Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Undergraduates Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities External Funding Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Social Foundations of Health Disparities Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood Project Categories Rhode Island Domestic International Research to Policy Spatial Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates NICHD Postdoctoral Fellows Predoctoral Trainees NICHD Predoctoral Fellows Past NICHD Fellows Admission and Requirements Funding Opportunities Workshops Predoctoral Training Program Application 2021-22 Undergraduates Migration Studies Certificate PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Migration Studies Initiative About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Remembering Sidney Goldstein Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship Manager of Communications and Outreach Postdoctoral Research Associate in Population Studies Summer 2021 Proctorship Program for predocs External Funding Research Project How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood PSTC sociologist Jennifer Candipan has received a Research Grant on Education - Large from the Spencer Foundation to pursue novel research that will explore the relationship between neighborhoods and schools and their combined and independent effects on students’ mental health and educational attainment from childhood into early adulthood. Along with co-investigators Katrina Walsemann of University of Maryland and Nicole Hair of University of South Carolina, Candipan will utilize data from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID) as well as over three decades’ worth of administrative data from neighborhoods and schools. The researchers plan to apply the data to measure changes in racial and ethnic segregation of schools and neighborhoods alongside students’ mental health and education outcomes. “This project aims to contribute new knowledge about how racial/ethnic segregation in neighborhoods and schools relates to mental health and academic persistence from childhood to early adulthood,” Candipan explained. Candipan and her co-investigators are also interested in situations in which schools experience differing rates of racial/ethnic change from the neighborhoods they serve, and on the effects this can have on children. "We hope that our research will inform urban, housing, and educational policies, since these areas are linked. We also hope our study will shed light on how changes occurring within neighborhoods and schools may also affect children, which is important given how urban demographic change is reshaping cities across the U.S.” Investigator(s) Jennifer Candipan Other Research Projects What Drives Racial/Ethnic Disparities in School Discipline? Understanding Mechanisms to Inform Policy Solutions Uncovering the untold story of enslaved Native Americans Selecting partners in first marriages and remarriages The long-term impact of income transfers during childhood Spatial analyses of segregation trends: segregation and neighborhood change American Communities Project Research Categories Rhode Island Projects Domestic Projects International Projects Research to Policy Projects Spatial Projects Selected Publications Implications of Social and Legal Status on Immigrants’ Health in Disaster Zones. Elizabeth Fussell et al. American Journal of Public Health. 2018. 108(12): 1617-1620. The Uptick in Income Segregation: Real Trend or Random Sampling Variation? John R. Logan, Arnold Foster, Jun Ke, And Fan Li. American Journal of Sociology. 2018. 124: 185-222. Masculinity, Money, and the Postponement of Parenthood in Nigeria. Smith, D. J. Population and Development Review. 2020. 46(1): 101-120. More Publications Back to top Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Population Studies and Training Center Population Studies and Training Center Brown University Box 1836 68 Waterman St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2668 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat