Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit Take a Tour Explore Campus Explore South Bend About Visit Give Alumni Athletics University of Notre Dame Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics Home Contact Search Menu Take a Tour Home › Visit › Take a Tour Notre Dame is one of the most visited sites in Indiana. Our visitors range from prospective students to conference or event attendees, to people who have just always wanted to visit. We’re happy to accommodate them all. Admissions Tour Tours for prospective students are usually in conjunction with an information session appointment. The Office of Undergraduate Admissions schedules these requests. Schedule an admissions visit General Tour The Eck Visitors Center’s free public tour offers a historical and social overview of life at Notre Dame. Most tours will include visits to the Grotto, Basilica of the Sacred Heart, Main Building (the Golden Dome), and the Hesburgh Library (“Touchdown Jesus”). Tours of Notre Dame Stadium are scheduled separately. Guided public tours are available at various times throughout the year. Groups of 10 or more must arrange for a private tour. Tours are limited to the first 25 people who register within 30 minutes of the tour in person at the Eck Visitors Center. Advance reservations and telephone reservations are not accepted. Tour dates and times Notre Dame Stadium Tour Tours of “The House that Rockne Built” feature the opportunity to take photos on the field as well as in front of the famed “Play Like a Champion Today” sign. Notre Dame Stadium tour information Parking Visitor parking is available at the following locations: Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore (one-hour parking) Morris Inn (for guests of the hotel or its restaurants) Legends of Notre Dame (for customers only) Visitor Lot (paid parking) Joyce and Compton Lots (paid parking) Please visit map.nd.edu and select the Visitor Parking overlay to view these areas on a map. Note: There are different guidelines and designations for parking during home football games and other athletics events. Take a Tour Explore Campus Explore South Bend Quick Links Bookstore Employment Tour InsideND Academic Calendar University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning Notice of Non-Discrimination Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit