Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Master of Transportation Safety Administration A First-of-Its-Kind Opportunity Be a Trailblazer. Save Lives. Change Futures. Meet the MTSA Technical Advisors First Cohort of MSTA Students Graduate. Congratulations, New Clemson Alumni! The Master of Transportation Safety Administration is the ﬁrst degree program of its kind in the United States. We are excited to offer this innovative, one-of-a-kind experience to students throughout the country and throughout the world. MTSA is a two-year, 30-credit-hour, non-thesis interdisciplinary program that incorporates all the disciplines involved in road safety, including both behavioral and infrastructure. The degree is aligned with national and international standards for core competencies that all transportation safety professionals should possess. Individuals completing the program will literally be transformed into lifesavers and change-makers as they become leaders skilled in developing, administering, and evaluating road safety programs, including the complex interaction of the human-vehicle-road system. REQUEST INFORMATION APPLY NOW MAKE A GIFT 2020-21 SAFETY EVENTS & CAMPAIGNS Clemson University Events MAY 31 Clemson Sandhill Farmers Market 2:00 pm to 6:00 pm Clemson Sandhill REC JUN 3 Palmetto Sport Horse Classic 8:00 am to 7:00 pm T. Ed Garrison Livestock Arena JUN 4 Palmetto Sport Horse Classic 8:00 am to 7:00 pm T. Ed Garrison Livestock Arena JUN 5 Palmetto Sport Horse Classic 8:00 am to 7:00 pm T. Ed Garrison Livestock Arena Your Department or Program Name on Twitter Your Department or Program Name on Twitter Your Department or Program Name on Faceboook Your Department or Program Name on Twitter Home About MTSA Apply Now Leadership Request Information Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram