Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of the Arts Department of Theatre and Dance (Dance) Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Contact Facilities Faculty and Staff Directory Students Show Extended Academic Roadmaps Advising (Current Students) Advising (New Students) Auditions Clubs & Organizations New Student Advising & Registration Program of Study Scholarships Student Success Center University Catalogue (2022-2023) Events Show Extended Theatre & Dance Productions Visitor Information Discount Information FlexTix Subscriptions Alumni & Friends Show Extended Alumni News CSUF Dance Alumni Series MAMM Alliance Equity and Inclusion FAQs Awards & Achievements Art Music Theatre Purchase Tickets Get Connected Donate Now dance video reclamation Welcome to the Department of Theatre and Dance • Dance Program FAQs Guest Artist Series Dance Audition Awards and Achievements What our alumni say about the Dance Program Alumni News Statement of Purpose: The Bachelor of Arts in Dance is for students seeking a broad and rich background in both theory and practice. The degree is designed to foster the skills, understanding, and discipline of developing dance artists. To this end, our faculty, are united in their dedication to teaching each student as an individual. Our performance-based curriculum includes intensive training in ballet, modern/contemporary dance, and dance composition; complemented by improvisation, dance history, kinesiology, pedagogy, Hip Hop styles, African American concert dance history, Jazz and diverse performance experiences. As we strive to educate, inspire, and motivate, our nurturing, yet rigorous, environment offers our dance majors many opportunities to develop their unique potential. Our graduating students leave prepared technically and creatively to pursue work in dance and related areas. Our program is committed to fostering a full experience for each of our students. We mindfully respect and value students of every race/ethnicity, age, ability, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, socioeconomic status, geography, citizenship status, body type, political view and religion. Each of our student’s unique experiences, beliefs and values brings an awareness and consciousness that contributes greatly to our community of learners. We are continuously evolving our program, policies, and practices to ensure that all individuals are supported, nurtured, and thriving. IN THE NEWS Dance Student’s Greatest Lesson Was the Beauty of Imperfection As a new dance student at Cal State Fullerton, Moises Felix was a perfectionist. But a former dancer changed his mindset for the better. read more Dance Major’s Dreams Take Flight With ROTC Commissioning Dance major Sarah Berlinger was one of 20 CSUF ROTC cadets commissioned as second lieutenants in the U.S. Army spring of 2020. read more Graham Technique Leaps Into "Spring Dance Theatre" Fall 2019, Katie Munder and fellow dance majors learned an energy-fueled piece with the help of Liberty Harris, rehearsal director for Dance Kaleidoscope. read more Assoc. Professor Shares His Journey from Aerospace to Choreography Alvin Rangel-Alvarado grew up in Puerto Rico wanting to become an aerospace engineer. But his passion for dance eventually lead him to Cal State Fullerton as an educator. READ MORE California State University, Fullerton has been accredited by the National Association of Schools of Dance since 1982. For more information: National Association of Schools of Dance, 11250 Roger Bacon Drive, Suite 21, Reston, VA 20190-5248 | Email • NASD Website Land Acknowledgement The Department of Theatre and Dance acknowledges our presence on the traditional, ancestral and unceded territory of the Gabrielino/Tongva Nation.We pay our respects to the Indigenous land caretakers past, present, and emerging. For more information please visit the Gabrielino-Tongva Tribe website This site is maintained by College of the Arts. Last Published 5/23/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact jbussell@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.13 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.