Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Play video: Play Video: Princeton Profiles: Zoe Sims, finding purpose and passion in the natural world Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Princeton Profiles: Zoe Sims, finding purpose and passion in the natural world Jamie Saxon, with additional reporting by Danielle Alio Sept. 27, 2018, 9:30 a.m. Growing up in her native Hawaii, Zoe Sims, a 2017 alumna, discovered a passion for ecology that began with exploring coral reefs. At Princeton, she conducted two years of research for her senior thesis, studying the effects of groundwater pollution on coral reefs in Bermuda. She distinguished herself as a scientist and a student, majoring in ecology and evolutionary biology and a certificate in environmental studies. After graduation, she embarked on a new journey through a one-year Princeton in Africa fellowship at the Mpala Research Centre, a multidisciplinary and multi-institutional field laboratory on a 50,000-acre reserve and ranch in central Kenya. During her fellowship, she expanded her interests in wildlife/human interaction, science and nature writing, and community outreach. "Living and learning at Mpala has changed me in ways that I never expected," Sims said. "I am definitely at my happiest when I'm outside in nature." Founded in 1999, Princeton in Africa (PiAf) matches talented and passionate college graduates with organizations working across Africa for yearlong service placements. The program is open to graduating seniors and young alumni from any college or university accredited in the United States. PiAf fellows have helped improve education and public health, source fresh water and alternative energy, increase family incomes and more. Since its founding in 1999, PiAf has had 550 fellows in 36 countries. "Princeton in Africa pairs beautifully with Princeton’s dedication to public service because it offers students who learned about service, maybe through an internship as an undergraduate, the opportunity to continue doing that and really to test those skills in a real-life work environment," said Jodi Ringel, executive director of PiAf. "We hear from alumni and fellows all the time that this is not necessarily the continuation of your education but more the first step in your career. So we are seeking out individuals who want to dedicate not just a short period, but really a lifetime to serving others in some capacity." Sims' responsibilities at Mpala included writing stories for the center’s website and newsletter about the research going on at Mpala, such as its successful effort to vaccinate local dogs against rabies. She provided logistical and administrative support to the many researchers and graduate students from all over Africa and the world who come to Mpala, as well as undergraduate students from Princeton and Columbia University who participate in Princeton's spring semester field program and the Department of Anthropology's "Human Evolution" course, which includes a spring break trip to Mpala. She also helped run programming for dozens of schoolchildren who participate in Mpala's conservation clubs. Sims said that every aspect of her daily experiences at Mpala reinforced and enriched her connection to the natural world. "As human beings, we are part of our ecosystems, everywhere we are. I find that being here at Mpala in Kenya, I'm more acutely aware of that fact — partly because every morning I wake up to the sound of guinea fowl in the bushes outside my room, and many days I go to sleep at night to the sound of hyenas in the distance calling to each other," she said. "All of these things are just these reminders that I am part of nature." Sims also forged deep connections and friendships with the dozens of staff members at Mpala and their families — many of whom have lived in the area all their lives and have children who attend the pre-K-fifth grade school at Mpala. "I have never gone to a new place before and felt so quickly at home and so welcomed with such open arms," she said. In early September, Sims completed the last element of her fellowship at Mpala — "on-boarding" the two new fellows who will replace her. After leaving Mpala, she traveled to the Kenyan coast — "home to some incredible coral reef ecosystems!" — which brought her full circle to her undergraduate work. She is taking an eastern route home to Hawaii, with stops to visit a friend who is doing a Princeton in Asia fellowship in Thailand, and another who is working in Hong Kong. Once home, she plans to focus on looking for her next position, which she hopes will relate to her interest in applied environmental science, especially the intersection of ecology and human food production. Related Stories A passion for nature drives senior Zoe Sims' excellence in environmental studies Read more Princeton celebrates 25 years of research and teaching at Mpala, Kenya Read more Wild science: The nature of the Mpala Research Centre Read more Wild Science: Photos from the Mpala Research Centre Read more Mpala, Kenya: 'Walking where our ancestors walked' Read more Provost Lee visits Mpala Research Centre, alumni in Kenya Read more A delicate balance: Student films examine needs of humans and wildlife in Kenya Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice