Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Reproductive Health Prenatal Care When should I start prenatal medical care? It is important to start prenatal care as soon as possible, so that you can begin incorporating good nutrition, and adequate physical activity during your pregnancy. Health Services does not provide obstetrical (pregnancy) care, but your medical provider will be glad to give you a referral for an obstetrician or nurse-midwife in the community. Does my health insurance cover prenatal care? If you have the University-sponsored health insurance plan, you do not have to get a referral from Health Services in order to have the insurance cover your obstetrical care. Obstetrical care is covered the same way as any other medical condition. Specific questions about the University-sponsored plan should be directed to the Office of Insurance and Risk at 401.863-1703. If you have another health insurance plan, you should check to determine what coverage you have, what you have to do to get the bills paid, and how to maximize your coverage. If you don't know the name of your health insurance company, you can call Health Services at 401.863-3953 to find out. What steps can I take to ensure a healthy pregnancy? The key to preparing for a healthy birth is take care of your own health. The healthier you are, the healthier your baby will be. Below are suggestions you can use to optimize your health during pregnancy. Eat a healthy diet. A healthy diet is vital for a healthy pregnancy. It's the best thing you can do for your baby's mind and body. It will also make you strong and ready for labor, delivery, and breastfeeding. Ask your medical provider about specific nutritional guidelines. Get plenty of exercise. Walking and swimming can help strengthen your body for your pregnancy and delivery. Be sure to consult with your medical provider about your exercise plans to be sure you're not overdoing it. Get plenty of rest. Be sure to get enough sleep and avoid as much stress as you can. Avoid alcohol and other drugs. Prescription drugs, alcohol, illegal drugs, caffeine, cigarettes, and even over-the-counter drugs can be harmful to the developing fetus. Check with your medical provider before you take any medications or substances or if you're concerned about something you've already taken during your pregnancy. After a baby is born, you should talk to your medical provider about medications, including birth control options, and their potential impact on breastfeeding. Try to avoid infections. Certain infections such as bacterial vaginosis and sexually transmitted infections can be more harmful during your pregnancy than when you are not pregnant. Be sure to talk with your medical provider if you think you have an infection or if you experience recurrent infections so that you can get treatments that are safe for you and your baby. See your medical provider frequently. It is important to check in with your medical provider regularly. If your medical provider believes you have a "low" risk pregnancy, you can expect to visit them at least once a month for the first 7 months, every 2 or 3 weeks for the 8th month, and weekly during the 9th month until delivery. If you have a "high" risk pregnancy, if this is your first baby, or if you have other health issues that need to be monitored, you can expect to see your medical provider more frequently. Call if you experience any symptoms. Know the signs of premature labor and any warning signs that something might be wrong with your pregnancy. Symptoms to be aware of include: Sudden weight gain of more than 2 pounds within 1 day Severe swelling of the ankles, legs, or feet Severe or repeated headaches that last more than 2 or 3 hours and are not relieved with the medication your clinician has recommended Fainting Blurred vision, flashes of light, or spots before your eyes Pain or burning with urination Marked increase in thirst with little urination for an entire day Unusual smelling vaginal discharge Light vaginal bleeding or spotting It is important to call your medical provider if you have any of these warning signs. Related Links To read more in depth about steps you can take to have a healthy pregnancy, you can visit: Planned Parenthood CDC's Women's Health Portal About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook