Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Landscape Architecture (B.L.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Landscape architecture involves planning, designing and managing the physical environment at all scales - from small sites to entire regions. Although the profession is little more than 150 years old, it has quickly evolved into a position of great importance. Landscape architects work in densely populated urban areas, wilderness landscapes and everything in between. They are creative problem-solvers, sensitive to environmental and cultural issues, and keenly interested in people and their quality of life. As a Clemson landscape architecture major, you will learn design and place-making strategies for a variety of project types including: community revitalization; ecological restoration; public plazas and streetscapes; parks and open space systems; pedestrian trails and water (canoeing, kayaking) trails systems; college campus design; resorts and residential design; and waterfronts. Inside the classroom and out, you'll have many opportunities to work with classmates in allied fields such as architecture, city and regional planning, construction science and management, real estate development and historic preservation. This professionally accredited program will give you the necessary critical thinking skills so when you graduate you will be ready to enter the design profession and will be qualified to become a licensed landscape architect. FAST FACTS Lee Hall, home of the landscape architecture program, features a highly sustainable new building with an extensive green roof. Our internationally renowned faculty have expertise in professional practice, health and design, ecology, cultural landscapes and historic preservation, computer applications, urban design, community revitalization and international design education. Our Fluid Campus offers study in Charleston, Italy and Spain, cultivating the understanding of diverse urban environments and cultures. You will study alongside students and faculty from across the U.S. and the world on a scenic campus in the beautiful Piedmont eco-region. Concentrated study in diverse settings cultivates our graduates' understanding of global issues. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY The Bachelor of Landscape Architecture is a four-year nationally accredited professional degree program. The program is generalist, meaning it covers the major areas of practice and building from design basics to the advanced design studio experience, such as large-scale landscape planning; parks, recreation and open space planning; and regional, urban and community design. Clemson's program is noted for its special emphasis on the art and science of design. For that reason, the landscape architecture design studio experience is at the center of the program - 42 hours of studio are required. Studio experience is supported by other courses inside and outside the landscape architecture curriculum that provide grounding in landscape history; horticulture; social, cultural and environmental issues; as well as aesthetics. Students may also choose to focus elective credits on one of three emphasis areas: Cultural issues Environmental issues Professional development The program's location in Lee Hall gives students the important opportunity to interact with faculty and other students in the allied areas of city and regional planning, real estate development, architecture, and construction science and management. Curriculum Landscape Architecture, BLA Similar Majors Architecture (B.A.) Art (BFA/B.A.) Environmental Engineering (B.S.) Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Landscape architecture majors have the opportunity to work beyond the classroom and engage in building, designing and planning. Our resources provide you with the opportunities to expand your knowledge through hands-on experience. Fluid Campus A semester of off-campus study is required, and you can go to one of our three Fluid Campuses in Charleston; Genoa, Italy; and Barcelona, Spain. Each off-campus program offers unique courses, cultural expiences and study opportunities.Learn More » Outreach Work closely with faculty and communities as you engage in service learning projects. Recent projects include a playground design for the Greenville Zoo, a mill village revitalization project and a neighborhood park design. Hands-on You will have access to our Digital Design Shop and Materials Lab, which is a hub for student and faculty design investigations and experimentation with digital fabrication, cad/cam, and rapid prototyping. Study The Gunnin Architecture Library has more than 46,000 volumes of books and periodicals and 183 periodical subscriptions related to visual arts, design and building. Audiovisual equipment and architectural drafting aids are also available for use. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Student Chapter of the American Society of Landscape Architects Creative Inquiry AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Designer Kimley-Horn Urban Designer Metropolitan Nashville Planning Department Park Planner Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission Landscape Architect HGOR Landscape Designer Norris Design RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES Master of Landscape Architecture University of Colorado Master of Science in Real Estate Johns Hopkins University Master of Urban Design Harvard University Master of Landscape Architecture University of Illinois Master of Landscape Architecture University of Texas COMMON CAREER AREAS Private Sector Small Landscape Architecture Practice Design and Build Firms Land Management and Regional Planning Small to Medium Interdisciplinary Firms Large Multidisciplinary Firms Real Estate Developers Public Sector National Park Service U.S. Forest Service Department of Natural Resources Local and State Planning Offices Public Works Local and State Parks and Recreation Offices County and State Park Service Army Corps of Engineers Design and Management Community Design Landscape Design Institutional Landscapes and Campus Planning Project Management Natural Resources Conservation Cultural Landscapes and Historic Preservation Ecological Restoration Real Estate Development Research Memorial and Cemetery Design Brownfields and Industrial Site Reclamation Wilderness Areas and Trails Recreational and Regional Open Space Systems Residential Garden Design Resort Design Theme Parks Urban Design Key link - Career Discovery http://www.asla.org/CareerDiscovery.aspx FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jessica Garcia Recruiter jgarci6@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Landscape Architecture (B.L.A.) Architecture (B.A.) Art (BFA/B.A.) Environmental Engineering (B.S.) Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management (B.S.)