Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Home About Events News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Site Navigation Home About History Staff Advisors Postdoctoral, Faculty, and Graduate Fellows Visiting Faculty Practitioner Fellows Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Events Past Events Co-sponsorship Requests Featured Events Around Campus Signature Series Underlying Conditions The Third Rail Series Writing for a Broken World What I Am Thinking About Now "First Works" Series Race at the Center of the Humanities New Book Talks STEM Conversation Series Dr. Jean Shim Yun Lecture Series Graduate Professionalization Workshop Series Critical Conversations Summer Reading Series News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Brown Faculty Fellows Application deadline: Thursday, March 31st, 2022, for fall 2022. CSREA invites tenured and other long-term faculty whose scholarship focuses on race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the United States and work that connects the U.S. to related transnational contexts, to apply to be a CSREA Brown Faculty Fellow for the fall 2022 academic term. Fellows will contribute to the intellectual life of CSREA through engaged participation in scholarly and social activities at the Center. Applicants should be pursuing projects that are scholarly in nature. Please note that the terms of the program may be subject to change. This program is an in-person fall semester fellowship. The terms of the program may be subject to change. THE FELLOWSHIP Awardees are provided with $2,500 in stipend for a semester-long fellowship and up to $1,000 in reimbursable research funds Attendance and participation at the in-person CSREA Research Seminar (the exact number of sessions to be determined) is required Fellows are expected to participate in social community-building activities sponsored by the Center (e.g. Wind Down Wednesdays, lectures, events, etc.) ELIGIBILITY For Brown University faculty of all ranks working on issues of race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the U.S. and in the Americas or in related transnational contexts pursuing projects that are scholarly in nature. Applicants must: Be a member of the regular faculty Have the support of their Department Chair for the fellowship APPLICATION PROCESS Applicants must complete this application form to be fully considered. Applications will be reviewed by the CSREA Faculty Advisory Board (FAB). Other relevant faculty within or external to Brown may be consulted at the discretion of the FAB. DEADLINE Applications for the fall 2022 academic term are due on Thursday, March 31st, 2022. Awardees will be notified in May 2022. The first convening of the selected cohort of fellows will be in September 2022. Questions? Please contact CSREA Program Coordinator, Maggie Murphy. APPLICATION FORM Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Opportunities For Graduate Students Stay Connected Subscribe to our newsletter Visit Our YouTube Channel The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) Brown University Box 2032 96 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5775 Fax: 401-863-5784 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top