Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Husky Huddle-up podcast Tune in to the Husky Huddle Up Podcast New podcast episodes are released throughout the summer for our new UW parents and families. Listen to all past episodes below. Episode 10 – Student perspective In this episode, Carlos introduces guest host Chloe Jiselle First Year Programs Student Coordinator. Chloe is joined by First Year Programs student staff Kent Vo, Dianna Laguan, Morgan Miller and Lucas Godfrey. Tune in to hear more about student perspectives at the University of Washington. Episode 10 Youtube Video with Closed Captioning Episode 9 – Disability Resources for Students In this episode, Jannah & Carlos are joined by Adiam Tesfay from the Disability Resources for Students Office. Tune in to learn more about Disability Resources at the University of Washington. Resources mentioned in the episode Episode 9 Youtube Video with Closed Captioning Episode 8 – UWPD In this episode Jannah and Carlos are joined by Officer Gabriel Golden from the UW Police Department. Tune in to learn more about campus safety and safety resources at the University of Washington. Resources mentioned in the episode Episode 8 Youtube Video with Closed Captioning Episode 7 – UW Recreation In this episode Jannah and Carlos are joined by Matt Newman the Director of UW Recreation. Tune in to learn more about recreation resources at the University of Washington. Resources mentioned in the episode Episode 7 Youtube Video with Closed Captioning Episode 6 – Career and Internship Center In this episode Jannah and Carlos are joined by CJ Sanchez, a career coach from the Career and Internship Center. Tune in to learn more about career and internship opportunities and resources at the University of Washington. Resources mentioned in the episode Episode 6 Youtube Video with Closed Captioning Episode 5 – Center for International Relations & Cultural Leadership Exchange In this episode, Jannah & Carlos are joined by Felipe Martinez from Center for International Relations & Cultural Leadership Exchange. Tune in to learn more about international relations and cultural leadership resources at the University of Washington. Resources mentioned in the episode Episode 5 Youtube Video with Closed Captioning Episode 4 (part 3/3) – Foster Advising This episode is part 3 of 3. In this episode, Jannah and Carlos are joined by Susan Sherbak from the Foster School of Business. Tune in to learn valuable information about Undergraduate Advising in the Business Department at the University of Washington. Resources mentioned in the episode Episode 4 (part 3/3) Youtube Video with Closed Captioning Episode 4 (part 2/3) – Undergraduate Academic Affairs Advising This episode is part 2 of 3. In this episode, Jannah and guest co-host Leanne are joined by Dan Feetham from UAA Advising and Shanai Lechtenberg from the Engineering Department. Tune in to learn valuable information about general advising through Undergraduate Academic Affairs Advising at the University of Washington. Resources mentioned in the episode Episode 4 (part 2/3) Youtube Video with Closed Captioning Episode 4 (part 1/3) – Engineering Advising This episode is part 1 of 3. In this episode, Jannah and guest co-host Leanne are joined by Dan Ratner and Shanai Lechtenberg from the Engineering Department. Tune in to learn valuable information about Undergraduate Advising in the Engineering Department at the University of Washington. Resources mentioned in the episode Episode 4 (part 1/3) Youtube Video with Closed Captioning Episode 3 (part 2/2) – HFS Dining This episode is part 2 of 2. In this episode, Jannah & Carlos are joined by Tracey MacRae, UW’s Campus Executive Chef. Tune in to learn valuable information about student dining at the University of Washington. Resources mentioned in the episode Episode 3 (part 2/2) Youtube Video with Closed Captioning Episode 3 (part 1/2) – HFS Residence This episode is part 1 of 2. In this episode, Jannah & Carlos are joined by Katie & Rianne from HFS (Housing and Food Services). Tune in to learn valuable information about Residence Halls at the University of Washington. Resources mentioned in the episode Episode 3 (part 1/2) Youtube Video with Closed Captioning Episode 2 – Family Orientation Jannah & Carlos dive deeper into Family Orientation at the UW. Learn how to get information, ask questions and learn about strategies to support your student. Resources mentioned in the episode Episode 2 Youtube Video with Closed Captioning Episode 1 – Parent & Family Programs and First Year Programs Jannah & Carlos discuss the services provided by the Parent & Family Programs and First Year Programs offices. Episode 1 Youtube Video with Closed Captioning Episode 0 – Meet your hosts and learn more about future podcast episodes. Episode 0 Youtube Video with Closed Captioning University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA