Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Classroom Practices Learning Contexts Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Inclusive Teaching Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Critical Reading Promoting Effective Course Reading A disconnect occasionally emerges between students' reading strategy and the styles of reading that are most helpful for their success in your class. This disconnect may manifest in lower levels of course participation and/or less evidence of content mastery in course assessments. The following suggestions, which draw from recent scholarship on effective interventions that promote student success with reading, may aid in providing students with the guidance necessary to be effective readers in your course. [Note: This advice will be helpful to all students struggling with reading skills. Some notes may be particularly useful for English Language Learners to advance their proficiency. Also be mindful of individual student needs which may warrant accommodation in partnership with Student and Employee Accessibility Services.] 1. Normalize what it means to be an effective reader (Bean, 2001; Lang, 2016; Wohl & Fine, 2017) Talk about your own process for reading. Does your field always read deeply, or do you have strategies about what can be "skimmed?" What do you look for when you read deeply versus skim? How might the norms for reading in your discipline differ from students' prior experiences? Signal to students on the syllabus or in the lecture: To what pieces or aspects of readings do you pay particular attention? What is okay for students to skim? Encourage students to find a note-taking strategy that works: notes in the margins; paraphrasing in a notebook/annotated bibliography; a separate location for new vocabulary; using reading guides (see reverse). "In our view, skimming and deep reading are two poles of a continuum, along which readers slide within and between different texts. Active skimming, which we endorse, involves skimming texts, while deep reading specific sections and sentences deemed pertinent to the readers' intended reading goals." Quote from Wohl & Fine, 2017, p. 221 2. Provide context for the reading to invoke student investment (Bean, 2001) Always explain why a reading was included: what the students will learn from it? How will the text shape class discussion and engagement with future material? Point to readings that will be important to their success on upcoming assessments. Highlight specific features/structures of the text that may be new to students and how they should be used (e.g. footnotes). 3. Encourage notes that involve questions and explanation, as they promote retention (Bean, 2001; Hora & Olsen, 2017; Lang, 2017) Advise students that if a question emerges while reading, write it down, and look for the answer in the material. Explain the answer in writing once it is found. Paraphrasing the material should occur for all significant readings and involve the student's interpretation of what the core ideas of the reading. Encourage taking explanatory notes in the margins of a text. It "digs deeper" into learning retention than highlighting alone. 4. Offer a tool such as course readers (Heiner, Banet, & Wieman, 2014; Lieu, Wong, Asefirad, & Shaffer, 2017) Course readers provide students with a detailed outline of what they should accomplish during their reading. Prompts about specific passages require students to articulate their interpretation of the material. Although readers require a significant time investment on the part of the instructor, but have been shown to promote student mastery of the material (see Lieu et al., 2017). Instructors design a 3-5 page document that looks similar to an open-book quiz, while directing students to particular passages. Examples of such prompts include: Explain the difference between concepts x and y. Is Z true? Why or why not? Define [term/concept] in your own words. What are the differences and similarities between approach X and approach Y? Draw a diagram of [concept]. Drawing from this material, what is the process that you would use to... Lieu and colleagues (2017) provide extensive examples of their use of this technique in the appendices to their article in CBE – Life Sciences Education. Sources Bean, J. C. (2001). Engaging ideas: The professor's guide to integrating writing, critical thinking, and active learning in the classroom. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. Heiner, C. E., Banet, A. I., & Wieman, C. (2014). Preparing students for class: How to get 80% of students reading the textbook before class. American Journal of Physics, 82(10), 989-996. Hora, M. T., & Oleson, A. K. (2017). Examining study habits in undergraduate STEM courses from a situative perspective. International Journal of STEM Education, 4(1), 1-19. Lang, J. (2016). Small teaching: Everyday lessons from the science of learning. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. Wohl, H., & Fine, G. A. (2017). The active skim: Efficient reading as a moral challenge in graduate education. Teaching Sociology, 45(3), 220-227. Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Classroom Practices Learning Contexts Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Inclusive Teaching The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top