Close Alert Message Alert Carolina! Normal The University is currently operating under normal conditionsLast updated at 6:00pmFriday, May 27th, 2022Skip to Main Content Top Level Navigation Discover Navigate Navigate About the UniversityDisplay Sub Menu for About the University About the University Alumni By the numbers Branding and Identity GuidelinesOpens in new site Carolina NextOpens in new site For the MediaOpens in new site Frequently Asked Questions History and Traditions Leadership Mission & Values Support the University UNC Social Media UNC SystemOpens in new site News and UpdatesDisplay Sub Menu for News and Updates News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Working at CarolinaOpens in new site Campaign for CarolinaOpens in new site AcademicsDisplay Sub Menu for Academics Academics Academic Calendar and Registrar Academic Enhancements Continuing Education Opportunities Academic Departments Friday Center for Continuing Education Libraries Online and Distance EducationOpens in new site Programs and Curricula Summer School Admissions and Aid SchoolsDisplay Sub Menu for Schools Schools College of Arts & Sciences Adams School of Dentistry Education Eshelman School of Pharmacy Gillings School of Global Public Health Government Graduate School Information & Library Science Law Kenan-Flagler Business School Hussman School of Journalism and Media Medicine Nursing Social Work Come Visit Us Diversity and Inclusion Research Innovation and Economic Development Arts and Culture GlobalOpens in new site Life at CarolinaDisplay Sub Menu for Life at Carolina Life at Carolina About the Town Campus Recreation Carolina Housing Carolina UnionOpens in new site Community and Public Service Health & Wellness AthleticsDisplay Sub Menu for Athletics Athletics GoHeels.comOpens in new site Campus RecreationOpens in new site IntramuralsOpens in new site Sports ClubsOpens in new site UNC HealthOpens in new site Search The University of North Carolina at Chapel HillHide Main Navigation Menu Featured Diamond Heels claim ACC title Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Search PeopleOpens in new window PlacesOpens in new window Search UNC.edu Around Campus Bleeding Carolina Blue to save lives: Carolina Blood Drive returns The annual blood drive, which will take place June 7 in the Dean E. Smith Center, has impacted thousands of lives over the course of three decades. By Emily Padula, The Well, Tuesday, May 24th, 2022 33rd Annual Carolina Blood Drive held June 8, 2021 at the Dean Smith Center on the campus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. (Jon Gardiner/UNC-Chapel Hill) Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Pinterest Share via Email Print Friendly The annual Carolina Blood Drive returns for its 34th year on Tuesday, June 7, from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the Dean E. Smith Center. The Carolina Blood Drive planning committee, through the Employee Forum, invites faculty, staff, students and residents to sign up and donate. For longtime blood donors like Jerel Bonner, saving lives is literally in his veins. During his eight years as a Carolina employee in the ’90s, Bonner made regular blood donations. By his count, he gave nearly 60 pints. Then he moved to China for 10 years. Following his return from China in 2017, Bonner learned he would have to wait three years before donating again. Instead of waiting, he got back in the game by serving on the board of directors for the American Red Cross Central North Carolina Chapter for two years and by volunteering at the Carolina Blood Drive. Bonner does whatever the blood drive committee assigns him. He promotes the drives to his friends and on websites and is one of the last to leave, staying to help clean up. When his three-year waiting period ended in 2020, Bonner continued volunteering and began donating again. To this day, he gives blood every two months and is a yearly regular at the winter and summer Carolina drives. “It’s a totally different feeling to donate and volunteer for the UNC drives than it is at other locations,” Bonner said. “It just takes a little creativity to make someone smile and (put them) at ease during an important community activity.” Bonner is happy to help however needed whenever that special time of the year comes around. “I always know where I’ll be on the second Tuesday of June and December — at Carolina, saving lives as long as I live in the Triangle,” Bonner said. Since 1989, the Carolina Blood Drive has potentially impacted more than 100,000 lives through donation as one of the largest and longest-standing blood drives in the Carolinas Region of the American Red Cross. Walk-ins are welcome, but appointments are strongly encouraged. You can sign up through American Red Cross online, by phone or via the American Red Cross Blood Donor app. Free parking will be available at the Smith Center, and Chapel Hill Transit buses will be running there as well. Those who donate will receive a commemorative T-shirt and free food, while supplies last. This past December, the Holiday Carolina Blood Drive saw 65 volunteers and 339 donors, including 99 first-time donors, and resulted in 320 units of life-saving blood, impacting up to 960 lives. How it works: The drive will take place in the Dean E. Smith Center on Tuesday, June 7, from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sign up for an appointment on the American Red Cross’ website or by calling 1-800-RED CROSS (1-800-733-2767) and using sponsor code UNC. How to get there: Free parking will be available at the Smith Center, but Chapel Hill Transit buses will also be running. Am I eligible to donate? If you’ve recently donated blood, you can visit the American Red Cross’ website to check when you are eligible to donate again. Donation windows differ depending on whether a whole blood, double red (power) or platelet donation was made. Other important things to know: In alignment with CDC guidelines, the American Red Cross has updated COVID-19 safety protocols. Face masks are no longer required at the blood drive, but Red Cross employees and volunteers will accommodate mask requests when close contact occurs. Donors may choose to wear a mask, and the Red Cross will make masks available to those in attendance. Social distancing will also continue wherever possible. For more information, visit carolinablooddrive.unc.edu. Categories Around Campus Keep Reading Good Bowls pays it forward during the pandemic You May Also Like... Diamond Heels claim ACC title It was the team's first appearance in the title game since winning the title in 2019 and marks the eighth conference tournament win in program history. Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title The top-ranked Tar Heels finished the season 22-0, setting a school record for wins and becoming the first undefeated national champion since 2017. Comeback puts women’s lacrosse in championship game With a 15-14 win over Northwestern, the top-ranked Tar Heels improved to 21-0 on the season and will play for their third NCAA title. Display Previous Slide of Related Articles Carousel Display Next Slide of Related Articles Carousel An unconventional path Dedren Snead '12 is an Innovator-In-Residence at the UNC Shuford Program in Entrepreneurship, but his path to this point in his career has been anything but a linear trajectory. The pivotal point in his journey, he says, was getting a degree from Carolina. A commitment to the Carolina family: Jenny Levy’s leadership Jenny Levy is only the fourth person to both play on and coach a national championship women's lacrosse team. Her overall record as the Tar Heels' head mentor has been exemplary, and on Sunday the team will play for its third national title. Filing flora More than 800,000 rare, extinct and native flora have been preserved by the North Carolina Botanical Garden’s Herbarium, where biodiversity is found in every filing cabinet. Display Previous Slide of Related Articles Carousel Display Next Slide of Related Articles Carousel May 06 – Sep 12 Health Insurance is Mandatory! Campus Health Services320 Emergency Room DriveChapel HillNC27599 | May 31 Carolina Public Humanities – Great Books Reading Group 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Flyleaf Books752 Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.Chapel HillNC27514 | $40 Jun 03 600 HIGHWAYMEN | A Thousand Ways (Part Three): An Assembly 8:00 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. CURRENT ArtSpace + Studio123 W Franklin StChapel Hill27516 | $15 Display Previous Slide of Events Carousel Display Next Slide of Events Carousel Accessibility Alert Carolina Alumni Connect Carolina Campus Map Contact Us Careers Departments A – Z Ethics and Integrity For the Media Libraries People Directory Privacy Statement UNC Student Stores The Well Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest © 2022 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share LinkedIn E-mail