Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal On-Campus Dining Our innovative dining facility focuses on the needs and desires of our residential community. Students can learn cooking techniques from scheduled classes, get their burgers, sandwiches, stir fry or pasta made to order, and invite their professors and friends to dine with them using guest passes. All Student Housing License Agreements include a meal plan. Freshman students living in our Residence Halls can choose between a 5-day or 7-day all-access meal plan, while residents of our Apartments may choose between the all-access plans, or a 100-meals-per-semeter plan. The Gastronome The Gastronome is a unique, all-you-care-to-eat dining facility. It provides the Cal State Fullerton community healthy, nutritious, and well-balanced meals as the hub for an active community. The Gastronome features an extremely diverse menu throughout each day. Almost all items are customizable and prepared to order. Order pizza from the stone hearth oven, delicious ethnic dishes from our international kitchen, burgers hot off the grill, specialty sandwiches and salads and mouthwatering soups, and freshly made breads and deserts from the bakery. HOURS OF OPERATION Please visit The Gastronome's website for updated hours of operation. Residential Meal Plan Options (Fall and Spring Semester only) 7 Day Continuous Dining with $200 Declining Balance per semester 5 Day Continuous Dining with $200 Declining Balance per semester 100 Block with $200 Declining Balance per semester (Apartment Residents Only) The 7 Day Continuous Dining plan provides unlimited access to The Gastronome seven days each week during regular meal hours. The 5 Day Continuous Dining plan provides unlimited access to The Gastronome Monday through Friday during regular meal hours. The block meal plan provides 100 individual entrances to The Gastronome during a semester. Block meals may be used for any meal at any time during the semester. Issuance of Meal Plans: All residents must select a meal plan. Declining Balance: Declining Balance is allocated at the beginning of each semester and can be used at the Community Market and Late Night cafe. Unused Declining Balance can “roll over” from Fall Semester to Spring Semester but expires at the end of each academic year. Guest Meals: Each meal plan includes 8 Guest Meals per semester. Unused Guest Meals do not “roll over” from Fall Semester to Spring Semester. Holidays and Semester Breaks: The Gastronome will be closed, and Continuous Dining and Block meal plans will not be available during Fall Recess, Winter Recess, or Spring Recess. Limited additional dining options may be available during this time. Community Market The Community Market combines the corner store with the style of a modern market, featuring grab-and-go dining options and all your convenience needs. The Community Market features a wide array of packaged and fresh produces, foods, and household goods with extended weekday and weekend hours. HOURS OF OPERATION Monday - Thursday: 7:30 a.m. - 12:30 a.m. Friday: 7:30 a.m. - 10 p.m. Saturday - Sunday: 11 a.m. - 10 p.m. Late Night Café If you are looking for a late-night pick-me-up while studying or have a midnight sweet tooth, make sure to stop by the Late Night Café. Enjoy an array of pizzas, hot and cold sandwiches, snacks, treats and beverages after The Gastronome closes. HOURS OF OPERATION Monday - Friday: 8 p.m. - 1 a.m. Saturday - Sunday: Closed This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.