Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Public Health About Programs Apply Students Research News & Events Faculty & Staff Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Apply to the School of Public Health Bachelors Masters MHA EMHA MPH MS Biostatistics Doctoral PhD Epi and BiostatsPhD Social and Behavioral Sciences Graduate Certificates Health Care Interpreter Course FAQs Request Information Take Action Apply Now Explore Programs News & Events Contact Us Follow SPH Online Facebooktwitter Home School of Public Health Apply Apply: MHA Apply to MHA Program Thank you for your interest in the Master of Health Administration (MHA) program! We are delighted that you have chosen our award winning, CAHME-accredited program at the University of Memphis. Because GRE testing has been interrupted this Spring due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the School of Public Health is waiving the GRE requirement for the Fall application cycle. If you have taken the GRE, we strongly recommend that you submit these results, as they may be beneficial to the review process. If you are an international applicant, and have not yet taken the IELTS/TOEFL, please contact us so that we can advise you of the next steps. How to Apply Step 1: Apply to the University of Memphis School of Public Health either through HAMPCAS or SOPHAS. Apply through SOPHAS > Step 2: Prepare the following documents to be uploaded in HAMCAS/SOPHAS application: Have all official transcripts sent to HAMPCAS/SOPHAS Self-report GRE scores and have official scores sent to HAMPCAS (school code 8838) or SOPHAS (school code 6980) Statement of Purpose and Objectives (400-500 words) Letters of Recommendation (2). At least one (1) academic reference from a current or former faculty member is required. Letters must be signed and on official letterhead. Curriculum Vitae (resume) Step 3: You do not need to wait for the School of Public Health to accept you to begin the application process to the Graduate School. Apply to UofM Grad School > Application Deadline June 1 The MHA program may, at its discretion, review applications received before and until June 1 of each admissions cycle. Admission to the Memphis MHA program is increasingly competitive each year. Applicants are encouraged to apply early to help assure their application is reviewed in a timely manner. MHA Admissions Criteria Undergraduate GPA from an accredited college or university GRE or GMAT percentiles (verbal, quantitative, and analytical writing); GRE preferred Two (2) letters of recommendation Statement of Purpose (400-500 words) Resume including education and experience Interviews with faculty Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/9/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.