Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Academic Advising Center Main Navigation About Us Show Extended What We Do General Education General Grad Requirements Undeclared Academic Success Liberal Education Major and Minor Exploration Staff Faculty Development Certificate Faculty and Staff Training Videos Navigate Student App AAC Office Location Gordon Hall-123(formerly University Hall), 800 N State College Blvd, Fullerton, California 92831 Academic advising center hours Days Office Hours: Advising Hours: Monday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 3:30 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Tuesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Wednesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Thursday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Friday 8 am — 12 pm 8:30 am —11:30 am Phone : (657) 278-3606 Fax : (657) 278-7146 Contact Academic Advising Center Current Students Show Extended Freshmen Major Exploration Remediation Tutoring Services Undeclared Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop AAT/AST Assist.org GE breadth certification Seniors Graduation Requirements Applying for Graduation Graduation Specialists Mandatory Advising Workshops FAQs Continuing Students Undeclared Undeclared Students Show Extended Major Exploration Titan Major Exploration Program Exploring Majors Appointments Assessing Personal and Career Interests Exploring Careers Declare a Major Prospective Students Show Extended Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop Incomplete TDAs Returning Students Major Advising Re-enrollment Information Incoming First Time Freshman AP Scores and Transcripts Academic Success Show Extended IMPROVING GPA Repeats Grade Forgiveness Balanced Schedule Time Management Academic support resources University Learning Center English Department Writing Center CBE Tutoring Center OCSAMS CASECS Student Technology Services Academic Notice and Disqualification Academic Notice Academic Disqualification Fullerton Finish TitanNet Academic Planner Academic Notice and Disqualification Requirements Major Exploration GPA Calculator AAC Virtual Printable FERPA Release Form Repeats Grade Forgiveness Balanced Schedule Time Management Maintaining Balance Adjusting to College What is considered a transition or a transitional time? A transition can be generally defined as a period of time in which an aspect of your life changes in a way that requires adjustment and coping. The college experience is filled with transitional times, some of which can be exciting and some of which can be stressful and challenging. Some examples of transitions experienced by college students are: The various stages of the college experience (adjust from high school to college, from lower classman to upper classman, and even declaring a major) Living on your own for the first time Starting a new job/career Beginning or ending a significant relationship What can you expect while you are going through a transition? While every person will experience a transition differently, it is generally common for someone to experience feelings of: stress, excitement, anticipation, anxiety, concern, tension, pressure, fear, confusion, and sadness for example. There is no “normal” way to experience a period of transition; whatever you are feeling is unique to your circumstances and is to be expected in times of transition. Some tips for managing transition: Take care of yourself-don't neglect your basic needs and your self care behaviors. Eat regularly; try for healthy meals and avoid stress eating. Sleep well; allow your body the time to recharge. Be patient with yourself as you learn and adjust to the changes occurring around you. Learn to ask for help This site is maintained by Academic Advising Center. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact zz-pasharma@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.