Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Maguire Center Events Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Student Engagement Student Engagement The Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Teaching and Research Teaching and Research Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grant Program Resources Resources COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Newsroom Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog About Us About Us Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Give ☰ Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Resources Doing Our Part: The Maguire Center Responds to COVID-19 Doing Our Part: The Maguire Center Responds to COVID-19 According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), a key element to reducing the risk of spreading the disease caused by the novel coronavirus known as COVID-19 is to practice social distancing. Out of a desire to protect our staff, colleagues, and local community, the Maguire Ethics Center followed the reduced operations guidelines as outlined by SMU, closing physical offices on March 23 and has reopened as of June 1. Regrettably, certain programs, events and functions will be postponed until a later date and are subject to constant review and discretion. We will continue to monitor the situation and adjust our office operations as necessary going forward and, as always, follow the guidance of SMU administration as well as local and federal guidelines. Please be assured that, in addition to being present in our campus office, the Maguire Center will still be available by email and teleconferencing and is committed to responding to inquiries in a timely manner during this unprecedented time in our society. Please do not hesitate to contact us at maguire_ethics@smu.edu should you require assistance during this time. For updates on SMU's operations in response to COVID-19, please visit the SMU COVID-19 Update Blog. Read Now Hospital Guidelines will Ensure Coronavirus Patients are Treated Fairly, but Poverty Puts People at Greater Risk Richie Butler | April 3, 2020 Faith Leaders Can Help Prevent Health Care Rationing by Canceling In-Person Gatherings Nancy Kasten | April 3, 2020 N. Texas Doctors Developed Guidelines to Determine What to Do; Hospitals are Overwhelmed Robert Fine, Mark Casanova and John Carlo | April 3, 2020 The Maguire Ethics Center Blog Visit the Ethics Center blog for frequent new content from our student staffer and blogger Rylee Bailey on life as a student during COVID-19. Resources Doing Our Part: The Maguire Center Responds to COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share