× Please sign in You need to log in to use the bookmarking feature. Sign In Harvard Business School Sign in to Baker Library Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Search Find Services Ask Browse Databases Collections & Archives Guides Exhibits Find Books, Articles & More More Places HOLLIS Catalog Harvard Library Working Knowledge Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program See all... Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Staff Visiting Researchers Ask Us Ask a Question Fast Answers Policies Staff Directory How Do I... Request HBS Cases Plan A Visit Manage My Data Get Teaching Support Baker Library Databases Ask Us Special Collections Fast Answers All Services Hours Plan Your Visit Exhibits Hollis Working Knowledge HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Search Search Search Plan Your Visit On This Page Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Directions Contact Hours Access Policies Library Spaces About The Library Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Baker Library is committed to diversity and inclusion in its collections, workplace, services, and digital and physical spaces. We align with Harvard Business School and Harvard Library in advancing racial equity within our community. Directions Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Directions to HBS Parking on campus is limited; when available, a day permit for the Harvard Business School Visitor Parking Lot can be purchased at the guard booth on the day of your visit. The HBS campus is a short walk from the Harvard Square train station and two bus lines, the 66 and 86, stop by HBS. See the MBTA website for more information on public transportation options. Contact Curriculum & Learning Services Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Special Collections Phone: 1.617.495.6411 Email: specialcollectionsref@hbs.edu To view the Baker Library staff list, use the Harvard Library Staff Directory link below. GO TO DIRECTORY Hours Baker Library hours differ by department and may change based on the academic calendar. Before visiting, please check Library Hours to ensure your visit is successful. Library Hours Access Policies Contemporary Collections Policies Baker Library Contemporary Collections serves the Harvard Business School community, as well as Harvard University, alumni and visiting researchers. Some visitors may be required to purchase access. Special Collections Policies Baker Library Special Collections are available to all users free of charge. The de Gaspé Beaubien reading room is open by appointment Monday through Friday. We encourage users to reach out to Special Collections to learn more about our collections and services. Contemporary Collections Policies Special Collections Policies Library Spaces Stamps Reading Room The Stamps Reading Room on the third floor of Baker Library provides shared tables, individual study carrels, comfortable seating, and public computers. The Reading Room also houses our service desk, where we provide both circulation and research services. Stamps Reading Room Annex This collaborative work space is located on the 3rd floor, adjacent to the Stamps Reading Room. The space features several amenities for patrons including movable tables and chairs, whiteboards, and a digital display that can accommodate multiple laptops simultaneously, as well as a charging station, copier, and scanner. Stacks (Contemporary Collection) The majority of Baker's circulating collection, as well as our serials and microformat materials, are located on the Stacks level. Accessible only from the elevator in the within the Stamps Reading Room Annex, the stacks are the quietest study space within the library and provide both team space and individual study carrels. Financial Database Room The Financial Databases room is located in the Stamps Reading Room on the third floor of Baker Library. Four dedicated workstations host several specialized financial databases that Harvard faculty, students, and staff can use for academic research. For more information, review the More Information pages for Databases. De Gaspé Beaubien Reading Room Special Collections materials are made available to researchers in the de Gaspé Beaubien Reading Room on the first floor of the Baker Library | Bloomberg Center. MBA students are also welcome to use the room as a quiet study space. The Beaubien Reading Room is able to offer research and study space for up to 20 people. Baker Library Exchange Located inside the South entrance to the Baker Library | Bloomberg Center on the ground floor, the Exchange features newspapers, comfortable seating for patrons, computer workstations, and two Bloomberg terminals for use by HBS students, faculty, and staff. (Authorized Baker visitors may use the Bloomberg terminals in the Stamps Reading Room.) Stamps Reading Room Map Stacks Map About the Library Baker Library advances the mission of the Harvard Business School by providing distinctive information services, resources and expertise so that our community excels. Baker Library holds the preeminent collection of contemporary and historic business information in the world. A team of close to 100 librarians, archivists, economists, statisticians, journalists, and information management professionals offer a range of custom research, teaching and learning services and products for Harvard Business School’s diverse community as well as meeting the research needs of the Harvard University community and scholars from around the globe. Baker Library is at the vanguard of academic library innovation, experimenting with linked data, semantic data modeling, and digital product development to disseminate faculty research thus creating an information ecosystem in which libraries are integral partners with 21st century scholars. History of Baker Library Harvard Business School was established in March 1908 as the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration. A $1,000 gift provided the initial funds to acquire a small library collection, housed in an alcove of Gore Hall (the predecessor to Widener Library). The library was designated as a "special library" in 1911 and Charles C. Eaton was appointed the first full-time librarian in 1919. The present campus on Soldiers Field in Boston was dedicated in 1927, with Baker Library named for George F. Baker, who donated $5 million dollars to build the entire HBS campus. Baker Library underwent a major renovation and expansion from 2003-2005. Designed by Robert A.M. Stern Architects and built by Skanska USA, the updated Baker Library includes a restored historic lobby and third-floor Stamps Reading Room; the Exchange, a physical and virtual space that offers real-time business and financial information tools; the de Gaspé Beaubien Reading Room which houses the Special Collections Department; and a central stair hall that introduces natural light into the center of the building, with faculty and staff offices on each floor. Back to top Today's HoursAll Hours Connect with Baker Map & Contacts Know Before You Go Library Spaces Staff Directory About the Library B4B Product Catalog Books@Baker Annual Reports Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College.