Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries COVID-19 Frequently Asked Questions You are here Home Life at Temple Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library The rapidly changing nature of the COVID-19 pandemic had led to many questions. For guidance about masking on campus and what to do if you are exposed to or test positive for COVID-19, refer to the graphics below. What types of masks can I wear on campus? Masking is a critical public health tool for preventing spread of COVID-19. Temple students and employees can use this graphic for guidance on the three options for how to mask while on campus. What do I do if I am exposed to or test positive for COVID-19? Download the guide below to help inform your decision-making when you are exposed to or test positive for COVID-19. Together, we can keep our campus community safe and healthy. You can also find answers to some of the most frequently asked questions about the pandemic and Temple University’s response. Campus Operations What are the current mask guidelines at Temple? Masks are optional in most campus spaces, including in common areas, dining halls, meeting rooms, nonclinical office spaces and residence halls. Masking will continue to be required in classrooms, healthcare facilities labs, shuttles, studios or other locations where in-person classes (including examinations) are taking place. Following updated guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Temple’s mask guidelines have changed. Cloth masks alone are no longer adequate for protecting yourself and others. The CDC recommends that you wear the most protective mask you can that fits well (completely covers your nose and mouth) and that you will wear consistently. Temple students and employees now have three options for how to mask while on campus. Good: a surgical mask with multiple layers of nonwoven material Better: a surgical mask with a cloth mask over it Best: a KN95 mask How can I keep my KN95 mask clean? While they are not washable, with proper care your KN95 masks should be reusable for an extended period of time. You can use your mask as long as breathing remains comfortable. To keep your mask clean between uses, store it in a paper bag. When it becomes soiled, it should be disposed of in the normal trash. You should replace your KN95 when it becomes soiled. no longer covers the nose and mouth. has stretched out or damaged ties or straps. cannot stay on the face. has holes or tears in the fabric. Ensuring your mask fits properly initially means you won’t have to adjust it later. The following are tips on how to put on and take off your KN95 mask. Wash your hands. Place the mask over your face, with the bottom below your chin and the nosepiece up. Place the earbands over your ears. Using both hands, mold the metal nose clip to fit snugly against the nose and face, and under the eyes. Adjust fit as necessary to reduce air leakage around the mask. Handle mask by the ear loops or straps when removing. What are the university’s guidelines for in-person classes? The university will follow applicable guidance from the city of Philadelphia and will keep the university members informed as changes occur. At this time, the university intends to continue to require the following. All employees and students must be fully vaccinated or have an approved religious or medical exemption. Those with approved medical or religious exemptions must submit to weekly testing. Masking is required in classrooms, healthcare facilities labs, shuttles, studios or other locations where in-person classes (including examinations) are taking place. Appropriate hand hygiene should continue to be practiced. Monitor your own health and stay at home if you are ill. Contact Student Health Services (215-204-7500) or Employee Health Services (215-204-2679) if you have been exposed to COVID-19 and follow instructions. Where can I get tested for COVID-19? Temple Student and Employee Health have several testing options. Learn more about testing on campus. Are Campus Recreation facilities open during the spring semester? View the Campus Recreation summer hours of operation. When is the Howard Gittis Student Center open? View the Howard Gittis Student Center hours of operation. Vaccines and Boosters Is the university requiring boosters for all students, faculty and staff? Temple strongly urges all those that are eligible receive a booster shot. Boosters are the best way to prevent yourself from becoming infected or becoming seriously ill if you are infected. Individuals ages 12 and older can get a booster shot. See the CDC website for more information about booster shots. Can I receive a booster on campus? If it has been six months or more since your last dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, you are eligible for a booster shot. Boosters will be made available to eligible students, faculty and staff based on availability of the vaccine. Booster shots are also readily available in pharmacies, doctors’ offices and through public health organizations. Schedule an appointment through Health Services. Temple Health System is also offering COVID-19 boosters. Learn more about getting vaccinated at Temple. How can Temple students, faculty and staff get vaccinated on campus? The Temple community can take the following steps to get fully vaccinated and inform the university that they’ve done so. Learn more about vaccines at Temple. Vaccines are widely available throughout the city, the region and the country, and they are safe, effective and free. Everyone is strongly urged to get a vaccine. Students, faculty and staff can call 215-204-7500 to schedule an appointment to receive the vaccine at Student Health Services, 1700 N. Broad St., 4th floor. If it has been six months or more since your last dose of the Pfizer or Moderna COVID-19 vaccine or two months since you received the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine, you are eligible for a booster shot. Uploading your vaccine and booster information to Temple’s health portal is a critical step in providing information needed to effectively plan for in-person operations. If you do not upload your vaccine information, you will be considered unvaccinated by the university. Student Information Are masks required in residence hall rooms? Masks are optional in most campus spaces, including residence halls. Refer to the temple.edu/coronavirus main page for the most updated masking guidance. Will Campus Recreation facilities be open? Campus Recreation facilities are scheduled to be open during this virtual period, but there may be service modifications in order to ensure safe usage of the facilities. Any updates will be posted to the Campus Recreation website and temple.edu/coronavirus at the start of the semester. Employee Information Who can help me make plans for delivering my class virtually? The Center for the Advancement of Teaching is available to advise faculty on options for delivering classes virtually. Book an appointment for assistance. Is domestic and/or international travel permitted? Domestic travel is subjected to local mandates, if applicable. There are no restrictions at present. International travel must be approved in advance. See guidance for traveling during COVID-19. Go back to Life at TempleMore in COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Return Scenario Planning University Communication International Campuses and Programs Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.