Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Marketing and Communications Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University Marketing and Communications Meet the Team Departments Marketing Brand Management, Licensing & Trademarks Creative Services Web Marketing & User Experience Communication Media Relations Digital Production Social Media Guidelines & Policies Requests Resources Publications UH Home University Marketing and Communications Guidelines & Policies Web Accessibility Standards Guidelines & Policies Bulk Email Policies & Procedure Brand Guidelines Brand Management, Licensing & Trademarks Policies Editorial Style Guide Email Signature Guidelines Filming at UH Inclusive Language Guide Mobile App Guidelines News Media Policy Paid Online Media Photo Release Guidelines Push Notifications Guidelines Social Media Policy Social Media Profile Guidelines Statements UH Major Awards Announcement Guidelines Web Accessibility Standards Summary of Texas Guidelines Accessibility Resources Web Best Practices Web Style Guidelines UH Web Accessibility Standards All University web pages should be accessible in some form to those with disabilities, be they technological barriers (slow modems) or physical barriers (users with impaired vision). This is not just State law, but good sense: the more users who can access your information the better. This is not a legal document. The information here is based on satisfying the State of Texas Development Tools and Resources, in particular, Developing Accessible Web Content. To satisfy the legal requirements, UH website pages should make every effort to adhere to the WC3 Web Content Accessibility Guidelines. The University guidelines below are derived from the W3C guidelines and provide direct links to the W3C website. No matter what bells, whistles, or applets you wish to decorate your hypertext information with, ensure that no one is barred from i) navigating through your pages and ii) accessing the information on those pages. This is the same spirit as the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), which presently ensures no one is barred from accessing any physical University property (ie., access ramps, braille signs, etc.). Note this isn't a dictate that all users experience your pages equally, only that all users can access them equally. For example, blind users surf the web using "readers" which speak the contents of a page, including the hyperlinks used for navigation. This does not mean you cannot embed pictures on pages, just that these pictures should also have text-equivalents embedded, such as "alt" tags on images or image maps. UH Accessibility Coordinators In General Hyperlinks Images and Image Maps Tables Frames Applets and Scripts Multimedia Forms And if All Else Fails... For Further Information UH Accessibility Coordinators: For Students: Kyle Mutz – Director, kjmutz@central.uh.edu Director, Student Accessibility Center For Staff & Faculty: Tammy Gardiner – Executive Director, tmgardiner@uh.edu Executive Director, Digital Accessibility In General 1.1 Provide a text equivalent for every non-text element (e.g., via "alt", "longdesc", or in element content). This includes: images, graphical representations of text (including symbols), image map regions, animations (e.g., animated GIFs), applets and programmatic objects, ascii art, frames, scripts, images used as list bullets, spacers, graphical buttons, sounds (played with or without user interaction), stand-alone audio files, audio tracks of video, and video. 2.1 Ensure that all information conveyed with color is also available without color, for example from context or markup. 4.1 Clearly identify changes in the natural language of a document's text and any text equivalents (e.g., captions). 6.1 Organize documents so they may be read without style sheets. For example, when an HTML document is rendered without associated style sheets, it must still be possible to read the document. 6.2 Ensure that equivalents for dynamic content are updated when the dynamic content changes. 7.1 Until user agents allow users to control flickering, avoid causing the screen to flicker. 14.1 Use the clearest and simplest language appropriate for a site's content. Hyperlinks Make certain every hyperlink on your page can be accessed with keyboard commands alone. For example, hitting the TAB-key on your keyboard should advance to every link on a page, whether the link is textual or defined on an image map or applet. 13.1 Clearly identify the target of each link. Link text should be meaningful enough to make sense when read out of context -- either on its own or as part of a sequence of links. Link text should also be terse. For example, in HTML, write "Information about version 4.3" instead of "click here". In addition to clear link text, content developers may further clarify the target of a link with an informative link title (e.g., in HTML, the "title" attribute). Images and Image Maps 1.2 Provide redundant text links for each active region of a server-side image map. 9.1 Provide client-side image maps instead of server-side image maps except where the regions cannot be defined with an available geometric shape. Tables 5.1 For data tables, identify row and column headers. 5.2 For data tables that have two or more logical levels of row or column headers, use markup to associate data cells and header cells. Frames 12.1 Title each frame to facilitate frame identification and navigation. 12.2 Describe the purpose of frames and how frames relate to each other if it is not obvious by frame titles alone. Applets and Scripts 6.3 Ensure that pages are usable when scripts, applets, or other programmatic objects are turned off or not supported. If this is not possible, provide equivalent information on an alternative accessible page. Multimedia 1.3 Until user agents can automatically read aloud the text equivalent of a visual track, provide an auditory description of the important information of the visual track of a multimedia presentation. 1.4 For any time-based multimedia presentation (e.g., a movie or animation), synchronize equivalent alternatives (e.g., captions or auditory descriptions of the visual track) with the presentation. Forms 12.4 Associate labels explicitly with their controls. 10.2 Until user agents support explicit associations between labels and form controls, for all form controls with implicitly associated labels, ensure that the label is properly positioned. And If All Else Fails... 11.4 If, after best efforts, you cannot create an accessible page, provide a link to an alternative page that uses W3C technologies, is accessible, has equivalent information (or functionality), and is updated as often as the inaccessible (original) page. For Further Information A summary of the Texas guidelines. Addition web resources for making web pages accessible. Transform Gracefully University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies