Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Student Accessibility Services Graduate Student FAQ Resources for Graduate Students Student Accessibility Services Resources for Graduate Students Resources at Brown Please be sure to visit the Graduate School resource page for more information. Advising and Mentoring Resources for Students Mentoring is an active process by which faculty establish and foster relationships with graduate students by offering guidance, support, and encouragement aimed at developing their competence and character. An advisor helps to evaluate students’ skills, talents, and performance as well as assists in the selection of coursework and other academic and training programs that will further their academic and professional development. For more information, please visit the Advising and Mentoring Resources for Students webpage. Campus Access Advisory Committee (CAAC) A committee made up of administrators, faculty, and students that is charged to review general issues of disability and make recommendations for the continuing education and awareness regarding these issues in the Brown community. Contact SAS at 401-863-9588 or by email at [email protected] if you concerns or questions you want posed to the CAAC. CareerLAB CareerLAB supports Brown graduate students - both masters' and doctoral candidates - along every step of their graduate school careers. Services complement the essential advice you will receive from your faculty advisors. To make an appointment with a Career Advisor, please use Brown Handshake or email [email protected]. For questions related to services and programs for graduate students, please email [email protected] Provides services to both graduate and undergraduate students to assist in their career success through "early student involvement with career services, applied learning and internships, exploration and research" as well as "connections with alumni and employers." The office conducts workshops, programs and career events. It also provides counseling, career resources, information on internships, research opportunities, employment, as well as tools for self-assessment, career exploration and winning strategies for getting hired. Chemical Dependency/Recovery Confidential support is available for students who are in recovery from substance use disorders or who are concerned about their drinking or drug use. Please contact Student Accessibility Services, for more information. 401-863-9588 Community Outreach (Swearer Center) An umbrella organization for volunteer activities in the Rhode Island community. It provides opportunities for working with people with disabilities. For more information, call 863-3676. Computer Education It provides free computer training to Brown University students, staff, and faculty. The duration of most classes is 90 minutes and take place from Tuesday through Thursday. Located in the CIS building. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Offers crisis support and short-term counseling to students who are in psychological distress. Also offers support groups, Mental Health Awareness Series, and a lending library. Located in Page-Robinson Hall, Rm 516. For more information, call 401-863-3476. Graduate Student Deans Graduate School Deans can be resources for academic concerns, advocacy, and support, in addition to program Directors of Graduate Study, Chairs, and Advisors. For contact information, please visit the Deans & Staff page. Health Education B'Well Health Promotion: Facilitates interactive workshops, offers individual counseling and referrals and coordinates special events on a wide range of health topics. Located on the 3rd floor of Health Services on 13 Brown Street. For more information, call 401-863-2794 Health Services Open to all undergraduate, graduate and medical students. Must have paid the mandatory health fee. Located on 13 Brown Street. For more information, call 863-3953. LGBTQ Resource Center The LGBTQ Center, established at Brown in 2004, provides a comprehensive range of education/training, cultural, social and educational programming, support services and advocacy services to the entire Brown Community. The Center works to create and maintain an open, safe, and inclusive environment for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and questioning students, faculty, and staff, their families and friends, and the campus community at large. For more information visit room 321 in the Stephen Robert Campus Center or call 401-863-3062 Libraries Brown University has seven libraries providing information and research sources to the Brown community including the John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Library, the Sciences Library, the Orwig Music Library, the Art Slide Library, the John Hay Library, the Demography Library, and the Annmary Brown Memorial Library, as well as an off-site collections storage and an affiliated library, the John Carter Brown Library. Additional library resource information for Grad Students, Med Students, and Postdocs. Office of Institutional Equity & Diversity (OIED) The Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) serves as a critical leader, resource, and support in sponsoring programs and events related to diversity and inclusion at Brown University. OIED helps lead inclusion efforts across campus through accountability, compliance, fostering academic diversity and promoting diversity and inclusion. For more information, you may email Institut[email protected] or call 401-863-2216. Sarah Doyle Women's Center The Sarah Doyle Women’s Center (SDWC) seeks to provide a comfortable, yet challenging place for students, faculty, and staff to examine the multitude of issues around gender. The SDWC offers programs and services for all members of the Brown community and is a site for research into an exploration of gender issues that extend into and beyond the classroom. The Center has meeting space and houses an art gallery, darkroom, library, resource center, and lounge area. For more information, call 401-863-3402. Swearer Center for Public Service The Center is founded on the belief that "service is a central concern of a liberal education." It sponsors community-based programs and partnerships, provides tools, resources, and advice for doing community service work, as well as information on listings of related courses, funding resources and career opportunities for the socially conscious. For more information, call 401-463-2338. University Ombudsperson The University Ombudsperson, provides graduate students, medical students, postdocs, faculty, and staff an informal, off the record place to bring any issues related to life at Brown. Please call (401)863-6145 or email [email protected]. For more information: https://brown.edu/ombudsperson. Writing Center The center provides writing assistance for all members of the Brown community. Staffed by graduate students from a variety of disciplines who are experienced in writing and teaching and undergo ongoing training. Associates are prepared to review a variety of types of writing and to discuss your specific writing concerns. Individual conferences are available, as well as workshop sessions. Walk-in hours are available, but appointments in advance are preferable. For more information, please call 401-863-3524. Home Getting Around Campus Registration Accommodations & Services Academic Accommodation Letter Notifications Graduate Student FAQ Faculty Report an Accessibility or Accommodation Concern Access or Accommodation Concerns Appeals Accessibility/Awareness Resources Emergency Planning Event Accessibility Financial Assistance for Evaluations or Coaching Library SAS Rooms Scheduling Support Groups & Events School of Professional Studies (SPS) Programs Print this Page Share this Page Student Accessibility Services Brown University Box Box P Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-9588 Fax 401-863-1444 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Web Links WebServices BrownSites Demo BrownSites Documentation Special Links Your Custom Links PAUR Media Relations Web Style Guide