Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Nursing DNP You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Nursing DNP Apply Request More Info Nursing DNP Accreditation Admissions Clinical Education Curriculum Departmental Research Scholarships & Financial Aid Doctor of Nursing Practice The Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) program in Temple’s College of Public Health is for nurses seeking the highest degree in nursing practice. Graduates of Temple’s DNP program become leaders who advance health equity and quality of life at individual, community and population levels. The DNP program at Temple offers two options for admission: one for students with a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree, and one for students with a master’s degree in nursing. For post-BSN students, the focus is on coursework that expands their knowledge base in areas of pharmacotherapeutics, pathophysiology and health assessment. Post-master’s students take advanced coursework that builds on their prior education, professional roles, and practice-oriented experiences. As a post-master’s student, you will also gain new knowledge and skills that position you as a leader in advancing nursing practice that is evidence-based and grounded in collaboration and partnership. Located in the diverse community of North Philadelphia, the Department of Nursing is committed to underserved populations. Many of our faculty are actively engaged in practice, which provides a real-time connection to current trends in healthcare. Faculty also have a high rate of professional participation, including leadership roles on committees and in professional organizations with local, state, national and international reach. The department is building its research footprint, with faculty expertise in the areas of obesity, child and family health, and health disparity. What sets apart our DNP program? Nursing education within a context of population health: The DNP program resides within Temple’s College of Public Health, which includes healthcare and health services disciplines such as physical therapy and health information management, as well as traditional public health fields that include epidemiology and biostatistics. One of the few post-baccalaureate DNP programs in the region: Students with a BSN are eligible for admission to the DNP program. Designed for working professionals: Classes take place on-site at Temple’s Health Sciences Center and are offered one day a week to facilitate long-term schedule planning. Many courses offer a mix of online and in-person options to accommodate working professionals. Preparation for a career in nursing education: Students will earn a Teaching in Higher Education certificate, preparing graduates for positions in an educational setting. An emphasis on nursing scholarship: Faculty members and organization mentors work closely with students to develop a scholarly project that begins in the first year of the program and culminates in the final year with project implementation and dissemination. Program Format The DNP Program has two options: Post-Baccalaureate (Post-BSN) and Post-Master’s. Both options are designed for either part- or full-time study. Post-BSN Option The Post-BSN option prepares graduates as primary care providers in one of two practice-oriented specialties (also called clinical tracks). Temple’s was one of the first post-baccalaureate programs established in the Philadelphia region. The Post-BSN option is a 68-credit curriculum. Students complete 1,000 clinical hours including DNP project practicum hours, and clinical practice sites are selected to maximize learning. The program offers three-year full-time or four-year part-time study options. Clinical Tracks Post-BSN students may choose one of two practice-oriented specialties (also called clinical tracks). Adult-Gerontology Primary Care The Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Clinical Track prepares graduates to provide primary care services across the continuum of care, from wellness to illness. This includes preventive, chronic and acute care to the entire adult-gerontology age spectrum, which includes adolescents, young adults and older adults. This track provides specialized training in primary care of elderly adults. View the DNP program curriculum, including the AGPC clinical track. View Concentration Details Family-Individual Across the Lifespan The Family-Individual Across the Lifespan Clinical Track prepares graduates to provide primary care services for individuals and families (including children), focusing on prevention and the assessment, diagnosis and treatment of chronic illness and non-life-threatening acute conditions. (FIAL nurse practitioners are also known as family nurse practitioners.) This track includes specialized training in primary care of children and youth. View the DNP program curriculum, including the FIAL clinical track. View Concentration Details Post-Master’s Option The Post-Master’s Option prepares graduates for practice leadership in a variety of healthcare settings. The option is tailored to meet the needs of those who have earned a master’s degree in nursing. This option utilizes an evidence-based approach to prepare graduates for their roles in healthcare systems that are increasingly complex and for new models of care delivery. The Post-Master’s Option is a 37-credit curriculum. Graduate students complete 500 clinical hours, which includes development and implementation of a final scholarly project that occurs over numerous semesters. The program offers five-semester, full-time or eight-semester, part-time study options. View the DNP program curriculum, including the Post-Master’s track. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. DNP students can seek academic and program support from their faculty advisors and from the program director. Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Nursing Practice offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-NURS-DNP Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Nursing DNP Accreditation Admissions Clinical Education Curriculum Departmental Research Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info