Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety Contact Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Community Relations & Crime Prevention Home BC Police Department Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Jeffrey S. Postell, Lieutenant Oversees the Community Policing, Community Relations and Crime Prevention Initiatives 617-552-4467 Contact Lt. Postell The Boston College Police Department (BCPD) is dedicated to the policing philosophy of Community Oriented Policing (COP). The Office of Community-Oriented Policing Services defines COP as a "policing philosophy that promotes and supports organizational strategies to address the causes and reduce the fear of crime and social disorder through problem-solving tactics and police-community partnerships". COP consists of two basic fundamentals: 1. Community Partnerships 2. Problem Solving BC Police Officers strive to foster positive community contacts leading to effective communication within the university and surrounding communities. This builds and maintains a mutual trust that is vital in the development of community partnerships. With this broadened police perspective, BC Police Officers are enhancing the quality of life for the BC community. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Police Department Maloney Hall 617-552-4444 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College