Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search SMU Ignited Ways to give Scholarships Scholarships Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Our students change the world. As SMU continues to grow alongside its home city of Dallas, so too must our commitment to providing outstanding education to exceptional students from every background. Scholarships provide vital support to SMU’s students and create life-changing opportunities for thousands of future world changers. Outstanding students inspire outstanding research, discovery and academic innovation at SMU. From classrooms on the Hilltop to boardrooms, courtrooms and operating rooms around the world, donations made to student scholarships have the potential to impact thousands of lives, both current and future. Give Today When you partner with SMU through SMU Ignited, your impact resonates far beyond the Hilltop. Join us at the forefront of this latest Mustang stampede. Give now Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search