Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Office of Student Financial Aid Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Types of Aid Scholarships Scholarship Award Code Request (Staff) Grants Federal Work-Study Loans Loan Resources Calculators Deferment and Forbearance Entrance and Exit Counseling Federal Loan Servicers Federal Student Loan Limits Interest Rates and Origination Fees Loan Consolidation Promissory Notes Repayment Tracking Your Loans Cost Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Students: Fall & Spring Graduate Students: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Years 1, 2, 3: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Year 4: Summer, Fall, & Spring Cost of Attendance Adjustment Veterinary Medicine Cost of Attendance Adjustment 2022-23 Expense Estimator 2021-22 Net Price Calculator FAFSA Completing the FAFSA Verification Tax Filers Non-Tax Filers Verification Document Deadline Policy Verification Forms FAFSA Dependency Independent Appeals FAFSA FSA ID Making Corrections to the FAFSA Special Conditions Student Aid Report (SAR) Student Eligibility Forms Resources About Your Award Letter Calculators Consortium Agreement FAQs Financial Aid Policies Informational Videos Message from the Director Paying Your Bill Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Appealing Financial Aid Suspension SAP for Graduate Students SAP for Undergraduate Students Veterans & Military Students Veterinary Medicine Students Additional Financial Assistance SNAP Benefit Information Withdrawing and Dropping Classes Other Resources Contact Us Site Index Student Employment America Reads/America Counts America Reads/America Counts Contact General Information Information for Educators Information for Prospective Tutors Average Pay Rates Federal Work-Study Work-Study in Workday Student Employee Recognition Student Employee of the Year National Student Employment Week Student Employment Center (SEC) Student Job Board Post a Job Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Student Financial Success FAQs General What is Iowa State University’s Cost of Attendance? Where can I go for financial counseling (Budgeting & Debt Management)? How do I apply for financial aid? What is Iowa State University’s FAFSA school code? Understanding your Financial Aid Award Letter What is Iowa State University’s priority date for filing the FAFSA? What is the status of my financial aid? What happens if I withdraw from all of my classes? I want to move off campus next year. How will my financial aid change? My parents no longer claim me on their tax form. Am I an independent for financial aid? How do I pay my university bill? How do I contact the Office of Student Financial Aid? How do I build a budget to effectively manage my money? How do I apply for financial aid to study abroad? Can Iowa State release personal identifiable information to an authorized third party? Loans What is the difference between a subsidized and unsubsidized loan? What is a Private Loan? Scholarships How do I apply for scholarships at Iowa State University? Where do I find out if I have received scholarships from Iowa State University? Independent Students Am I an independent student? Does my financial status change if I quit my job to come to school? Does my financial aid increase if I have dependent children? I’m worried about paying my university bill on time. Should I tell the Office of Student Financial Aid if I’m receiving Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) funds? What benefits am I eligible for if I am a veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces? Where can I get information on child care resources? What is Iowa State University’s Cost of Attendance? View the Cost of Attendance page. How do I apply for financial aid? Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) for federal funds and apply for scholarships for institutional funds. Understanding your Financial Aid Award Letter View the guide to your financial aid award. What is Iowa State University’s FAFSA school code? ISU’s school code is 001869. What is Iowa State University’s priority date for filing the FAFSA? Iowa State’s priority date for filing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is January 3 for 2022-2023 and December 20 for 2021-22. What is the status of my financial aid? Current students can check the status of their financial aid on AccessPlus by selecting “Aid Status” from the “Financial Aid” menu option. What happens if I withdraw from all of my classes? Learn about Withdrawal Policies. I want to move off campus next year. How will my financial aid change? Your financial aid eligibility does not change if you live off campus. Students who live off campus are not billed by the university for housing. Aid that would pay these charges will be refunded to you to pay your living expenses. My parents no longer claim me on their tax form. Am I independent for financial aid? No. Whether your parents claim you on their taxes has no bearing on your financial aid. Financial aid dependency is determined by section three of the FAFSA. How do I pay my university bill? Learn how to pay your university bill. How do I contact the Office of Student Financial Aid? Please see our contact page for more information. What is the difference between a subsidized and unsubsidized loan? Subsidized loans are awarded based on need. The U.S. Department of Education pays the interest while the student is in school at least half-time. Once the student graduates or leaves the institution, interest will start to accrue on the loan. Unsubsidized loans : The U.S. Department of Education does not pay interest while the student is enrolled. Interest accrues from the date the loan was applied to the university bill until paid in full. What is a Private Loan? Private loans are through private agencies that are willing to lend to students for education purposes. These loans are unsubsidized and allow the student to defer the payments until after they graduate or drop below half-time status. Learn more about Private Lenders . How do I apply for scholarships at Iowa State University? To be assured of receiving consideration for the various academic scholarships administered by the university, freshman applicants should apply for admission nine to twelve months before their planned entry date. Once students are offered admission they are automatically considered for many of the academic merit based scholarships administered by the Office of Admissions and academic colleges. Students are encouraged to apply annually for scholarships under the scholarship webpage. Be sure to complete the OneApp, and review Additional ISU Scholarships and Privately Funded scholarship tabs to be considered for all scholarship opportunities. Also consider application deadlines as they are unique across the different scholarship areas. The university accepts scholarships from outside donors and encourages students to pursue scholarship opportunities through their high school, parents’ employers, or involvement in activities through which scholarships might be available on an annual basis. Where do I find out if I have received scholarships from Iowa State University? If you receive a scholarship from Iowa State University, it will appear on the financial aid offer. The financial aid offer can be found in AccessPlus under the Financial Aid section. Am I an independent student? Learn more about dependency status. Does my financial status change if I quit my job to come to school? Contact the Office of Student Financial Aid to learn more about adjusting your financial information to reflect special circumstances. Does my financial aid increase if I have dependent children? Contact the Office of Student Financial Aid to see if you can increase financial aid to assist with child care costs. I’m worried about paying my university bill on time. Your deadline can be extended with a deferred or monthly payment plan. Learn more about paying your university bill and payment plans though the Accounts Receivable Office. Should I tell the Office of Student Financial Aid if I’m receiving Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) funds? Yes. Be sure to let the Office of Student Financial Aid know after you receive your Financial Aid Award. If you have been offered any grants that would reduce your AFDC benefits, we will change the financial aid offer so your benefits will not be affected. What benefits am I eligible for if I am a veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces? Contact your local Veterans Affairs Office or visit the ISU Veterans Center website for more information on receiving VA Benefits. Where can I go for financial counseling (Budgeting and Debt Management)? Visit the Office of Student Financial Success at 0210 Beardshear Hall for information about budgeting and debt management. Where can I get information on child care resources? Contact the Child Care Coordinator for ISU, who reports through the Human Resources Division. Can Iowa State release personal identifiable information to an authorized third party? As of February 1, 2018, the Office of Student Financial Aid will no longer provide nor confirm personally identifiable student information to an entity outside of Iowa State University. Section 483(a)(3)(E) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA), as amended, specifically restricts the use of FAFSA data, and states the data collected on the FAFSA shall only be used for the application, awarding, and administration of aid awarded under federal student aid programs, state aid, or aid awarded by eligible institutions or such entities as the Department may designate. Guidance from the U.S. Department of Education confirms that even if a student authorizes the release of this information, financial aid administrators are prohibited from doing so. In the event Iowa State students need to provide their individual FAFSA data, Expected Family Contribution (or EFC), federal and/or institutional awards, or other financial aid-related information to an entity outside of Iowa State, students will need to provide this information to outside organizations or agencies themselves. Students can access their Iowa State University Financial Aid Award in AccessPlus which will display their Expected Family Contribution (or EFC) as calculated by the FAFSA, Cost of Attendance (or COA), and current financial aid award information. On the “Financial Aid Award” page in AccessPlus, students should use the “Print PDF” option in order to print and provide to entities requesting financial aid information. Students also have access to their FAFSA Student Aid Report (or SAR) which can provide additional FAFSA information. Office of Student Financial Aid Office of Student Financial Aid 0210 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011-2103 Summer 2022 Office Hours Monday-Friday 7:30 am - 4:00 pm Contact Us financialaid@iastate.edu 515-294-2223 phone 515-294-0851 fax Facebook Twitter Instagram Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995 - Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. FAFSA: ISU School Code 001869 Financial Aid Code of Conduct Consumer Information Disclosure CyCash Loading... Home Types of Aid ▼ Scholarships ▼ Scholarship Award Code Request (Staff) Grants Federal Work-Study Loans Loan Resources ▼ Calculators Deferment and Forbearance Entrance and Exit Counseling Federal Loan Servicers Federal Student Loan Limits Interest Rates and Origination Fees Loan Consolidation Promissory Notes Repayment Tracking Your Loans Cost ▼ Cost of Attendance ▼ Undergraduate Students: Fall & Spring Graduate Students: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Years 1, 2, 3: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Year 4: Summer, Fall, & Spring Cost of Attendance Adjustment Veterinary Medicine Cost of Attendance Adjustment 2022-23 Expense Estimator 2021-22 Net Price Calculator FAFSA ▼ Completing the FAFSA Verification ▼ Tax Filers Non-Tax Filers Verification Document Deadline Policy Verification Forms FAFSA Dependency ▼ Independent Appeals FAFSA FSA ID Making Corrections to the FAFSA Special Conditions Student Aid Report (SAR) Student Eligibility Forms Resources ▼ About Your Award Letter Calculators Consortium Agreement FAQs Financial Aid Policies Informational Videos Message from the Director Paying Your Bill Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) ▼ Appealing Financial Aid Suspension SAP for Graduate Students SAP for Undergraduate Students Veterans & Military Students Veterinary Medicine Students Additional Financial Assistance ▼ SNAP Benefit Information Withdrawing and Dropping Classes Other Resources Contact Us Site Index Student Employment ▼ America Reads/America Counts ▼ America Reads/America Counts Contact General Information Information for Educators Information for Prospective Tutors Average Pay Rates Federal Work-Study ▼ Work-Study in Workday Student Employee Recognition ▼ Student Employee of the Year National Student Employment Week Student Employment Center (SEC) Student Job Board ▼ Post a Job Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Student Financial Success