Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu The University of Memphis Magazine Current Issue Publication Archive Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact UofM Magazine | President's Report Explore the Winter 2022 edition of the University of Memphis Magazine PreviousNext Follow UofM Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home UofM Magazine In This Issue: President's Report | Winter 2022 Dear alumni and friends of the University, It has been a tremendous honor to serve as President of the University of Memphis for the past eight years. As I conclude my final academic year in this role, it is a pleasure to look back on what has been a period of unprecedented development and growth for our institution with the help of innumerable people. We have launched life-changing programs, invested in our community, constructed first-class facilities, reached new heights in athletics and more, while constantly placing students as our top priority. In this latest edition of the University of Memphis President’s Report, we highlight some of the remarkable achievements and milestone moments that brought us to this point. All of this is a credit to the hard work and dedication of our faculty, staff, students, Board of Trustees, local and state governments, supporters and partners. Recently, our research efforts earned us R1 status in the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. This recognition places the UofM in the top tier of research universities nationally and solidifies the University as one of two flagship public institutions in Tennessee. It is a testament to the impressive talent on our campuses and our capacity to compete on a national level and succeed. The University has never been stronger across all metrics, including student and faculty outcomes, our financial position, a growing national presence and national rankings of our academic programs and more. I express my sincere gratitude to everyone who has contributed to this institution’s growth and success and look forward to the University of Memphis continuing its upward climb. We invite you to review our progress in our Winter 2022 President’s Report. Dr. M. David Rudd President, University of Memphis Explore the feature stories > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.