Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Theatre (BFA) – Musical Theatre Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Theatre In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Bachelor of Fine Arts track in Musical Theatre is offered for students who, upon graduation, plan to pursue a specialized performance career on the musical theatre stage. It provides the student with a thorough foundation in theatre complemented by very structured and intensive career preparation in all areas of musical theatre. The Musical Theatre B.F.A. program offers a sequence of courses in acting, movement, voice, dance, music theory, and piano. Classwork is augmented with practical production experiences. Drawing upon a variety of acting, dance, and voice methodologies, the professional musical theatre performance program offers an organic approach to musical theatre performance training. The first two years focus on the fundamentals of music theory, piano, acting, ballet, jazz, and musical theatre voice, with an emphasis on the development of artist's instrument. During the junior and senior years, emphasis is placed on studio training, musical theatre scene study, and musical theatre repertoire. The program culminates with a professional internship where students are able to apply their education in a real world work environment. While most students choose to enter the work force following graduation, the BFA is an excellent degree for students interested in pursuing graduate studies in theatre. Work within the BFA program requires energy and dedication; therefore, other part-time study or outside employment is very challenging. BFA standards are high, both for admission and for continuation in the program. Admission Requirements The departmental faculty evaluates students desiring to become BFA majors via auditions and interviews. This should be completed the academic year prior to attending UCF. For complete information visit the audition site online at https://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/study/#theatreundergrad. All BFA students are accepted on a "Provisional" basis their first year. Faculty will evaluate their work and decide whether or not the student may continue the program at the end of the first year. The Musical Theatre plan of study requires a Fall start for proper course sequencing. Students are not accepted to begin theatre courses in the Spring or Summer semesters. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students must follow the most recent department, internship and school student handbooks which are available on the department website at http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources. Students in this major must earn a "C" (2.0) or better or an "S" in each theatre course and maintain a 3.0 GPA for all courses required in the major and all courses taken in theatre and music; must not receive a negative evaluation in a regularly scheduled program review; and must not exhibit chronic unprofessional behavior. Failure to meet these standards will result in probation and/or dismissal from the program. Refer to the SPA Undergraduate Student Handbook - Theatre (http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources) for details on program standards. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of 60 semester hours of courses taken from the UCF Theatre Department. All BFA Musical Theatre majors are required to audition for all Fall and Spring productions and must accept the roles assigned. Students must be registered for the appropriate Theatre Participation course in the term in which they participate. Students need not take additional hours to satisfy practicum requirements. Once students have completed their production participation requirements, they may register for a "0" credit participation course to meet departmental registration requirements if they choose. Students may use additional participation credits as electives. The department will accept one credit of Theatre Participation coursework for students transferring into the program. Any additional transfer participation credits will count toward electives. Internships are subject to departmental approval and may not be fulfilled through participating on a UCF theatre production. Courses designated Common Program Prerequisites are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Courses designated General Education Program are taken throughout all four years. Co-op cannot be used in this major. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Actor Understudy Ballet Professor Casting Director Dramatic Reader Film Maker Motion Picture Director Music Professor Music Video Director Newscast Director Newscast Producer On-Air Director Pageant Director Radio Producer Television Producer Theater Company Producer Theatre Professor Vaudeville Actor Video Producer Voice Professor Voice-Over Artist Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Theatre (BFA) - Musical Theatre University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Bachelor of Fine Arts track in Musical Theatre is offered for students who, upon graduation, plan to pursue a specialized performance career on the musical theatre stage. It provides the student with a thorough foundation in theatre complemented by very structured and intensive career preparation in all areas of musical theatre. The Musical Theatre B.F.A. program offers a sequence of courses in acting, movement, voice, dance, music theory, and piano. Classwork is augmented with practical production experiences. Drawing upon a variety of acting, dance, and voice methodologies, the professional musical theatre performance program offers an organic approach to musical theatre performance training. The first two years focus on the fundamentals of music theory, piano, acting, ballet, jazz, and musical theatre voice, with an emphasis on the development of artist's instrument. During the junior and senior years, emphasis is placed on studio training, musical theatre scene study, and musical theatre repertoire. The program culminates with a professional internship where students are able to apply their education in a real world work environment. While most students choose to enter the work force following graduation, the BFA is an excellent degree for students interested in pursuing graduate studies in theatre. Work within the BFA program requires energy and dedication; therefore, other part-time study or outside employment is very challenging. BFA standards are high, both for admission and for continuation in the program. Admission Requirements The departmental faculty evaluates students desiring to become BFA majors via auditions and interviews. This should be completed the academic year prior to attending UCF. For complete information visit the audition site online at https://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/study/#theatreundergrad. All BFA students are accepted on a "Provisional" basis their first year. Faculty will evaluate their work and decide whether or not the student may continue the program at the end of the first year. The Musical Theatre plan of study requires a Fall start for proper course sequencing. Students are not accepted to begin theatre courses in the Spring or Summer semesters. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students must follow the most recent department, internship and school student handbooks which are available on the department website at http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources. Students in this major must earn a "C" (2.0) or better or an "S" in each theatre course and maintain a 3.0 GPA for all courses required in the major and all courses taken in theatre and music; must not receive a negative evaluation in a regularly scheduled program review; and must not exhibit chronic unprofessional behavior. Failure to meet these standards will result in probation and/or dismissal from the program. Refer to the SPA Undergraduate Student Handbook - Theatre (http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources) for details on program standards. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of 60 semester hours of courses taken from the UCF Theatre Department. All BFA Musical Theatre majors are required to audition for all Fall and Spring productions and must accept the roles assigned. Students must be registered for the appropriate Theatre Participation course in the term in which they participate. Students need not take additional hours to satisfy practicum requirements. Once students have completed their production participation requirements, they may register for a "0" credit participation course to meet departmental registration requirements if they choose. Students may use additional participation credits as electives. The department will accept one credit of Theatre Participation coursework for students transferring into the program. Any additional transfer participation credits will count toward electives. Internships are subject to departmental approval and may not be fulfilled through participating on a UCF theatre production. Courses designated Common Program Prerequisites are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Courses designated General Education Program are taken throughout all four years. Co-op cannot be used in this major. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 25 Total Credits Earn at least 25 credits from the following: MUT1121 - Music Theory and Musicianship I (4) MUT1122 - Music Theory and Musicianship II (4) MVK1111 - Class Piano I (1) MVK1112 - Class Piano II (1) DAA2200C - Ballet I (2) DAA2201C - Ballet II (2) DAA2570C - Jazz Dance I (2) DAA2571C - Jazz Dance II (2) DAA2520C - Tap Dance I (2) TPA2248C - Makeup Techniques (2) TPP2170C - Acting II - The Actor and Text (3) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 48 Total Credits Earn at least 48 credits from the following: TPP3173C - Acting III - The Actor and Character (3) TPP4140C - Acting IV - The Actor at Play (3) TPP3251C - Musical Theatre Monologue (2) TPP3252C - Musical Theatre Scene Study (2) THE3240 - Evolution of Musical Theatre (3) THE3311 - Theatre History and Dramatic Literature I (3) THE3312 - Theatre History and Dramatic Literature II (3) TPP2742C - Estill for Musical Theatre – Craft (2) TPP3272C - Estill for Musical Theatre – Artistry (2) TPP3743C - Musical Theatre Applied/Studio Voice I (2) TPP3744C - Musical Theatre Applied/Studio Voice II (2) TPP4259C - MT Applied/Studio Voice III (2) TPP4270C - MT Applied/Studio Voice IV (2) TPP4271C - MT Applied/Studio Voice V (2) TPP4923C - MT Applied/Studio Voice VI (2) TPP4940L - Theatre Internship (6) TPP4223C - Theatre Careers in Performance (3) TPP3310C - Directing for Theatre I (3) TPP4193L - Theatre Participation-Performance II (1 - 99) THE4954 - Theatre Exit Critique Grand Total Credits: 73 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida