Facebook Twitter instagram YouTube The RELLIS Campus We Teach Texas EmpowerU Health Science Center Veterans Home Staff Login About Regents Chancellor Offices Academic Affairs Business Affairs Finance General Counsel Governmental Relations Information Technology Internal Audit Marketing And Communications National Laboratories Research Strategic Initiatives Texas Division of Emergency Management SSO Jobs Contact Select Page Texas A&M University-Kingsville Presidential Search A nationwide search has begun for the university’s twenty-first president The Texas A&M University System has launched a nationwide search for the next president of Texas A&M University-Kingville, the southernmost institution of the A&M System and the oldest continuously operating public institution of higher learning in South Texas. The Presidential Search Advisory Committee is established under TAMUS policy by Chancellor John Sharp and is chaired by the Texas A&M System Regents’ Chairman, Tim Leach. TAMUS System Policy 01.03 describes the process by which presidents are selected in the A&M System. The Board of Regents establishes a President Search Advisory Committee with the following responsibilities, as specified in System Policy 01.03. The committee shall determine the candidates’ academic, administrative, and business abilities The committee may interview candidates as a part of its selection process. Interviews should be conducted on the basis that the confidentiality of the process is critical to its ultimate success. The committee shall submit to the board, through the chancellor, a list of no fewer than three candidates in no rank order. The board shall determine which candidates (if any) will be interviewed by the board prior to naming a finalist(s). If none of the names submitted by the committee is satisfactory to the board, the board may either name a new committee or proceed to select a finalist(s) under such other procedures as it may deem proper and appropriate at its sole discretion. The board shall not be limited under any circumstances to only consider candidates previously vetted by the advisory committee. To assist the committee, the A&M System contracts with one or more search firms. The search firm assists the committee in identifying suitable candidates and providing relevant information for the committee’s consideration. In so doing, the search firm hosts open forums, conducts interviews of key leaders, and cultivates interest in the position among qualified candidates. The committee will begin work immediately with a goal to have recommendations to the chancellor by April. Parker Executive Search has been contracted to provide support and cultivate potential applicants and nominees. Presidential Search Advisory Committee Members The search advisory committee is charged with delivering a minimum of three candidates to Chancellor Sharp who will refer one of them to the Texas A&M University System Board of Regents. The committee includes two Texas A&M System regents: Tim Leach, chairman Mike Hernandez III, regent University members of the committee are: Jieming Chen, professor psychology and sociology, president of the Faculty Senate Adriana Garza-Flores, director of marketing and communications Jaya Goswami, associate vice president of academic affairs Micayla Grossman, student body president Alberto Rodriquez, associate professor of history Elda Sanchez, professor and director of the National Natural Toxins Research Center Greta Schuster, professor and chair of Agriculture, Agribusiness and Environmental Sciences Susan Smith, assistant to the executive director, Caesar Kleberg Wildlife Research Institute, president of Staff Council Community members of the committee are: The Honorable Jaime Carrillo, Kleberg County Court at Law, Kingsville Gene Dawson ’82, president, Pape-Dawson Engineers, San Antonio Al Hinojosa ’77, retired vice president, Holt Cat, Freer Maggie Hinojosa ’91, higher education administrator, McAllen Tio Kleberg, philanthropist, Kingsville Balous Miller ’66, chairman, Bill Miller, San Antonio More about Texas A&M University-Kingsville Texas A&M University-Kingsville grew out of the teacher college or “normal school” movement that swept Texas and the nation in the early 1900s. Chartered in 1917 but not opened until 1925 because of America’s entry into World War I, the University is the oldest continuously operating public institution of higher learning in South Texas. Shortly after beginning life as South Texas State Teachers College, its role was expanded to embrace a wider array of programs. As its mission has expanded, its name has changed to reflect its wider scope. Its first name change, to Texas College of Arts and Industries, came in 1929. In 1967 the name changed to Texas A&I University. The University became a member of the Texas A&M University System in 1989 and in 1993 changed its name to Texas A&M University-Kingsville to reflect that membership. Texas A&M-Kingsville is South Texas’ greatest university, offering more academic programs and degrees, providing better learning and living facilities, doing more research, awarding more scholarships, and producing more successful graduates than any other college or university in the region. Texas A&M-Kingsville seeks to provide quality undergraduate and graduate programs for students of all ages through a judicious blend of liberal and career education programs. The emphasis is on providing an intellectually challenging education reflecting high standards of academic performance. Texas A&M-Kingsville is dedicated to serving an ethnically and culturally diverse population. The University is committed to its mission of teaching, research, and service in South Texas for the advancement of knowledge and of regional development. The University is located in historic Kingsville, a friendly, safe city of 25,000 that is the home of the legendary King Ranch. Corpus Christi and its beaches are just 40 miles to the northeast, and the border with Mexico is 120 miles to the south at Brownsville or 119 miles to the west at Laredo. To learn more about the university, visit www.tamuk.edu. About The Texas A&M University System The Texas A&M University System is one of the largest systems of higher education in the nation with a budget of $6.3 billion. The System is a statewide network of 11 universities; a comprehensive health science center; eight state agencies, including the Texas Division of Emergency Management; and the RELLIS Campus. The Texas A&M System educates more than 151,000 students and makes more than 22 million additional educational contacts through service and outreach programs each year. System-wide, research and development expenditures exceeded $1 billion in FY 2019 and helped drive the state’s economy. Latest Tweets Tweets by @tamusystem Latest News 5G Research Testbed at RELLIS Opens for Business of Innovation Regents Add Fort Worth Urban Campus to Capital Plan Texas A&M-Kingsville Alumnus, Robert Vela Jr., Named President A&M-Kingsville Alumnus Named Sole Finalist to Lead Alma Mater Kim McCuistion to lead A&M System’s Downtown Fort Worth Campus Nebraska teen plans return to A&M for grad school after Make-A-Wish visit Useful Links Agenda Items Facts 2020 (PDF) Open Records Staff Directory Brand Guide System News System Policies Library System Strategic Plan Facebook Twitter instagram YouTube Copyright © 2019 Texas A&M University System All rights reserved. 301 Tarrow Street, College Station, TX 77840 | MAP | Phone: (979) 458-7700 | email: tamus-webmaster@tamus.edu State of Texas | Texas Homeland Security | Texas Veterans Portal | Statewide Search | Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | Privacy | Web Accessibility | Campus Carry