Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Living & Resources Admitted Students Guide: Housing at & Near Brown Graduate School Skip to Navigation Admitted Students Guide: Housing at & Near Brown admitted students home Tips on Providence Neighborhoods Walking distance: Look for places that are listed as Wayland Square, Wickenden Street, East Side, Fox Point, and some in the Hope Street area. On a bus line: Federal Hill, The Armory District, Blackstone Boulevard, Oak Hill, Rochambeau, West Side, Downtown. www.ripta.com Farther afield: Pawtucket, Cranston, Elmwood, Pawtuxet Village, East Providence, Johnston, and Seekonk are all within a 10-minute drive. Brown’s campus is bordered on three sides by residential areas with an abundance of apartments and multi-bedroom houses that can be shared. Most Brown graduate students live off campus in the neighborhoods surrounding the University. Please also consider watching our Incoming Student Housing Webinar hosted by the Graduate Student Council (Friday, May 6, 2022). Brown Graduate Student Housing Graduate students are offered a limited number of efficiency, one-bedroom, and two-bedroom apartments located on campus. Detailed descriptions of each type of unit, floor plans, pricing, and photos of apartment interiors and exteriors are available. The typical rental unit includes utilities such as heat, hot water, gas, electricity, and water/sewer fees. Telephone service, cable television service, Internet access, and the wiring for these services are available through private providers. Applications The 2022-2023 Graduate Student Housing Application process will open in March (date TBA). The application will remain open until all available properties have been leased. Lease Period Lease periods are for 12 months. Contracts begin June 1, July 1, or August 1. Please contact Ronni Edmonds at the Auxiliary Housing office for further details. Prices range from $700-$1350/month, and further unit details can be found on the Auxiliary Housing website. Financial Information Graduate students are now required to pay a $500 security deposit (fully refunded with succssful final inspection of the rental). Off-Campus Housing The Auxiliary Housing office has engaged Off Campus Partners to manage a new rental listing website which replaces our prior for-pay site. You can search for privately-owned furnished and unfurnished rooms, apartments, houses, sublets, sabbaticals, and shared accommodations on the Off-Campus Housing website. Other resources include the Providence Journal real estate section, as well as the graduate student listserv (see the Graduate Student Council website for details on the listservs). River House Located in the Jewelry District, adjacent to South Street Landing, River House has available units reserved for Brown University affiliated students, faculty and staff. Information on availability, rates, floor plans and amenities are located on the property website. Guide to Off-Campus Living Be sure to also read the A Guide to Off-Campus Living for tips on picking a neighborhood, what to consider when selecting an apartment, and tips on establishing a tenant/landlord relationship. Topics include: Being part of a neighborhood Finding an apartment Factors to consider when choosing accommodations Establishing tenant-landlord relationships Responsibilities and rights of the landlord/tenant Care and use of premises General provisions Street and fire safety Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Providence & RI Housing Offices & Resources Campus Facilities Family Resources International Students Crisis Support Food and Related Resources for Graduate Students Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants