Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Campus Recreation About Us Membership Fitness Nutrition Wellness Aquatics & Safety Sports Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Sports & Intramurals Sports & Intramurals Intramurals Registration Club Sports Game Rules Take Action Find a Fitness Class Hours of Operation Sign Up for a Membership Contact Us Connect with Us InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Campus Recreation Sports & Intramurals Register for Intramurals/Club Sports Register for Intramural/Club Sports For more information, click here> All intramural participants are required to create an IMLeague account. *IMLeagues offers a live support button in the top right corner of all pages, which you should use if you encounter any difficulties. To Create an IMLeagues Account: 1. Register online 2. Enter your information, using your school e-mail address (youremail@memphis.edu) and submit. 3. You will be sent an activation e-mail. Click the enclosed link to log in and activate your IMLeagues account. 4. You should be automatically linked to your school. If not, you may search schools by clicking the Schools link. To Create a Team This option is for team captains. Captains can invite members to their team by clicking the Invite Members link on the team page. Any invited members must accept the invitation to be joined to your team. If they've already registered on IMLeagues, just search for their name, and invite them. If they haven't yet registered on IMLeagues, you will have to scroll down to the Invite by e-mail address box, and input their e-mail address. To Sign up for Intramural: 1. Log in to your IMLeagues account 2. Click one of the following: "Create/Join Team" button at the top right of your user home page University of Memphis link to go to your school's home page 3. The current sports will be displayed. Click on the sport you wish to join. 4. Choose the league you wish to play in (Men's, Women's, Co-Rec, etc.). 5. Choose the division you'd like to play in (Monday 5 pm, Tuesday 5 pm, etc.). 6. You can join the sport in one of four ways: Accept invite request from team captain Find the team and captain name on division/league page and requesting to join. Go to the captain's player card page, viewing his team, and request to join Join as a free agent You can list yourself as a free agent in as many divisions within a league as you'd like. You will be visible to all members of the site and can request to join teams, or post information about yourself so teams can request to add you to their team Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.