Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Summer Forecast: Dangerous Heat, Fire, and an Active Hurricane Season Climate Summer Forecast: Dangerous Heat, Fire, and an Active Hurricane Season Climate change may be loading the dice for a tough summer. By Marie DeNoia Aronsohn June 28, 2021 Climate change may be loading the dice for a difficult summer, according to researchers at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. Temperatures associated with the heat wave gripping the Pacific Northwestern U.S. have reached unprecedented highs. Triple-digit readings broiled parts of Oregon and Washington over the weekend, a region where the average June temperatures are typically in the 70 degree range. In Portland, Oregon, one county health official put it this way: “This is life-threatening heat, and people need to find someplace cool to spend time during the coming days.” Lamont postdoctoral research scientist Jane Baldwin studies the way climate change is impacting the frequency and severity of heat waves. “No matter how you cut it, heatwaves are getting worse,” she said. “They’re getting longer, they’re getting more frequent, they’re getting more intense — by ‘more intense’ I mean that the peak temperatures are getting higher. These trends have been widely researched and can be clearly linked to temperatures increasing with global warming.” Meanwhile, the western U.S is experiencing its worst drought since 2002, and it has set the stage for a devastating wildfire season. To date, officials have reported to the National Interagency Fire Center more than 30,000 fires, a 10-year high for June. “I think it’s going to be really bad. It’s already bad. We’ve seen an early robust start to the wildfire season in much of the West, including in northern California,” said Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory climate scientist Benjamin Cook. “In Arizona and California, a lot of the reservoirs used for firefighting helicopters are not available. I think it’s going to be a very challenging year.” Smoke from the Flats Fire in Pinyon Pines, CA, on June 13, 2021. Photo: Lisa Cox/USFS Cook says there is a broad trend of larger and worse wildfires, a trend largely driven by climate change. Part of the reason the climate change factor is so strong is the history of fire suppression in the U.S. For decades, the policy for forest and fire management was that all fires were bad, which gave way to efforts to put out fires however small they were. But, without the small, naturally occurring fires burning away underbrush, the forests become overwhelmed with a major fuel surplus. “If it’s hot and it it’s dry you have a lot of potential fuel to burn. That’s where we are,” said Cook. Meanwhile, in the Atlantic… This summer’s extreme conditions aren’t limited to the West Coast. Last week the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration declared that, in the Atlantic, “an above-normal hurricane season is most likely.” Suzana Camargo, the Marie Tharp Research Professor at Lamont, studies extreme weather and climate change. She concurs with NOAA’s assessment that the conditions are ripe for an above-normal hurricane season in the Atlantic basin, but predicts it will not be as active as last year’s record-shattering 30 named storms. Last year, the Atlantic Ocean experienced above average temperatures and the oceanic and climate mode El Niño-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) was on its cold phase, or La Niña, which is conducive to an active Atlantic hurricane season. This year, ENSO is in a neutral phase, but Atlantic waters remain warm. Satellite images of a tropical depression in the Atlantic on June 28, 2021. Source: Cooperative Institute for Meteorological Satellite Studies Camargo says it is well known among climate scientists that global warming is making hurricanes more impactful for a few reasons. Climate change is raising sea levels. Furthermore, climate change is also associated with increases in extreme rainfall events. So, flooding associated with both storm surge and rainfall associated with hurricanes can lead to more pervasive inundations. “Because in a warmer climate, you are able to hold more water vapor in the atmosphere, so that contributes to all types of extreme rainfall,” said Camargo. Hurricane Harvey, the devastating Category 4 hurricane that made landfall on Texas and Louisiana in August 2017, causing catastrophic flooding and more than 100 deaths, is a potent example. Climate scientists believe Harvey was loaded with six to 15 percent more rainfall due to climate change. However, global warming isn’t necessarily triggering more hurricanes, based on theories and models, but it is “loading the dice” for more intense hurricanes. And while attribution science around climate’s impact on hurricane frequency is evolving, Camargo asserted the importance of understanding hurricane risk. “If you live in coastal areas you should always be worried. One is enough. It doesn’t matter if the season is super active or calm. One Category 3 or Category 5 that hits where you live — that’s enough,” said Camargo. In fact, the 1992 season that delivered Hurricane Andrew — a very powerful and destructive Category 5 Atlantic hurricane that struck the Bahamas, Florida, and Louisiana — happened during a calm season with only seven hurricanes. “If you live in a hurricane prone area,” said Camargo, “you should always be prepared.” Tags climate change heat waves hurricane season Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory research-home wildfires News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close