Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College Main Menu About the College Mission History Leadership Strategic Plan My Columbia College Journey Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion News and Updates Visit Columbia College Awards The Core Curriculum Contemporary Civilization Literature Humanities Art Humanities Music Humanities University Writing Frontiers of Science Global Core Requirement Center for the Core Curriculum Academics Current Bulletin Archived Bulletins Academic Credit Academic Coursework Academic Advising and Support Academic Opportunities Academic Honors, Awards and Prizes Academic Integrity Academic Affairs Advising Berick Center for Student Advising Career Advising Fellowship Advising Financial Aid Advising Global Programs Advising Major Advising Preprofessional Advising Admissions Financial Aid Learn About Columbia Visit Columbia Apply to Columbia Campus Life Undergraduate Student Life Student Resources Supporting the College Audiences Faculty Families Alumni Search Academics Home / Academics Over 250 years ago, Dr. Samuel Johnson, the first president of King's College announced that the College was created with the "good design of promoting a liberal education." He went on to define this education as one which would teach students how to ‘reason exactly, write correctly, and speak eloquently,' and to fashion a curriculum which included 13 subjects. Some one hundred and fifty years later, Columbia College introduced a course entitled Contemporary Civilization, the first of the courses in what came to be known as the College's intellectual signature: the Core Curriculum. Columbia College holds true to Dr. Johnson's promise and continues to promote a liberal education, but now with a curriculum which includes upwards of 73 majors, 51 concentrations, 10 special concentrations, and hundreds of electives as well as a Core Curriculum which has, in addition to Contemporary Civilization, Frontiers of Science, Literature, Art, and Music humanities, University Writing, Global Core and language requirements. As the curriculum continues to evolve, the College remains steadfast in its commitment to preparing students for life and work in our rapidly changing world. And no skills are more important than the ability to ‘reason exactly, write correctly, and speak eloquently'. Find Courses Faculty Resources for Virtual Instruction New Courses! See the list of new courses being offered next semester. Academics Current Bulletin Archived Bulletins Academic Credit Academic Coursework Academic Advising and Support Academic Opportunities Academic Honors, Awards and Prizes Academic Integrity Academic Affairs Columbia College Columbia University in the City of New York Facebook Twitter Instagram Contact Us 208 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2805 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 ColumbiaCollege@columbia.edu 212-854-2441 College Offices Alumni Affairs and Development Berick Center for Student Advising Center for Career Education Center for the Core Curriculum Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement Double Discovery Center Eric H. Holder Jr. Initiative for Civil and Political Rights Financial Aid & Educational Financing Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Student Life Core to Commencement © 2022 Columbia University | Privacy Policy | Notice of Non-Discrimination | Terms of Use | Accessibility | University Home Page