COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Midwest Student Exchange Program Section Menu MSEP Home Eligible Programs MSEP FAQ Undergraduate Admissions Graduate School Registrar's Office Scholarships Visit Campus Housing Request Information The Midwest Student Exchange Program (MSEP) allows new students from Indiana, Minnesota, Missouri*, Nebraska*, North Dakota, Ohio and Wisconsin to attend Wichita State University at a discounted tuition rate, making the cost of attending WSU significantly less than out-of-state tuition. Eligible undergraduate students enrolled in 15 credit hours per semester save 33 percent on nonresident tuition rates, a savings of more than $5,800 per year. Eligible graduate students enrolled in nine credit hours per semester save 35 percent on nonresident tuition rates, a savings of more than $5,100 per year. * Students of any major from Missouri and Nebraska automatically qualify for reduced tuition through Shocker Select. Students of any major from the Kansas City, St. Joseph, St. Louis, MO, Grand Island, Lincoln and Omaha, NE metropolitan areas qualify for in-state tuition through Shocker City. MSEP Tuition Undergraduate Students Tuition and Fees (15 hours/semester) Resident MSEP Non-Resident Total each semester $4,440 $6,111 $9,082 Total each year $8,800 $12,222 $18,165 Graduate Students Tuition and Fees (6 hours/semester) Resident MSEP Non-Resident Total each semester $2,347 $3,374 $5,037 Total each year $4,694 $6,749 $10,074 Learn more about MSEP Request Information Apply for Admission Schedule a Visit Additional Information Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Have questions about Wichita State University? Reach out to your representative below! Prospective undergraduate students: Courtney Price-Dukes courtney.price-dukes@wichita.edu 316-978-3162 Prospective graduate students and current WSU students: Kristi Hughes kristi.hughes@wichita.edu 316-978-3073 Additional MSEP Information Residency Requirements To qualify for the Midwest Student Exchange Program, students must be a legal resident of one of the following states: Indiana Minnesota Missouri - Students of any major from Missouri automatically qualify for reduced tuition through Shocker Select. Students of any major from the Kansas City, St. Joseph and St. Louis metropolitan areas qualify for in-state tuition through Shocker City. Nebraska - Students of any major from Nebraska automatically qualify for reduced tuition through Shocker Select. Students of any major from the Grand Island, Lincoln and Omaha metropolitan areas qualify for in-state tuition through Shocker City. North Dakota Ohio Wisconsin Academic Requirements To qualify for the Midwest Student Exchange Program, students must meet the following academic criteria: High School Students - Beginning in Fall 2021 Have a cumulative 2.25 or higher GPA on a 4.00 scale, OR Achieve an ACT composite of 21 or higher OR a minimum combined SAT ERW+M score of 1060 (test optional for admission) And, if applicable, achieve a 2.0 GPA on all college credit taken in high school. If you graduated from a non-accredited high school or were homeschooled, you must: Achieve an ACT of 21 or higher OR a minimum combined SAT ERW+M score of at least 1060, have a cumulative 2.25 or higher GPA on a 4.00 scale. If you enroll in college courses while in high school, you must also achieve a 2.00 GPA or higher in those courses." Transfer Students Minimum 2.50 cumulative GPA on all college credits on a 4.00 scale Meet the high school requirements if transferring with less than 24 credit hours Enroll as a full-time student at WSU NCAA athletes must have a cumulative GPA of 3.00 on a 4.00 scale Graduate Students Be fully admitted into an MSEP-eligible graduate program Enroll full-time in an MSEP-eligible graduate major Graduate students who hold a teaching, research or staff graduate assistantship of 16 hours or more per week are not eligible for MSEP Current WSU MSEP Students To continue receiving the MSEP tuition discount, current WSU MSEP students must: Maintain full-time enrollment Make satisfactory progress toward an approved degree program Maintain a minimum 2.50 cumulative GPA (undergraduate) or minimum 3.00 GPA (graduate) each semester. MSEP-Eligible Programs To qualify for the Midwest Student Exchange Program, students must select an MSEP-eligible major. See a list of undergraduate and graduate MSEP programs. Application Process There are several steps eligible students must complete in order to receive the tuition discount as part of the Midwest Student Exchange Program. Apply for admission! Visit wichita.edu/apply to submit your application materials, pay the application fee and report your academic information. Be sure to submit any official transcripts as necessary. Within a couple of weeks of being admitted, you should receive an MSEP invitation in the mail. Included will be two copies of an agreement form and a pre-addressed envelope. Return the completed form to the Office of the Registrar and retain the other for your records. Once the completed agreement form is received by the Office of the Registrar, the tuition discount will be applied to your record. Please note that the discount will not appear on your financial aid award letter. It will be reflected in your Student Account Suite after the bill is generated for your first semester. Submit any high school and college transcripts as necessary after final grades are posted to confirm your eligibility for MSEP. That’s it! Maintain full-time enrollment, make satisfactory progress toward your approved degree program and maintain a minimum 2.50 cumulative GPA (undergraduate) or minimum 3.00 GPA (graduate) to continue in the program each semester. Questions about MSEP? Frequently Asked Questions 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©