Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Hispanic Serving Institution Menu Search TTU Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Office of Institutional Diversity HSI Achieving HSI Status The History of Achieving HSI Status As of September 25, 2017, the 20th Class Day of the Fall 2017 semester, Texas Tech University reported to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) an enrollment of undergraduate full-time equivalent (FTE) students that is 27.8% Hispanic students. As a result, because Texas Tech's undergraduate student enrollment is at least 25% Hispanic, Texas Tech University meets the minimum Hispanic student enrollment required for status as an Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI). Achievement of full HSI status will mean many new opportunities for Texas Tech faculty, researchers, and students. In the near term, surpassing the 25 percent threshold of Hispanic undergraduate students will allow TTU faculty and researchers to apply for grants funded by entities such as the National Science Foundation, the Department of Agriculture, the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and the National Endowment for the Humanities. Once full HSI status is achieved, Texas Tech will be eligible for up to $8 - $10 million in additional grant funding a year, including Title III and Title V grants funded by the U.S. Department of Education. As a result of this added funding, the entire university will benefit from the achievement of HSI status and new opportunities that will be available in research, teaching, outreach, and community engagement. Creation of HSI Committee In August 2017, TTU President Dr. Lawrence Schovanec tasked Dr. Elizabeth Sharp, Interim VP for Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, to create an HSI Committee to: Identify current and future grants for which TTU will be eligible to apply; Inform the TTU community about the research, funding, and other opportunities that HSI designation brings; and, Strategize support for all students of color and first-generation students to help them achieve an affordable, quality education. TTU HSI Committee The HSI Committee is tasked with working across Texas Tech to amplify and optimize the institution's designation as an HSI, furthering the university's commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion through “Servingness”. The work of the committee will help ensure Texas Tech's HSI designation is further established as a fundamental part of Texas Tech's institutional practice, climate, and culture. The HSI Committee's efforts will center on intentionality and “servingness” to facilitate student sense of belonging, build on the strength of the university community, enhance opportunities for students, faculty, and staff to fully engage and thrive at Texas Tech, and leverage HSI grant funding opportunities to enhance the campus experience. To do this, the HSI Committee will work with each subcommittee to address the areas of focus noted below. HSI Subcommittees Servingness Support and Culture Focus #1: Establish and strengthen the programs, trainings, workshops, professional development opportunities and services necessary to support the campus as a Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI) with a servingness culture. Undergraduate Student Servingness Focus #2: Support student enrollment, retention, graduation, engagement, and sense of belonging especially among Hispanic/Latinx students and low-income, minoritized student populations. Graduate & Post-Doc Student Servingness Focus #3: Increase and support graduate student success outcomes, sense of belonging, and preparation for career placement especially among Hispanic/Latinx students and low-income, minoritized students. Faculty, Staff, and Administration Servingness Focus #4: Maximize funding efforts to recruit diverse faculty and staff, and, through mentorship and other best practices, seek to retain outstanding, diverse employees who will enhance institutional culture. Academic Servingness Focus #5: Work with colleges, programs, and departments to embed culturally relevant curriculum and event programming. Servingness through Data Focus #6: Collect relevant data on resources and programs that help to inform and understand the needs and experiences, areas of engagement, and gaps in services and support of students, faculty, staff, and administration. Servingness through Funding Focus #7: Identify funding opportunities that advance the HSI goals of the university. Community Servingness Focus #8: Educate, elevate, and strengthen the university's identity and commitment to servingness as an HSI through greater engagement with the TTU and Lubbock communities. Overarching Goals: Research and promote practices that have been demonstrated to support and advance minoritized students, faculty, and staff, with a focus on Hispanic/Latinx students, faculty, and staff. Build institutional capacity and identify synergistic opportunities for data informed practice to support Hispanic/Latinx and low-income undergraduate and graduate students. Learn from peer and aspirant institutions and current scholarship to improve and further establish that increasing the success of minoritized students, with a focus on Hispanic students. Identify and make recommendations on how to leverage existing resources and assets, including faculty, staff, and student resources, to benefit all minoritized student populations. The HSI committee is led by a Chair and a Co-Chair and includes three sub-committees led by individuals with university-wide responsibilities that support their chair assignment. The sub-committees and chairs are: HSI Committee Chair – Dr. Carol A. Sumner, Vice President & Chief Diversity Officer HSI Committee Co-Chair – Dr. Ashley M. Gonzales, Assistant Vice President, Office of Institutional Diversity Academic Engagement SubcommitteeChair – Dr. Jesse Mendez, Dean, College of Education Research & External Funding Subcommittee Chair – Dr. Kaye Tindle, Assistant Vice President, Office of Research & Innovation, and Cristal P. Sanchez, Program Manager for the Office of Research Development & Communications (ORDC) in the Office of Research & Innovation. Student Success Subcommittee Chair – Jade Silva Tovar, Assistant Vice President, Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion HSI Committee Members Alumni Association – Chris Snead College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources – Dr. Courtney Gibson College of Architecture – Leslie Nall Washington, Nickolas Delacerda, and Kleigh Hernandez College of Arts & Sciences – Dr. Carmen Pereira, Dr. Miguel Leverio, Dr. Sara Guengerich, Dr. Dominick Casadonte, and Kymberli Saldana College of Education – Dr. Hugo Garcia, Dr. Lucy Arellano, Dr. Heather Spencer, and Chris Corona College of Human Sciences – Dr. Nicole Piland and Billy Tiongco College of Media & Communications – Dr. Sherica Gearhard Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion – Brandon Cruz, Jarett Lujan, Diego Flores, Nanette Dolera, and Christianah Adejokun Graduate School – Honors College – Dr. John Carrell, Zach Rocha, Domonique Murphy, and Dr. Aliza Wong International Affairs – Dr. Joan Williamson and Elizabeth Espino J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts – Dr. Lauryn Salazar Law School – Dr. Sofia Chapman and Jorge Ramirez Office of the Provost – Dr. Elizabeth Trejos-Castillo, Dr. Raegan Higgins, Aaron Pan, and Suzanne Tapp Outreach & Engagement – Sam Sumner Rawls College of Business – Dr. Dino Villegas, Anita Nunez, Amanda Castrejon, and Alesi Hernandez School of Veterinary Medicine – Dr. Heidi Villalba and David Favela Student Affairs – Dr. Elizabeth Massengale and JaWana Green University Libraries – Esther De Leon University Programs & Student Success – Lauren Belasco Whitacre College of Engineering – Jamie Perez and Dr. Adelia Aquino Worldwide eLearning – Ersela Kripa and Otto Ratheal Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Hispanic Serving Institution Like Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on FacebookLike Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Facebook Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitterFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitter Subscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTubeSubscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTube Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on InstagramFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Instagram Address P.O. Box 5024 Lubbock, Texas, 79409-5024; Admin Building, Suite 233 Phone 806-742-7025 Email diversity@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 5, 2022 9:20 AM Hispanic Serving Institution About Hispanic Serving Institution Back About HSI Hispanic Serving Institution About HSI Back What is HSI? Glossary of Terms Programs & Initiatives Development, Resource & Professional Affiliations Hispanic Faculty at Texas Tech Data Hispanic Serving Institution Back Historical Enrollment Data Rankings The History of Achieving HSI status Hispanic Serving Institution The History of Achieving HSI status Back Achieving HSI Status HSI Timeline RAISE Committee Message from the President Message from the Provost Opportunities & Events Hispanic Serving Institution Back Students Hispanic Serving Institution Back Scholarships Resources Grants Hispanic Serving Institution Back Students Research/Outreach Frequently Asked Questions News & Events Hispanic Serving Institution Back Events News Releases Community Profiles Additional Resources Hispanic Serving Institution Back TTU Resources Hispanic Serving Institution Back DDEI website Harris Institute Latino Hispanic Faculty & Staff Association External Resources Hispanic Serving Institution External Resources Back Texas HSI Consortium DOE HSI website HACU Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index