Sign In Search Cart Search for: 0 Items for $0.00 Explore Subjects Books Browse By Subject By Title By Series Award Winning Titles Authors and Editors Current Authors Prospective Authors Journals Browse By Title By Subject Mathematics at DUP Journals fulfilled by DUP Journal Services Authors and Editors Submission Guidelines Ethics Statement for Journals Rights and Permissions Share Your Article Support for Journal Editors Author Resources from University Presses Journal Community Websites FAQ Conferences Prospective Journals DUP as a Publishing Partner Testimonials Start the Conversation Scholarly Publishing Collective Societies Browse American Dialect Society American Society for Ethnohistory Association for Middle East Women's Studies GL/Q Caucus for the Modern Languages Labor and Working-Class History Association Population Association of America Society for French Historical Studies Society for Novel Studies Society Members and Officers How to Join a DUP-Affiliated Society About Your Account Support for Society Officers Conferences Prospective Societies Open Access About Who We Are Leadership Staff What We Do Blog News Awards Contact Us Give Job Opportunities Working at DUP Conferences Information For Advertisers Agents and Vendors Book Authors and Editors Booksellers / Media / Review Copies Customers Educators Librarians and Consortia Journal Authors and Editors Licensing and Subsidiary Rights Mathematics Authors and Editors Prospective Journals Scholarly Publishing Collective Societies Explore Subjects Books Browse Authors and Editors Journals Browse Authors and Editors Prospective Journals Societies Browse Society Members and Officers Prospective Societies Open Access About Who We Are What We Do News Awards Contact Us Give Job Opportunities Conferences Home / The Revolution from Within The Revolution from Within Cuba, 1959–1980 Share Read the Introduction Book Pages: 344 Illustrations: 21 illustrations Published: March 2019 Editor(s): Michael J. Bustamante , Jennifer L. Lambe Contributor(s): Maria A. Cabrera Arus , Christabelle Peters , Abel Sierra Madero , Jorge Macle Cruz , Gilbert M. Joseph , Ada Ferrer , Elizabeth Schwall , Alejandro de la Fuente , Lillian Guerra , Rafael Rojas , Reinaldo Funes Monzote , Maria del Pilar Diaz Castanon Subjects History > Latin American History, Latin American Studies, Caribbean Studies What does the Cuban Revolution look like “from within?" This volume proposes that scholars and observers of Cuba have too long looked elsewhere—from the United States to the Soviet Union—to write the island's post-1959 history. Drawing on previously unexamined archives, the contributors explore the dynamics of sociopolitical inclusion and exclusion during the Revolution's first two decades. They foreground the experiences of Cubans of all walks of life, from ordinary citizens and bureaucrats to artists and political leaders, in their interactions with and contributions to the emerging revolutionary state. In essays on agrarian reform, the environment, dance, fashion, and more, contributors enrich our understanding of the period beginning with the utopic mobilizations of the early 1960s and ending with the 1980 Mariel boatlift. In so doing, they offer new perspectives on the Revolution that are fundamentally driven by developments on the island. Bringing together new historical research with comparative and methodological reflections on the challenges of writing about the Revolution, The Revolution from Within highlights the political stakes attached to Cuban history after 1959. Contributors. Michael J. Bustamante, María A. Cabrera Arús, María del Pilar Díaz Castañón, Ada Ferrer, Alejandro de la Fuente, Reinaldo Funes Monzote, Lillian Guerra, Jennifer L. Lambe, Jorge Macle Cruz, Christabelle Peters, Rafael Rojas, Elizabeth Schwall, Abel Sierra Madero Praise "The Revolution Within is a groundbreaking collection of essays that is ideal for undergraduates, graduate students, and all scholars of Cuba and Latin American revolutions who are looking for a new and in-depth take on 1959 and its legacies. Its historiographic intervention into using known and little-known sources, decentering the United States, and highlighting continuities over ruptures makes it a must-read for studying Cuba in the twenty-first century." — Devyn Spence Benson, H-LatAm, H-Net Reviews "Some of the best historical scholarship on the Cuban Revolution to date.… This book may not provide any startling or new revelations or dramatically overturn what we already know. But its essays contain important methodological themes, creative uses of sources, and valuable insights. In the process, we arrive at a far richer and more complex account of the first two decades of the Cuban Revolution." — Michelle Chase, The Americas "This volume is particularly suitable for students and scholars who seek to understand the causes and effects of the Cuban Revolution, not only within the island but around the world. The essayists eloquently and persuasively develop their theses in a logical, objective way to present a multiplicity of historical perspectives so that readers can interpret the revolution in a panoramic manner." — William O. Deaver Jr., Journal of Global South Studies "Recommended. Graduate students through faculty." — G. de Laforcade, Choice “The Revolution from Within makes an important and timely contribution to the densely populated field of Cuban Studies, injecting fresh insight by challenging some of the dominant, prevailing tropes that have long characterized the scholarly study of the Cuban Revolution, both on and off the island.” — Anna Clayfield, EIAL “The opening chapter by the editors gives us one of the most comprehensive, astute, and objective surveys of the evolving, variable, and always argumentative literature on post-1959 Cuba.... Several contributions stand out for their scope, insight, or novelty.... [Revolution from Within] adds much to our understanding of history in and about Cuba.” — Antoni Kapcia, Hispanic American Historical Review “This book is a welcome and meaningful addition to contemporary Cuban studies.... The subjects covered are original and approached in methodologically interesting and innovative ways, and the diversity and nuance of historical thought in this book allow the reader to find their own path into Cuban history and Revolution(s).” — Isabel Story, Journal of Latin American Studies “A balanced blend of voices from within and beyond the island, together with a proper mix of disciplinary perspectives, makes The Revolution from Within an important early twenty-first-century scholarly demarcation point. This is the state of the art at the moment: the vantage point from which to look back and especially to advance forward.” — Louis A. Pérez Jr., University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill “Moving beyond the black-and-white polemics that have long governed Cuban scholarship, The Revolution from Within considers more ambivalent and ambiguous forms of identification and belonging. Eminently readable, this volume will cause major reverberations within Cuban revolutionary scholarship that will stimulate sustained conversations about how events from the revolutionary period have been experienced and lived outside of canonical national spaces and characters.” — Lauren H. Derby, author of The Dictator’s Seduction: Politics and the Popular Imagination in the Era of Trujillo Buy Paperback Cloth Availability: In stock Please read our FAQ's to learn more about Pre-Orders Price: $28.95 Add to cart Buy the e-book: Amazon Kindle Apple iBooks Barnes & Noble nook Google Play Kobo Open Access Request a desk or exam copy Information Author/Editor Bios Table of Contents Rights Awards Additional Information Author/Editor Bios Back to Top Michael J. Bustamante is Assistant Professor of History at Florida International University. Jennifer L. Lambe is Assistant Professor of History at Brown University and author of Madhouse: Psychiatry and Politics in Cuban History. Table of Contents Back to Top Acknowledgments ix Part I. Stakes of the Field 1. Cuba's Revolution from Within: The Politics of Historical Paradigms / Jennifer L. Lambe and Michael J. Bustamante 3 2. The New Text of the Revolution / Rafael Rojas 33 3. Writing the Revolution's History out of Closed Archives? Cuban Archival Law and Access to Information / Jorge Macle Cruz 47 Part II. Case Studies: The Revolution from Within 4. Searching for the Messiah: Staging Revolution in the Sierra Maestra, 1956-1959 / Lillian Guerra 67 5. "We Demand, We Demand . . .": Cuba, 1959: The Paradoxes of Year 1 / María del Pilar Díaz Castañón 95 6. Geotransformación: Geography and Revolution in Cuba from the 1950s to the 1960s / Reinaldo Funes Monzote 117 7. Between Espíritu and Conciencia: Cabaret and Ballet Developments in 1960s Cuba / Elizabeth Schwall 146 8. When the "New Man" Met the "Old Man": Guevara, Nyerere, and the Roots of Latin-Africanism / Christabelle Peters 170 9. The Material Promise of Socialist Modernity: Fashion and Domestic Space in the 1970s / María A. Cabrera Arús 189 10. Anniversary Overload? Memory Fatigue at Cuba's Socialist Apex / Michael J. Bustamante 218 11. "Here, Everyone's Got Huevos, Mister!": Nationalism, Sexuality, and Collective Violence during the Mariel Exodus / Abel Sierra Madero 244 Part III. Concluding Reflections 12. Cuba 1959 / Haiti 1804: On History and Caribbean Revolution / Ada Ferrer 277 13. La Ventolera: Ruptures, Persistence, and the Historiography of the Cuban Revolution / Alejandro de la Fuente 290 14. Whither the Empire? / Jennifer L. Lambe 306 Contributors 319 Index 321 RightsBack to Top Sales/Territorial Rights: World Rights and licensing Awards Back to Top Additional InformationBack to Top Paper ISBN: 978-1-4780-0296-3 / Cloth ISBN: 978-1-4780-0170-6 Publicity material Front Cover Image Related Items Also Viewed Also Purchased Also Viewed Trouillot Remixed This Nonviolent Stuff′ll Get You Killed The Archive and the Repertoire The Intimacies of Four Continents The Darker Side of Western Modernity Reckoning with Slavery Subversive Habits Planetary Longings The School of the Americas The Rise of the American Conservation Movement Also Purchased A City on a Lake In A City on a Lake Matthew Vitz tracks the environmental and political history of Mexico City and explains its transformation from a forested, water-rich... Exporting Revolution In her new book, Exporting Revolution, Margaret Randall explores the Cuban Revolution's impact on the outside world, tracing Cuba's international... Mafalda Since its creation in 1964, readers from all over the world have loved the comic Mafalda, primarily because of the sharp wit and rebellious nature of its... The Initials of the Earth Many critics consider The Initials of the Earth to be the quintessential novel of the Cuban Revolution and the finest work by the Cuban writer and filmmaker... Duke University Press 905 W. Main St. Ste 18-B Durham, NC 27701 USA Phone (888) 651-0122 International +1 (919) 688-5134 Email orders@dukeupress.edu Information For Advertisers Agents and Vendors Book Authors and Editors Booksellers / Media / Review Copies Customers Educators Librarians and Consortia Journal Authors and Editors Licensing and Subsidiary Rights Mathematics Authors and Editors Prospective Journals Scholarly Publishing Collective Societies Careers View Open Positions Working at Duke University Press Join Our Mailing List Recent Catalogs Connect Facebook Twitter YouTube Pintrest Instagram © 2022 Duke University Press. All Rights Reserved. Accessibility Legal Privacy Top