Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Counseling Faculty and Research Degree Programs Clinical Mental Health (Post-Master's Certificate)College and Career Counseling (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate)Disability Studies (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate)Disability Support Services (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate)School Counseling (Post-Master's Certificate)Addiction Counseling (MS)Clinical Mental Health Counseling (MS)Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling (MS)Marriage, Couple, and Family Counseling (MS)School Counseling (MS)Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling (MS)Counselor Education and Supervision (PhD) Mission Statement Current Students Practicum & InternshipLinks to Counseling ResourcesGeneral Campus ContactsStudent Wellbeing and Evaluation Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Our Counseling programs give you the knowledge and tools to change lives for the better. The programs in our Counseling Division are designed to prepare individuals for positions in a variety of counseling professions. Following the 8 core competencies outlined by CACREP, the Division's objectives are to prepare counselors who will ethically promote the well-being of individuals, families, mental health organizations and communities located in metropolitan, rural and global settings. We offer six degree master's degree programs, a Ph.D., and five graduate-level certificates within the Division. Follow the links below to learn more about each program. When applying, please select the appropriate concentration in the online system. Graduate Certificate Programs College and Career Counseling Disability Studies Disability Support Services School Counseling Master's Programs Addiction Counseling [Note: this is a new program that has is not yet accredited] Clinical Mental Health Counseling Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling Marriage, Couple, and Family Counseling [Note: this is a new program that has is not yet accredited. We will admit the first class to this program in Spring 2022] School Counseling Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling Doctoral Program Counselor Education and Supervision (PhD) Five of our Master's degree programs and our Doctoral program are accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP). Our MS in Rehabilitation Counseling is currently ranked #20 in U.S. News and World Report's list of best Rehabilitation Counseling programs! Access our CACREP Vital Statistics Report 2021 and the 2020 report . Read our January 2019 letter from CACREP. Points of Pride The Counseling Division is nationally ranked and known for its high quality, dedication to its students, and impact on the community. Some of our core points of pride include: We are the largest Counseling program in the state in terms of student enrollment We have more Counseling concentrations than any other program in Tennessee (six at the master's level) We have the only Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling/ Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling program in the state, and it is ranked 20th in the nation We have the only MS program in Addiction Counseling in Tennessee We have the most diverse student population of any Counseling program in Tennessee Guiding Documents Five mission statements provide structure and purpose to the Department of Counseling. First, the Mission Statement of the University provides a framework for focusing on engaged scholarship, learner centered programs, and responsible stewardship. Second, the College of Education specifies the preparation of candidates to serve a diverse community. Third, The Mission Statement of the American Counseling Association (ACA) defines Professional Counseling and identifies the role of the Professional Counselor in various settings. Fourth, the mission statement of the counseling program connects the preceding mission statements to the art and science of educating Professional Counselors. Finally, each counseling concentration has developed a specific mission statement to further develop the precepts outlined by the counseling department mission statement. From these documents, the department faculty members have identified eight over-arching program objectives for student learning outcomes. Counseling Program Mission The University of Memphis Counseling programs are dedicated to: Providing a learner-centered environment for students to engage in experiential learning activities while also fostering the students' development of self-care and self-reflexive practices that will support their continued success as counselors beyond graduate school. Fostering multicultural competence and social justice through increasing self-awareness and respect for human dignity and diversity. Training ethical and competent counselors with a repertoire of skills grounded in evidence-based practice to engage in with the diverse communities in which they live. Assisting emerging counselors in developing a professional counselor identity that values a developmental, strengths-based, wellness approach to helping clients enhance their quality of life. Program Objectives Students will develop a professional counselor identity consistent with respective credentialing for specialty area (e.g. licensure, certification) and demonstrate professional and ethical behavior consistent with professional codes of ethics in their interaction with fellow student/colleagues, faculty, and clients that values a developmental, strengths-based, wellness approach to helping clients enhance their quality of life. Students will develop cultural knowledge, self-awareness, skills, and strategies for counseling and advocacy within a diverse community Students will demonstrate an understanding of theory and practice as they relate to diverse developmental experiences across the lifespan and in diverse contexts and settings. Students will describe and apply a variety of career counseling theories, models, assessment, and techniques and how they apply to diverse populations in a global community. Students will demonstrate an ability to create an environment conducive to developing counseling relationships consistent with client goals and evidence based skills in assessment, counseling, case conceptualization, treatment planning, and documentation. Students will understand principles of group dynamics, including group processing components, developmental stage theories, group members' roles and behaviors, and therapeutic factors of group work that include group leadership or facilitation styles and approaches and characteristics of various types of groups. Students will demonstrate ethically and culturally competent test and non-test assessment selection, administration, scoring, and interpretation skills related to academic/educational, career, personal, and social development, including risk assessment in a variety of settings. Students will demonstrate the ability to identify, critically evaluate, and apply quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods research to inform and evaluate counseling practice. Please see our Counseling Graduate Student Handbook for more detailed information about specific program plans and objectives. An evaluation of our program for all objectives can be found here: 2020 Annual Report- Department of Counseling Licensure and Certification Many educational programs offered by the University of Memphis lead to professional certification and licensure within the State of Tennessee. Counseling is one such program. Students should be aware that licensure and certification requirements vary from state to state and are subject to change at any time. Licensing agencies or boards also may have requirements in addition to an earned degree. The University of Memphis has not made a determination whether the University of Memphis's programs will meet all of the licensure and certification requirements in each US state or territory. The University of Memphis recommends that students who are not Tennessee residents or who plan to seek licensure or certification outside the state of Tennessee to please contact the appropriate licensing agency or board prior to enrollment in an academic program designed to lead to licensure or certification and discuss their plans with an advisor. For Counseling programs, the best place to obtain current licensing board contact information listings maintained by the American Counseling Association which may be found here. Additional sources for information on professional licensure and certification may be found here and here. Scholarships and Funding Students in the Ph.D. program in Counselor Education and Supervision receive funding via Research and Teaching Assistantships. Our RAs and TAs receive tuition remission and a monthly stipend. Students from disadvantaged backgrounds in the Clinical Mental Health Counseling program may apply for funding through the Memphis Disadvantaged Students Scholarship (MDSS) funded by the U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). Eligibility is based on HRSA criteria. Students funded by the MDSS must be enrolled full-time and in good academic standing. The MDSS pays all tuition and fees for 9-credit hours per semester and a small stipend. Contact Dr. Steve West for more information. Students in the Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling and Rehabilitation Counseling programs may apply for funding provided by the Rehabilitation Services Administration. The RSA Scholarship intended to fund the tuition, fees, and stipends for master's students in either. The intent of the grant is to increase the number of rehabilitation counselors prepared to work in vocational rehabilitation settings. Students interested in this scholarship opportunity should contact Dr. Steve Zanskas for additional information. Application Process Applicants are selected during the fall and spring semesters based on their undergraduate record, graduate record (where applicable), Graduate Record Examination results, personal interview conducted by program faculty, a completed goal statement, letters of recommendation that address the applicant's suitability for the counseling profession, ethics, and demonstration of diversity related endeavors. Apply Now > University of Memphis – Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research has been approved by NBCC as an Approved Continuing Education Provider, ACEP No. 4082. Programs that do not qualify for NBCC credit are clearly identified. University of Memphis is solely responsible for all aspects of the programs. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/6/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.