Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Proposal Submission Policy & Guidelines The University has a 5/3 day requirement for proposal submission. The completed proposal is due to OSP or BMRA five (5) business days before the sponsor deadline and the PI can take an additional three (3) days to finalize the scientific and/or programmatic components of the application. Guidance is presented below in four sections: Timeline for scientific and/or programmatic components of the application Practices for Monday due dates, holidays, and Pre-proposal Further Guidance on the 5/3 Day Rule by Proposal Type Orginal 5 Business Day Rule Timeline for scientific and/or programmatic components of the application In order to allow Principal Investigators additional time for a final read‐through and last minute minor editing, corrections or updates to proposals, the five day requirement is amended as follows: Complete proposals are due at OSP/BMRA five days before the sponsor’s deadline, however PIs will have until Day 3 of the 5 day period prior to the Sponsor’s due date to replace a draft version of technical/science documents with the corresponding final version in the Coeus proposal record. On the morning of Day 4 (8:30 am AY/8:00 am Summer) OSP/BMRA is authorized to submit the proposal without further review. PIs who take advantage of this relaxed internal deadline must accept the risk that a change to the technical section of the proposal may cause a submission failure. OSP/BMRA will not retrieve the proposal and correct resulting submission errors caused by PI changes to updated proposals. The final version of a proposal will be submitted by OSP/ BMRA in advance of a Sponsor’s due date whenever possible to ensure it is successfully received by the sponsor. Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Day 5 Sponsor Deadline OSP/BMRA Review ‐ Comments and Corrections Addressed by PI/Department Revised Technical/ Science Sections Uploaded to Coeus Proposal Submitted by OSP/BMRA to Sponsor Submitting a Complete Proposal The guidance requires that a complete proposal is due to OSP/BMRA five (5) days in advance of the sponsors’ due date. This allows routing in Coeus for Departmental approvals and the return of review comments from OSP/BMRA to the Department Managers and PIs. The submitted proposal must include all required elements specified in the sponsor’s application guidelines. Technical/Science sections submitted in draft format should be labeled in the document file title by section name and followed by “DRAFT” or “FINAL”. If, on Day 1 a submitted proposal does not meet these criteria, the PI will be directed to the appropriate official to request a waiver of the 5 Day Rule. During days 1‐3 PIs may devote extra time to “polishing” and a final read‐through of the technical section/ science. It is expected that the final science documents will differ only slightly (e.g., minor editing, figure captions, update to data tables, typo corrections) from the original version. OSP/BMRA will not review or provide feedback on ‘final’ technical sections. Changes made to the scientific components must not affect any of the following elements: Budget changes including direct and indirect costs; implied or stated cost‐sharing. Involvement of non‐Brown employees; subcontractors; consultants and collaborators; foreign nationals or Federal employees; Export control concerns (ITARS/EARS); Intellectual property (patents, copyrights, licenses); proprietary, privileged or potentially patentable information, conflicts of interest; Involvement of human research participants, laboratory animal subjects and the environment, proposed clinical trials, or use of human embryonic stem cells; Use of recombinant DNA, potentially infectious agents, hazardous waste, select agents, radiation producing or radioactive materials, biohazards; Use of University facilities and equipment, additional space, alterations/construction, specialized or fabrication of equipment; In the event an award is made and University obligations appear which were not present in the draft proposal, such obligations will be the sole responsibility of the PI and academic department. Scientific Components of most common proposals submitted by Brown Faculty: NIH: Project Summary, Research Plan – Specific Aims & Research Strategy, References Cited, Cover Letter for Resubmission applications NSF: Project Summary, Project Description, Bibliography Federal Prime Subawards: Scope of Work Statement NASA: Proposal Summary (abstract), Scientific/Technical/Management Section, References and Citations DOE: Project Description, Bibliography DoD: Technical Approach and Justification, Project Schedule & Milestones Practices for Monday due dates, holidays, and Pre-proposals University policy states that proposals for external support of projects based at Brown are ordinarily due to the Office of Sponsored Projects (OSP) or BioMed Research Administration (BMRA) five (5) business days prior to the sponsor’s due date. However, the following exceptions are made to accommodate the proposal preparation process: For deadlines that fall on a MONDAY, complete proposals may be submitted until 9:00 am on the Monday prior to the deadline date. This gives the PI additional weekend to work through the technical portions of the application. For University Holidays that fall on Monday, proposals are due to OSP/BMRA on TUESDAY by noontime after the Holiday. The Holidays include Labor Day First Monday in September Fall Weekend (observed) Second Monday in October Martin Luther King, Jr. Day (obs.) Third Monday in January Memorial Day Last Monday in May Further Guidance on the 5/3 Day Rule by Proposal Type White paper or Concept Paper - preliminary ideas or data presented to determine interest of sponsor in funding a project or program Short narrative (1-5 pages) No OSP/BMRA review, PI submits directly to sponsor 5/3 day proposal submission rule does not apply Letter of Intent to apply (a/k/a "LOI") - informs sponsor of planned full proposal Short narrative (1-5 pages) Total cost estimate only, no detailed budget OSP/BMRA approval is optional (per Sponsor instructions) No COEUS record, PI or designee submits to sponsor 5/3 day proposal submission rule does not apply Pre‐Proposal (simple) - federal and non-federal sponsors Narrative with minimal other components (e.g., Biosketch, COA List) Total cost estimate, no detailed budget OSP/BMRA approval is optional (per Sponsor instructions) No COEUS record PI or designee submits directly to sponsor 5/3 day proposal submission rule does not apply Pre‐Proposal (complex) - National Science Foundation (NSF), other federal and non-federal sponsors Narrative with minimal other components (e.g., Biosketch, COA List) Detailed budget may be required OSP/BMRA approval may be required COEUS record required Research.gov/Fastlane and federal submission by OSP/BMRA Non-federal sponsor submission may be by PI or Designee, OSP/BMRA Due to OSP/BMRA 3 days before Sponsor's due date Full Proposal Narrative with statement of work; detailed budget and justification; current/pending support; biosketch/cv; facilities and environmental; bibliography/references, ect. Detailed line item or modular budget is required OSP/BMRA signature required Coeus record required Submission by OSP/BMRA Due to OSP/BMRA 5 days before Sponsor's due date Notes If award terms or conditions are included in sponsor's instructions, approval, review and submission by OSP/BMRA is mandatory. If sponsor restricts the number of applicants from Brown University, advance clearance from OVPR’s Office of Research Strategy and Development is required. If there is any potentially patentable information, include markings that designate the information as confidential/ proprietary. Principal Investigators who are concerned about protecting intellectual property as either patent or copyright, are encouraged to contact Brown Technology Innovations. Please also see the Proposal Submission Guidance Chart for further guidance on which proposals require a Coeus record Original 5 Business Day Rule Sept 1, 2009 Dear Colleagues, We write to request your cooperation and assistance in Brown University's commitment to meeting agency deadlines while submitting proposals of the highest quality, and to maintain fairness and consistency among faculty colleagues in this process. For some time we have had a policy requesting that PIs submit proposals to OSP/BMRA five days before the agency deadline, in order to allow for adequate review, correction of errors or omissions, compliance with agency requirements, and submission through a variety of electronic mechanisms. The five day rule has not been widely observed and our experience over the last year has included several large proposals which nearly missed the agency deadline and numerous serious errors in proposals that caused them to be returned. These events were directly attributable to the lateness of their submission to OSP or BMRA. Furthermore, an increasingly unfair burden is placed upon department administrators who are tasked with submitting late and incomplete proposals to OSP/BMRA, and upon principal investigators who do submit their proposals on time only to see them put aside while late proposals are processed as emergencies. These events have convinced us that the five day rule must now be made mandatory. Therefore, effective October 1, we are instructing OSP and BMRA NOT TO ACCEPT FOR REVIEW ANY PROPOSAL THAT IS LATER THAN 5 BUSINESS DAYS PRIOR TO THE AGENCY DEADLINE FOR SUBMISSION. For example, proposals intended to be submitted for the upcoming October 5 agency deadlines, that are received in OSP or BMRA after the close of business on September 25, will be returned to the PI without further action. It is incumbent upon our staffs to abide by this policy, and exceptions are not anticipated. In the case of serious extenuating circumstances, a request for exception to this policy must be made at least five days before the deadline directly to Clyde Briant, who will consult with Ed Wing as appropriate. We appreciate your understanding of the seriousness of this issue, and for supporting our efforts to provide comprehensive, substantive, and productive assistance to all faculty submitting proposals for external funding. Sincerely, Dr. Clyde Briant Vice President for Research Dr. Edward Wing Dean of Medicine & Biological Sciences Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Proposal Development Services Proposal Review & Submission (OSP) Institutional Facts & Reference Documents Proposal Submission Policy & Guidelines Fair Labor Standards Act – 2016 Important Update Uniform Guidance CARES Act Funding at Brown Proposal Review Checklists Cost Sharing Cost Sharing FAQs Subawards Lifecycle OSP Contacts by Department Identifying all Sources of Support in Proposals for External Funding Principal Investigator (PI) Eligibility for Externally Sponsored Awards Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat