Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Teal Residential College Menu About Mission, Covenant, & Crest Gordon K. Teal Apply Application Process Requirements Community Expectations Housing Rates & LLP Fees Events Community Traditions Leadership College Council Community Leaders Faculty & Staff Community Spaces Residence Hall Areas Room Types Dimensions & Photos Current Students Non-Resident Membership Teal Library Maintenance Request Reserve a Room Teal Residential College As a community steeped in tradition and intentional fellowship, our program offers Engineering, Computer Science, and Nursing students of all classifications a place to engage with peers, faculty, and staff while pursuing excellence in work, faith in life, and fun in free time. Explore APPLY NOW ApplyCommunity TraditionsReserve a RoomLibrary Cardboard Regatta With only cardboard, duct tape, and creativity, our annual competition features a boat built by each floor that students race across the Brazos river. It is a sight to behold! Learn More Coffee House Our students are multi-talented! Whether by playing music, singing, reciting poetry, or even snapping a tune, Teal residents gather once per semester to share their talents with their peers! Learn More Freshman Retreat Every fall, the new class of first-year Teal students gather together for an off-campus retreat to learn about Teal history and traditions, meet upper-division students, and build a community among peers. Learn More Community Spaces Being the newest construction on Baylor’s campus, Teal Hall offers a variety of convenient spaces for students to access 24/7. These spaces were designed to provide a collaborative environment inspiring academic success while also giving students a comfortable place to call home. Hall Details Teal Hall features a variety of room types to meet the needs of students of all classifications. From community style living to apartments, our facility brings the best of all living arrangements in addition to study rooms, laundry spaces, and more on each floor! Explore Community Spaces Events See More Events Resident Profiles See More Profiles Carson McCarver Sophomore Mechanical Engineering Major "Teal, apart from being one of the nicest (and newest!) residence halls on campus, is a great place for ECS students to live because of the proximity to peers. For me, that means mutual academic experiences, availability to help, and a closer connection to the people I met in class. It's a great way to make friends." Celaine Hornsby Freshman Pre-Engineering "I chose Baylor because I wanted to attend a university that would allow me to grow both academically and morally. Not only did I seek small class sizes and excellent professors, but I also hoped for a supportive environment of both professors and students, which, in my opinion, is accomplished through Baylor's Christian mission." Jeff Sonola Junior Electrical and Computer Engineering Major "At the end of the day, you are here for you and your education and if you want to get the best of it, being surrounded by like-minded students really does help. Teal allowed me to stay focused because I was always surrounded by classmates, so it was easy to get help and keep myself accountable for my work." Teal Residential College Teal Residential College One Bear Place #60002 Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-4231 Teal_RC@baylor.edu ApplyEventsCommunity Spaces General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Mission, Covenant, & Crest Gordon K. Teal Apply Application Process Requirements Community Expectations Housing Rates & LLP Fees Events Community Traditions Leadership College Council Community Leaders Faculty & Staff Community Spaces Residence Hall Areas Room Types Dimensions & Photos Current Students Non-Resident Membership Teal Library Maintenance Request Reserve a Room