Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Facilities Management FACILITIES MANAGEMENT Show/Hide SERVICES Customer Service FM Partnership Program Operations and Maintenance Heating and Cooling Sold Service Estimates Divisions Planning, Design & Construction Sustainability Event and Conference Real Estate Custodial and Moves More... MAPS Campus Map AED Locations Accessibility Map Space Reports Building List Building Space Download Maps PROJECTS Capital Projects Current Active Projects List Brook Street Residence Halls Churchill House Renovation and Addition Greenhouse Gas Reduction & Decarbonization Project LGBTQ Identity Center Lincoln Field Building Renovation & Addition Lindemann Performing Arts Center Completed Marston Boathouse Renewal Phase 2 Wellness Center & Residence Hall Center for Lacrosse and Soccer GeoChem Infrastructure Renewal John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Library School of Professional Studies Sharpe House Relocation Division of Applied Mathematics Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship 164 Angell Street Renovation Pizzitola Sports Center Friedman Hall Building Renovation John Hay Library 85 Waterman Street Stephen Robert '62 Hall Andrews Commons South Street Landing Barus & Holley, Prince Lab Engineering Research Center Keeney Quad Miller, Metcalf, & Andrews Halls 315 Thayer Jonathan M. Nelson Fitness & Katherine Moran Coleman Aquatics Center Metcalf Research Building Warren Alpert Medical School Brown Stadium Turf Renovation Meehan Auditorium Team Experience Phase I Thermal Efficiency Project Perry & Marty Granoff Center for the Creative Arts Planning Resources Project Delivery Process Project Initiation Organization Delivery Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 Category 4 Turnover Project Management Tools Project Information Management System Benchmarking Dashboard Reporting Decision Matrix Risk Register Schedule Analysis Design Standards Webcams SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT FM Leadership Mission & Values Organizational Chart News Newsletter Announcements Hours of Operation Directions FM PORTAL Planon FM Reportal Other Apps Meridian BEE FM Web Reports Floor Plans Dorm Floor Plans Planon FM IT FM Maps Admin Maps URL Builder Active Building List Internal Memos Suggestion Box COVID-19 COVID FAQs COVID Cleaning FAQs Disinfectant Cleaner FAQs Portable Air Cleaner FAQs Toilet Seat Cover FAQs Touchless Campus FAQs FM Partnerships HVAC & Water Systems FAQs HVAC Building Narratives Building Ventilation Matrix Touchless Campus FAQs What does the Touchless Campus Initiative consist of? In response to industry best practices, public health guidance, and state/local regulations, a number of efforts at Brown University have been undertaken in order to minimize the number of high touch areas that our students, faculty, staff and visitors will have to encounter. Components of this project include: Touchless restroom water faucets (in non-dorm buildings) StepNPull Hands-Free Foot-Operated Door Openers Touchless Paper Towel Dispensers Please always refer to Healthy Brown for the latest information and best practices to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and continue to follow the CDC’s advice. These include social distancing, wearing a face covering, washing your hands frequently, and treating frequently touched surfaces with disinfectants. What should I do if any of these components are not properly working? If any of these fixtures is observed to be malfunctioning, please contact Facilities Management Service Response by visiting the FM website to submit a Service Request or by calling 401-863-7800. How do touchless water faucets work? When hands are placed under the spout of a touchless faucet the water easily streams out to provide a quick rinse. What if the touchless faucet is not working properly? Please contact Facilities Management Service Response by visiting the FM website to submit a Service Request or by calling 401-863-7800. The CDC recommends that hands be washed for 20 seconds. Why does the water not flow out of the faucet for 20 seconds? The touchless water faucets at Brown University have been programmed to run water for at least 20 seconds. If it does not run for 20 seconds, pull your hand back to reset the timer, then place your hand in front of the sensor again. Why have StepNPull door openers been installed on bathroom doors? In order to minimize physical contact with high touch surfaces such as restroom doors, StepNPull door openers have been professionally installed in order to allow theses doors to be opened using only one’s foot. Please always refer to Healthy Brown for the latest information and best practices to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and continue to follow the CDC’s advice, including social distancing, wearing a face covering outdoors, washing your hands frequently, and treating frequently touched surfaces with disinfectants. How does StepNPull work? Please use caution and be mindful of the potential that someone is coming in the opposite direction at the same time that you are attempting to use the StepNPull door opener. As you approach the door, position your body as though you were going to use the door handle. As shown in the illustration, place your preferred foot on the top of the StepNPull and press down enough to gain traction. Pull your foot and leg back as though you were taking a step. Simply step and pull. Doors have been adjusted so that this action will be sufficient to actually swing the door open and out of your way. Depending on your shoe type, you may want to try different shoe angles or positions in order to find the one that yields the most grip. If the sole of your shoe is very smooth, you may not be able to gain sufficient traction to open the door with your foot. Revision: November 30, 2020 Submit Service Request & Event Support Request COVID FAQs COVID Cleaning FAQs Disinfectant Cleaner FAQs Portable Air Cleaner FAQs Toilet Seat Cover FAQs Touchless Campus FAQs FM Partnerships HVAC & Water Systems FAQs HVAC Building Narratives Building Ventilation Matrix Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Facilities Management Brown University Box 1941 295 Lloyd Ave. Providence, RI 02912 Directions Facility Emergency: Tel: (401) 863-7800 Service Request: Tel: (401) 863-7800 Main Office: Tel: (401) 863-7850 Fax: (401) 863-7885 FM Portal FM Home Maps Feedback Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat