Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Home About History Staff Advisors Postdoctoral, Faculty, and Graduate Fellows Visiting Faculty Practitioner Fellows Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Events News Programs + Initiatives Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Site Navigation Home About History Staff Advisors Postdoctoral, Faculty, and Graduate Fellows Visiting Faculty Practitioner Fellows Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Events Past Events Co-sponsorship Requests Featured Events Around Campus Signature Series Underlying Conditions The Third Rail Series Writing for a Broken World What I Am Thinking About Now "First Works" Series Race at the Center of the Humanities New Book Talks STEM Conversation Series Dr. Jean Shim Yun Lecture Series Graduate Professionalization Workshop Series Critical Conversations Summer Reading Series News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Practitioner Fellows Below is a list of our current Practitioner Fellows. View a list of former fellows. Mary-Kim Arnold Practitioner Fellow (2021-2022), Assistant Professor of the Practice, Nonfiction Writing Program, Brown University Mary Kim Arnold Mary-Kim Arnold is the author of the poetry collection The Fish & The Dove (Noemi Press, 2020) and Litany for the Long Moment (Essay Press, 2018), an experimental memoir of her adoption from Korea. Read full profile Colin Channer Practitioner Fellow (2021-2022), Assistant Professor of Literary Arts, Brown University Colin Channer Colin Channer’s works of fiction and poetry include the poetry collection Providential (Akashic Books, 2015) and the novella The Girl With the Golden Shoes (Akashic Books 2007). He was born in Jamaica; and raised there and in New York. Colin’s poetry has appeared in The New Yorker, The Poetry Review (UK), Agni, Harvard Review, Conjunctions and other venues. Read full profile Jeremy Dennis Visiting Practitioner Fellow (2021-2022) Jeremy Native Jeremy Dennis (b. 1990) is a contemporary fine art photographer and a tribal member of the Shinnecock Indian Nation in Southampton, NY. In his work, he explores indigenous identity, culture, and assimilation. Read full profile Helina Metaferia Practitioner Fellow (2021-2022), Assistant Professor of Visual Art, Brown University Helina Metaferia Helina Metaferia is an interdisciplinary artist working across collage, assemblage, video, performance, and social engagement. Her work interrogates the body's relationship to sites, especially as it relates to notions of identity and citizenship. Read full profile Tracy Murrell Visiting Practitioner Fellow (2021-2022) Tracy Murrell Tracy Murrell is a visual artist, art consultant, and curator. With funding from the National Performance Network, Murrell has been commissioned to explore contemporary Haitian migration and produce new artistic works with the intention of offering a counter-narrative to the immigration story and bringing to light the universality of migration as a shared experience through the female lens. Read full profile Alan Pelaez Lopez Visiting Practitioner Fellow (2021-2022) Alan Pelaez Alan Pelaez Lopez is an interdisciplinary writer, visual artist, and theorist from Oaxaca, México. In their poetic and visual work, Alan attends to questions of Black futures, trans kinship, and Indigenous (un)belonging. Their theoretical writing excavates and addresses the intimate relationship between settler-colonialism, forced migration, and the global circuit of anti-Black violence. Read full profile Leslie Tai Visiting Practitioner Fellow (2021-2022) Leslie Tai Leslie Tai is a Chinese-American filmmaker from San Francisco, CA. Her shorts have premiered at Tribeca Film Festival, MoMA’s Doc Fortnight, IDFA, and Visions du Réel. From 2006-2011, Tai lived and exhibited work as a member of the New Independent Chinese Documentary Movement in Beijing. Read full profile About History Staff Advisors Postdoctoral, Faculty, and Graduate Fellows Visiting Faculty Practitioner Fellows Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Stay Connected Subscribe to our newsletter Visit Our YouTube Channel The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) Brown University Box 2032 96 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5775 Fax: 401-863-5784 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top