Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University Academic Support Centers KU Writing Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Contact People Accessibility and Accommodations Frequently Asked Questions Hours and Locations Join Our Staff How Consultations Work Select to follow link Face-to-Face Writing Consultations Videoconference Appointments eTutoring Student Support Select to follow link Undergraduate Students Select to follow link Book a Writing Consultation Writing Guides Graduate Students Select to follow link Book a Writing Consultation Graduate Research/Write-Ins Graduate Writing Coaching Graduate Writing Groups Thesis/Dissertation Accelerator Multilingual Writers Guests Assignment Planner Instructor Support Select to follow link Workshops Writing Fellows Select to follow link Writing Fellow Models Writing Fellow Benefits Writing Fellow Commitments Writing Fellow Appointments Writing Guides Select to follow link Academic Essays Select to follow link Abstracts Editing and Proofreading Essays Prewriting Strategies Research Papers Revising Content Revising Organization The Writing Process Thesis Statements Avoiding Plagiarism Select to follow link Academic Integrity Incorporating Refrences Paraphrase and Summary Formatting Select to follow link APA Format Bibliographies Chicago Manual of Style MLA Format Other Guides Select to follow link Audience and Voice Evaluating Websites Funding Applications Historiography Literature Reviews Narrowing a Topic Original Research Personal Statements Primary vs. Secondary Sources Theses and Dissertations Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo University Academic Support Centers KU Writing Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Create. Compose. Communicate. Schedule an Appointment Resources Writers need feedback, sounding boards, and other people to coach them while they compose. That's where the KU Writing Center comes in. It's a place for productive talk about writing, with trained peer consultants to help you brainstorm, draft, and revise your projects. Undergrad Students Undergrad Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Instructor Support Instructor Support Assignment Planner Assignment Planner Writing Guides Writing Guides Workshops Workshops Work For Us! Student Employment Opportunities! Click The Apply Now Button For More Info On Working For The Writing Center. Apply Here! Donate to the KU Writing Center Help write our future! Your gifts can help the writing center provide writing groups, consultations, course-embedded Writing Fellows, and more. Donate Anschutz Library, Room 424 1301 Hoch Auditoria Dr Lawrence, KS 66045 writing@ku.edu 785-864-2399 facebook instagram twitter Academic Success University Academic Support Centers Student Employment Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.