SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu MA / MBA MA / MBA Overview MA/MBA Student Profiles Overview MA/MBA Student Profiles Jump To A Section Overview Curriculum Meet the MBA Faculty Admissions Overview You need more than a deep appreciation for the arts to succeed in arts management. Today more than ever, the arts organizations need skilled, resourceful administrators and managers in leadership roles. That’s why the Meadows School for the Arts and the Cox School of Business have teamed up to provide you with an innovative, two-year joint degree that can be done either full-time or part-time and combines courses in both business and the arts, as well as internships and intensive experience with arts organizations and their particular challenges. As a graduate, you’ll be set for a leadership role in any art, entertainment, education or nonprofit organization in the world. See the SMU Cox Full-Time Two-Year MBA Program See the SMU Cox (part-time) Professional MBA program See the SMU Meadows MA Program Curriculum A dynamic mix of rigorous classroom study and hands-on learning, the SMU MA/MBA prepares you to think like an executive and make data driven decisions. You'll take classes from an award-winning faculty at both the Meadows and Cox Schools, and apply what you've learned with internships at some the country's most well respected cultural organizations. And during your second year, you'll have a semester abroad at Milan's Bocconi University. Meet the MBA Faculty See All Cox Faculty Robin Pinkley Professor, Management and Organizations The recipient of SMU's Golden Mustang Award for innovative teaching, Robin is a recognized authority on strategic negotiation and conflict management. She has consulted with numerous corporate and government organizations. Shreekumar R. Bhaskaran Associate Professor of Information Technology and Operations Management Sreekumar Bhaskaran’s research focuses on new product development and innovation. Sreekumar was named among the "Best 40 B-School Profs Under the Age of 40” in the Poets&Quants ranking of business school professors. Marcus Butts Associate Professor of Management and OrganizationsMarilyn and Leo Corrigan Endowed Research Professor Organizational behavior is where psychology and management meet. Learn this vital science from Marcus Butts. See Marcus Butts' full bio Admissions The SMU MA/MBA degree has one application that can be accessed via the Two-Year MBA or Professional MBA applications – choose “Master of Arts Administration/MBA” in the Joint Degree Program Selection field. We're very happy to answer any questions regarding the MBA degree, and you can contact the MBA Admissions office with any questions specific to our timeline or process. Please note that the Cox School requires you to have either the GRE or GMAT exam to be considered for admission. For more information, visit the Meadows School website Next Steps Questions? Not sure which program fits your needs? Reach out to our team. Contact Us Get the Brochure SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter