Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events CESH | Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health Home About Research Education + Training Resources Software Technical Reports Code + Data Repository Consultation News Site Navigation Home About People Faculty Staff Doctoral students + Post docs Affiliates Our Areas of Expertise Evidence Based Practice Center Jobs Employment for non-US citizens Research Collaborations Full Catalog of Research Education + Training Resources Software Technical Reports Code + Data Repository Consultation News Software Are you looking for software to help you streamline and organize your systematic reviews? We've developed two free, open-source programs: Abstrackr helps you upload and organize the results of a literature search for a systematic review. It also makes it possible for your team to screen, organize, and manipulate all of your abstracts in one place. SRDR Plus (The Systematic Review Data Repository: Plus) is a tool for extracting, managing, and archiving data. It is an open and searchable archive of systematic reviews and their data. Click here to learn more about SRDR Plus. OpenMeta[Analyst] is an open-source, cross-platform, point and click tool to perform meta-analysis. Click below to start using these tools. Abstrackr Abstrackr is a free online tool to help you upload and organize the results of a literature search for a systematic review. It helps you and your team screen, organize, and manipulate all of your abstracts in one place. Visit SRDR The Systematic Review Data Repository is a tool for extracting and managing data. It is also an open and searchable archive of systematic reviews and their data. Visit OpenMeta[Analyst] OpenMeta[Analyst] is an open-source, cross-platform, point and click tool to perform advanced meta-analysis. Visit Resources Software Technical Reports Code + Data Repository Consultation Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health Brown University Box G-S121-8 School of Public Health Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top