Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Stop Video Stop Video Athletics Nothing unites the Pack like the excellence of our student-athletes. On the court, the field, the track and the diamond, NC State competes at the highest level. As an anchor of the legendary Atlantic Coast Conference, we have a long tradition of exciting athletics — and a lot of Pack pride. Whether you’re a player, a coach, a die-hard fan or a casual observer, you’re a part of our team. Athletics Central Are you a Wolfpack fan for life? Check out GoPack.com, our home for sports news, schedules, tickets, recaps and more. Visit GoPack.com We’re the Red and White From State NC State Athletics promotes team and individual success, makes scholarship and educational opportunities available to more than 550 student-athletes, and creates memorable experiences for Wolfpack fans. You probably know our football and basketball teams, but we have 21 Division I varsity programs that all raise the bar whenever they compete. NC State’s rich tradition of college athletics began soon after the school’s founding, when students organized the first football game in 1892. Since then, our teams have won national championships and countless Atlantic Coast Conference titles, built amazing rivalries and even sent athletes to the Olympic Games. The action happens in state-of-the-art multipurpose facilities like Carter-Finley Stadium and PNC Arena, as well as campus favorites like Reynolds Coliseum and Doak Field. For both elite athletes and passionate fans, NC State is where you can find your Pack. Keep Up With the Pack On game day and every other day, go behind the scenes of NC State sports by following @PackAthletics on social media. Follow Pack Athletics A hungry Pack on the hunt 🐺🐺🐺 … Open Honor and remember. #MemorialDay Open National. Champions. 🏆 Jaeda Daniel … Open Get in the Game Prefer to be part of the action yourself? NC State offers club and intramural sports in just about any sport you can think of — including cricket, ballroom dance, ultimate frisbee, sailing, ice hockey and Quidditch, to name just a few. With more than 40 club sports, more than 20 league sports and 20 special events every year, there’s something for everyone. No matter your skill level, you can join a team and find friends, stay fit and have fun while enjoying the thrill of competition. Discover NC State Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Raleigh, N.C. take the next step Apply Ready to start your journey with us? Find out what what you need to begin your application to NC State. Join the Pack Visit Want to see more of the campus you’ll call home? We offer in-depth virtual tours, or you can schedule an in-person visit. Come explore Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.