Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Public Health About Programs Apply Students Research News & Events Faculty & Staff Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate BSPHPublic Health Minor Masters MHA EMHA MPH MS Biostatistics Dual Programs Doctoral PhD Epidemiology and BiostatisticsPhD Social and Behavioral Sciences Graduate Certificate Population HealthHealth AnalyticsHealth Systems Leadership Interpreter Course Take Action Apply Now Explore Programs News & Events Contact Us Follow SPH Online Facebooktwitter Home School of Public Health Programs Masters - Dual Programs The University of Memphis values interdisciplinary collaboration, and the School of Public Health is pleased to offer dual degrees in Law (JD/MPH) and Pharmacy (PharmD/MPH), as well as collaborations with other fields, such as Audiology (AuD/MPH), Social Work (MSW/MPH), Psychology (PhD/MPH), and Anthropology (MA/MPH). Popular Programs JD/MPH A program of study leading to both a Master of Public Health (MPH) from the School of Public Health and a Juris Doctorate (JD) from the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law. The MPH, a 42-credit program, will allow 15 credits of appropriate law courses to be credited toward both MPH and JD degrees. MSW/MPH A program of study leading to both a Master of Social Work (MSW) and a Master of Public Health (MPH). Students may earn up to a maximum of fifteen hours of dual credit. The University of Memphis Graduate School encourages students of any discipline to initiate a dual degree. These programs allow up to 15 shared credit hours, allowing students to receive both degrees in a shorter time frame than pursuing each degree separately. Please contact the Graduate School for more information. Degree Requirements Applicants seeking admission to dual-degree studies must apply separately to each of the two collaborating programs and must meet the admissions requirements of both. Once both schools grant admission to the individual degree programs, the student may begin an integrated dual-degree program. Students who are enrolled in programs with terminal degrees (e.g., JD, PharmD, Optometry, PhD, MD) are not required to take the Graduate Record Exam (GRE) for admittance to the MPH program. Tuition and Fees For the most current information regarding tuition, visit the University & Student Business Services' Fee Chart. Contact Us Shirl Sharpe, MS Academic Services Coordinator II ssharpe@memphis.edu 901.678.1710 Christie Rakestraw Graduate School Admissions Counselor crakstrw@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/9/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.