Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Graduate Admission Tuition and Aid Events and Information Sessions Loyal Musketeer Scholarship Contact Us Xavier Home Graduate Admission Menu Tuition and Aid Events and Information Sessions Loyal Musketeer Scholarship Contact Us Start Your Graduate Journey Xavier offers more than 40 graduate programs across disciplines including health services administration, nursing, business and education. Our strong partnerships with Cincinnati’s top companies connect students to industry leaders, and our network of 65,000 Xavier alumni graduate ready to make a difference. Graduate Program Information Sessions Admission Process All graduate programs require an application and most require a graduate exam. Learn more about the unique requirements for each graduate program on their page. View Programs See all graduate programs to help grow your potential. View Graduate Programs Tuition & Aid Learn more about grants, loans, assistantships and tuition rates by college. Tuition Information Online Options Xavier offers a number of fully-online graduate programs, including Coaching, Montessori Education, Special Education and Nursing. Learn More about Xavier’s online graduate programs. Online Programs Take the Next Step Loading... Get More Information Office of the Graduate School Contact Us Tuition and Aid Graduate Program Events and Information Sessions All for one. U.S. News & World Report has recognized Xavier as one of the top 10 universities in the Midwest every year since 1994, including a no. 5 ranking in for 2020. Kiplinger’s Personal Finance ranks Xavier among the "100 Best Values in Private Colleges." The decision to press 'GO' was the hardest part. After that I hit the ground running and have never looked back. The Xavier brand speaks for itself- it's recognized both locally and nationally and allows you to get in and out in just two years. Eric Banks Development Researcher, Procter & Gamble Master of Business Administration, 2013 I enjoyed small class sizes where everybody knows your name. The faculty devoted time and cared about my academic success. A month before graduation, I was offered a promotion at TriHealth and within two years I became head of the Aquatics department. Maryam Mofatteh Aquatics Manager, TriHealth Fitness and Health Pavilion MEd in Sports Administration, 2015 Xavier provided me with the crucial knowledge and skills needed to become a disciplined, well-rounded, health-care professional whose ideas and influence will help create sustainable, positive change for all those we serve. Jon-Michael Williams Assistant Vice President, Regional Partnerships, Atrium Health Master of Health Services Administration, 2015 Xavier University Graduate Programs Xavier University Notice of Non-Discrimination Title IX is the federal civil rights law that prohibits discrimination based on sex in all federally funded education programs and activities. In compliance with Title IX, Xavier University does not discriminate based on sex in any education or activity, including admission and employment. Sex discrimination includes sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, stalking, harassment or discrimination based on pregnancy, parenting, sexual orientation and/or gender identity. Xavier University does not tolerate sex discrimination. If a student or employee believes they have experienced sex discrimination or has questions about Title IX, please contact Xavier’s Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Coordinator Kate Lawson at 332B Gallagher Student Center, 3800 Victory Parkway, Cincinnati, OH 45207, 513-745-3046, lawsonk1@xavier.edu or the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights at U.S. Dept. of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 400 Maryland Ave., SW, Washington, DC 20202, 800-421-3481, OCR@ed.gov. For free, confidential advocacy and support, contact Xavier’s Advocacy & Prevention Coordinator at 513-904-9013. Get More Information Office of the Graduate School Contact Us Tuition and Aid Graduate Program Events and Information Sessions Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram