Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Environmental Professional Training Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Environmental Professional Training Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Environmental Professional Training Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Environmental Professional Training Undergraduate Certificate Prepare for a career in professional environmental fields or as an environmental consultant with the Environmental Professional Training Undergraduate Certificate in Temple’s College of Science and Technology. Environmental consultants ensure that industries with impact on the environment—such as construction or waste management—are compliant with current laws and regulations. Whether you are interested in environmental science or geology, this 12-credit certificate program takes a deeper dive into field methods for studying and surveying land and water. As a student you will learn current regulations in environmental protection, how they are enforced and why they are in place. You’ll study field methods such as geophysical surveys, mapping techniques and stream flow analysis, and hazardous waste operations and emergency response training and certification. Open to current Earth and Environmental Science program students and environmental professionals, this certificate provides the fundamentals for career development for those seeking to guide or enforce environmental protection measures. Who might be interested? The Environmental Professional Training Undergraduate Certificate is ideal for Geology or Environmental Science majors, as well as those who currently work in related industries or as environmentalists. The curriculum lays the groundwork for how society impacts the environment and how it is protected, as well as training in current regulation certification and requirements. Credit Requirements The curriculum includes two required courses and two electives. Coursework is completed over 12 credit hours, and current undergraduate students must complete 24 prerequisite credits prior to entering the certificate program. Those students with professional backgrounds in earth and environmental science must have industry experience related to the certificate’s prerequisites. Current students pursuing academic degrees in programs outside of the College of Science and Technology may need approval before adding this certificate to their curriculum. Learn more about requirements for the Environmental Professional Training Undergraduate Certificate. Delivery Method All classes are held in person on Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia. Classes & Curriculum Students are required to complete four courses, including Groundwater Hydrology, HAZWOPER Training and the Regulatory Environment, and Introduction to Field Methods in the Earth and Environmental Sciences. Learn more about required courses for the Environmental Professional Training Undergraduate Certificate. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Nicholas Davatzes, associate professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science, is a program contact for the Environmental Professional Training Undergraduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-2319 Email: nicholas.davatzes@temple.edu Laura Toran, professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science, is a program contact for the Environmental Professional Training Undergraduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-2352 Email: altd@temple.edu Allison R. Tumarkin-Deratzian, associate professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science, is a program contact for the Environmental Professional Training Undergraduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-2321 Email: altd@temple.edu Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-EPT-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Environmental Professional Training Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info