Skip to main content ISU Index Menu ISU News Store Contact Us Offices News Search form Search Main menu Main Menu Content by Category Business and Industry Food, Nutrition and Health Community Economic Development Home and Family Crops Kids and Teens-4-H Environment Livestock Farm Management Yard and Garden Finances STEM Local Foods Home Contact Archived News Multi-Media Releases You are here Home Fall Master Gardener Training Offered as Hybrid Course Training will benefit Iowans wanting to deepen their understanding of horticulture May 27, 2022, 9:20 am | Alicia Herzog AMES, Iowa – The application window is opening June 3 for this year’s Fall Master Gardener training cohort, which will be offered in 66 counties or extension regions. “Throughout the pandemic, many of our programs have been forced into virtual formats and participants have missed out on peer-to-peer interactions,” said Alicia Herzog, Master Gardener state coordinator with Iowa State University Extension and Outreach. “We find immense value in the learning that happens when our participants interact with each other, their county extension and outreach staff, and experts in their local communities. We’re happy to be able to offer the best of both worlds with this hybrid format.” Counties offering fall training include: Adair, Appanoose, Benton, Black Hawk, Boone, Bremer, Buchanan, Butler, Calhoun, Cass, Cerro Gordo, Chickasaw, Clinton, Crawford, Dallas, Davis, Delaware, Des Moines, Dubuque, Fayette, Floyd, Franklin, Fremont, Guthrie, Hamilton, Hancock, Hardin, Howard, Ida, Jasper, Jefferson, Johnson, Keokuk, Kossuth, Linn, Louisa, Lucas, Madison, Mahaska, Marion, Marshall, Mills, Mitchell, Monona, Monroe, Muscatine, Page, Pocahontas, Polk, Pottawattamie, Poweshiek, Sac, Scott, Story, Tama, Union, Van Buren, Wapello, Washington, Wayne, Webster, Winnebago, Winneshiek, Woodbury, Worth and Wright. Iowans wishing to complete Master Gardener training register with their county extension office, participate in online learning modules, and attend at least four in-person training sessions organized by their county office. After completing the course, Master Gardener interns complete a 40-hour internship in their training county, sharing their knowledge and skills with the community. Applicants have from June 3 until July 8 to apply for the fall session. Training for the fall session begins Aug. 22. Learn more about the program online or through your local ISU Extension and Outreach Master Gardener coordinator. Local extension staff can help anyone with questions about joining Master Gardener training this year, including details of when and where in-person meetings will take place in their county or extension region. Iowa State has offered Master Gardener training for over 40 years, engaging more than 15,000 people in learning about gardening best practices. Master Gardener volunteers add value to their communities by completing projects such as community beautification, tending donation gardens and presenting public programs. For more information, Herzog can be reached at 515-294-3627 or aherzog@iastate.edu. Shareable photo: Master Gardener presentation. Category: Food, Nutrition and Health, Yard and Garden, Local Foods About the Authors: Alicia Herzog Master Gardener Program Coordinator 515-294-3627 aherzog@iastate.edu Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. 2150 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2031 (800) 262-3804 Iowa State University | Policies State & National Extension Partners Site Index | Site Map Locate a County Office Social Media Directory Blogs Ask a Question Hotlines Subscribe to our News Feeds Facebook Instagram Linked In Pinterest Twitter YouTube