Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022 Menu Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues Baylor>Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022>Alumni News & Notes>Class Notes>1980s 1980s Stephen R. Bates, BS ’81 of Salt Lake City and Rebecca L. Bates, MSEd ’86, of Mammoth Lakes, CA, established the Stephen Bates and Rebecca Bates Four Corners Endowed Scholarship, which supports Baylor students. Smith A. Brownlie III, BBA ’81, of Fort Worth established the Frances Mary Brownlie Endowed Scholarship Fund in Accounting in honor of his mother Frances Mary Brownlie. The scholarship supports accounting students. Roland Garcia, BBA ’81, was named to the 2022 edition of The Best Lawyers in America in the area of government relations practice. The Best Lawyers list is entirely based on peer review and designed to capture the consensus of leading lawyers in the same area and practice. Garcia was also recognized as a Texas Super Lawyer in business litigation. Terry Cargill, BBA ’82, and Barbara Cargill, BSEd ’82, of Conroe, TX, established the Barbara and Terry Cargill Endowed Scholarship, which supports students enrolled in the School of Education. Melody Howard Yuhn, BS ’83 of Fredericksburg, TX, established the Pay It Forward Endowed Scholarship, a Hord Challenge Scholarship, which supports students enrolled in the School of Engineering and Computer Science. Stacy Edick, BA ’84, authored Charleston Conundrum [Wild Hawk Press, 2022] under the pen name Stacy Wilder. A cozy mystery, it is her first novel and the initial book in the Conundrum series. It is available on Amazon. Jill Manning, BBA ’84, and Chris Manning, BBA ’84, of Dallas established the Christopher P. and Jill S. Manning Athletic Endowed Scholarship, which supports Baylor student-athletes. C. Mark Wade, BBA ’84, authored God in the Everyday: A 14-Week Guide Toward Hope, Purpose, and Fulfillment [Choose Commitment Ministries, 2021], which was inspired by his faith journey. It is an easy-to-use, day-by-day, scripture-rich guide with practicality and a spiritual depth that reaches readers where God can most effectively change their lives: in their daily time with the Lord. Learn more at choosecommitment.org. Allin Means, BA ’86, is among 85 St. Louis-area educators to receive Emerson’s Excellence in Teaching awards. The awards recognize area educators — from kindergarten teachers to college professors — for their achievements and dedication to the education field and their vital role in shaping students’ lives. The annual Excellence in Teaching Awards program is sponsored by Emerson, a St. Louis-based diversified global manufacturer and technology leader. Jeff Wooley, BBA ’86, and Debbie Wooley, BS ’87, of Woodway, TX, established the Wooley Family Endowed Scholarship in Truett Seminary for God’s glory and in honor of First Methodist Church Waco and the efforts of its lead pastor Rev. Ryan Barnett, ABC ’18. The scholarship supports Truett Seminary students. Shelby Davidson, MPPA ’87, completed the Certificate in Biblical Counseling program at Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary in Wake Forest, NC. He is currently the principal of Van [TX] Middle School and pastor of New Beginnings Community Church near Van. Ellen Holman, BBA ’88, of Dallas established The Ellen L. Holman Endowed Scholarship Fund in Information Systems, which supports Baylor information systems majors. Mark P. Yablon, BBA ’88, joined Houston-based Guerra | Days Law Group PLLC as a litigation attorney. He has a statewide practice focused on entrepreneurs dealing with civil litigation (plaintiffs and defendants), real estate, business/family law, bankruptcy and probate. Contact at markyablon@gmail.com. Bill Baker, BBA ’89, MBA ’92, of Dallas established the Donna DuPuy Baker Endowed Scholarship in Economics in honor of his wife Donna DuPuy Baker, BBA ’88. The scholarship supports women in business at Baylor. Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues