Menu Biomedical Graduate Studies About Overview Facts-at-a-Glance Faculty Members Academic Structure BGS Contacts News & Events Information For... Prospective Students Current Students Overview New Students (2022) Faculty Alumni & Friends Staff Admissions Overview PhD Application Information Diversity and Inclusivity Admissions FAQs Additional Information for Applicants Diversity & Outreach IDEAL (Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and Learner) Research Combating Racial Inequities Committee (CRIC) Recruitment Initiatives Community Outreach Student Support Programs BGS PhD Programs Combined Degree Programs Certificate Options for PhD Students Undergraduate and Postbac Programs Resources Academic Information Overview Spring 2022 Awards and Honors Expectations of Students Professional Skills RCR and SRR Training Research Resources and Policies Student Funding Student Organizations Training Grants and Fellowships Wellness, Health, and Safety Career Development BGS Career Development Career Paths Mentorship Program Search Site Cell & Molecular Biology Graduate Group Nicole Aiello, Stanger lab CAMB Home About Overview Administration Handbook Programs CB About Academics Faculty CPM About Penn Cell Biology Academics Faculty DSRB About Academics Faculty G&E About Academics Faculty GTV About Academics Faculty MVP About Academics Faculty Students Current Students Graduates Student Publications Faculty Academics Overview CAMB Courses PhD Curriculum Combined Degree Curriculum Preliminary Examination Dissertation Phase Other Program Information Admissions Resources Overview Forms News & Events Calendar Seminar Series News COVID-19 Information Connect with CAMB: Welcome to CAMB Announcements Congratulations to our 2022 Graduates! The BGS Graduation Ceremony is May 16, 2022 at 1:30pm. Please join us in celebrating our graduates by checking out our graduate's profiles, and by logging in to watch the live stream of the ceremony on Monday May 16. Check out Hub@Penn - an easy way for Penn students to find and connect with university support resources Please see CAMB's COVID-19 page for current guidelines. From the Chair The Cell and Molecular Biology Graduate Group (CAMB) is an interdisciplinary graduate program, providing rigorous training in modern cell and molecular biology. Within this integrated program are six discipline areas: Cancer Biology (CB); Cell Biology, Physiology, and Metabolism (CPM); Developmental, Stem Cell, and Regenerative Biology (DSRB); Genetics and Epigenetics (G&E); Gene Therapy and Vaccines (GTV); and Microbiology, Virology, and Parasitology (MVP). Program faculty include 407 scientists from the Perelman School of Medicine, the Schools of Arts and Sciences, Dental Medicine, Veterinary Medicine, the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, and the Wistar Institute. The research efforts of these extraordinary scientists are diverse in their focus, experimental system, methodology, and represent the leading edge of basic and translational biomedical science. Currently, 368 graduate students from colleges and universities around the nation and the world are enrolled in the program. Students select one discipline area based on their scientific interests, yet have access to the full breadth of curricular and research opportunities provided by our large and diverse program. Our students participate in core courses in cell and molecular biology, specialized coursework in one or more discipline areas, and original hypothesis-driven thesis research. Upon completion of the PhD, they pursue successful research careers at top academic institutions, in the biotech and pharmaceutical industries, and in other biomedicine-related career paths. Our mission is to provide an exceptional mentored training experience to every student, providing a foundation for successful careers as leaders in biomedical research. We welcome prospective students who are dedicated to the search for new knowledge. Daniel S. Kessler, PhD (he/him/his) Chair, Cell and Molecular Biology Graduate Group <br /> Upcoming CAMB Events View Calendar CAMB Combined Degree Prelims Thursday, June 2, 2022 | All Day Office Hours: Craig Bassing Thursday, June 2, 2022 | 10:00am 4054 Colket Building Latest from @CAMBUpenn Follow @CAMBUpenn @CAMBUPENN | May 31 RT @WoodleyBrooks: After many wonderful years of training in the Dang lab, today marks my last day. I am especially thankful for the m… https://t.co/UJuRGrKsYd @CAMBUPENN | May 30 RT @joangelanouel: Look at these brilliant PhD candidates!! Super proud GTVer! #GTV @CAMBUpenn https://t.co/fOQGWh3jC8 © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team. Close Menu CAMB Home About Close Menu Overview Administration Handbook Programs Close Menu CB Close Menu About Academics Faculty CPM Close Menu About Penn Cell Biology Academics Faculty DSRB Close Menu About Academics Faculty G&E Close Menu About Academics Faculty GTV Close Menu About Academics Faculty MVP Close Menu About Academics Faculty Students Close Menu Current Students Graduates Student Publications Faculty Academics Close Menu Overview CAMB Courses PhD Curriculum Combined Degree Curriculum Preliminary Examination Dissertation Phase Other Program Information Admissions Resources Close Menu Overview Forms News & Events Close Menu Calendar Seminar Series News COVID-19 Information Connect with CAMB: Go to Biomedical Graduate Studies