Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Course Materials Course Materials Our Libraries offer services and tools that help instructors deliver and students access course materials. Physical course reserves provide copies of course-assigned textbooks, DVDs, and various resources available for check-out in the library, while our eTextbook program identifies no-cost eBooks and electronic resources assigned as course materials. We will work with instructors to locate and support accessible materials for your in-person and online courses. Learn more at Course Reserves for Faculty and eTextbook Information for Instructors. Course Material Resources Course Reserves Course instructors can place physical FSU Library books and media materials and/or materials from their personal collection on course reserve so that students in their classes can freely check them out for short periods of time while in the library. We are also able to place electronic materials, such as eBooks, streaming videos, and scans of academic articles, on eReserve so students are able to easily access them via your Canvas site. To learn more about our course reserve services, please see: Course Reserves Information for Faculty Course Reserves Information for Students Course Reserves Request Form (Instructors only) Search Course Reserves eTextbooks Library-licensed material expands the amount of materials available for higher-level coursework and complements other OER materials. Many faculty at FSU have opted to adopt e-books, journal articles, videos, images, and other digital resources from our collection. Our eTextbook Search allows search by book title, instructor’s last name, or course code to see if your text is available as an eBook purchased by the Libraries. To learn more about our eTextbooks Program, please see: eTextbook Search eTextbook Information for Instructors Linking to eResources page Copyright There are a number of important factors to consider when attempting to avoid copyright infringement while using copyrighted materials in the classroom. Please visit our Copyright Resources research guide to learn more about the basics of using copyrighted materials in teaching, the Technology, Education and Copyright Harmonization Act, whether copyrighted content usage falls under Fair Use, and Creative Commons licensing. For more information on copyright, please see: Copyright Resources Research Guide Libraries’ Copyright FAQ Fair Use and Creative Commons Open Educational Resources (OER) Open educational resources (OER) are freely-accessible, openly licensed textbooks, media, and other digital assets that are useful for teaching and learning. OER can be reused, customized, and widely shared by others. Our top suggestions for open textbooks include Openstax, Open Textbook Library, OER Commons, and BC Campus OpenEd. Don’t use a standalone textbook? Many instructors choose to use a mix of open resources to support their curriculum instead of just one open textbook. FSU Libraries is committed to developing open and affordable solutions that will ease the burden of textbook costs. Affordable course materials are going to be more important to students than ever. To find out more about affordability initative, please see: FSU Libraries Open and Affordable Textbook Initiative Alternative Textbook Grants Accessibility & Course Materials FSU Libraries strives to provide equal access to resources and services through provision of reasonable accommodations for students, staff, and faculty with disabilities. To find out more about our accessibility services, please see: Accessible Materials & Services Course Materials Course Reserve Information for Students Course Reserves Search eTextbooks Search eTextbook Information for Instructors Open and Affordable Textbook Initiative About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!