Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close HOME Admission Apply Questbridge Applicants In This Section Admission Overview Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile QuestBridge Applicants Boston College is excited to be a part of QuestBridge, a highly respected nonprofit program that helps high-achieving, low-income students gain admission and scholarships to the country’s top-ranked colleges and universities. This partnership aligns with Boston College's values as a Jesuit, Catholic university. Interested students can fill out the QuestBridge application, at questbridge.org, which opens in late summer prior to a student’s senior year of high school. Contact Danielle Wells Associate Director, Office of Undergraduate Admission 617-552-3100 danielle.wells@bc.edu Visit Our Questbridge Site top 20 in the Nation Graduation rate among national universities for Pell Grant recipients (low-income students) U.S. News & World Report Match Requirements Print Deadline: November 1 The following items are required in addition to the QuestBridge Application. Boston College QuestBridge Questionnaire Upon receiving your National College Match Application, you will receive instructions to complete the Boston College QuestBridge Questionnaire. This questionnaire is required in order for us to complete your application. Please note that as part of the QuestBridge Questionnaire, those applying through the National College Match will be required to submit the Boston College Writing Supplement. These questions can be found here. High School Transcript Please have your high school counselor submit your official transcripts to bcapplicant@bc.edu. If your counselor uploaded your transcript as part of your National College Match application, you do not need to resubmit it. Standardized Testing Boston College has adopted a test-optional policy for first year applicants during the 2021-22 admission cycle. Learn more here. Students who are unable to submit standardized test results, or who choose not to, will not be disadvantaged in our selection process. In reviewing applications that do not include standardized test results, the Admission Committee will place greater emphasis on other required application credentials including academic performance, rigor of coursework, placement in class, personal statements, recommendations, and co-curricular involvement. For those students who would like to submit standardized testing results, we accept the ACT or SAT and don't require any Optional Writing portion. If you submit multiple scores, we will superscore the tests for our evaluation and we will use the scores as one component in our holistic review of applications. If sending official scores from a testing agency, do NOT use the rush reporting service. Boston College will accept self-reported ACT or SAT test scores for QuestBridge students participating in the National College Match process only. For those who choose to submit test scores, official ACT or SAT score reports will be required prior to enrolling at Boston College. If the cost of sending test scores from the ACT or College Board would present a financial burden, please have your guidance or college counselor email a copy of your score report to bcapplicant@bc.edu. We also accept test scores that are reported on official high school transcripts. Students who wish to further quantify their academic successes are welcome to note non-required credentials such as Advanced Placement scores or predicted IB scores (if previously taken). SAT code: 3083 ACT code: 1788 Optional Credentials for the Arts Artistic portfolios can be submitted through SlideRoom. As a QuestBridge applicant, please select the QuestBridge category followed by the application round and corresponding artistic submission for studio art, music, and/or theater. If you are applying as part of the National College Match, please select the QuestBridge Early Decision I round for your artistic submission. Please note that only students who intend to major in Studio Art can submit artistic samples/portfolios through SlideRoom. If not majoring in Studio Art, please highlight any art involvement (such as photography, painting, drawing, ceramics, digital media, and video) within the Activities or Additional Information sections of the QuestBridge Application or the Common Application. Students with a background in theatre and/or music who plan to be involved in music and theater productions at Boston College are invited to showcase their talents by submitting artistic samples via SlideRoom, regardless of their intended major. If you do not intend to formally pursue these artistic talents at Boston College, but you would like to tell us about past experiences you've had in the arts, we encourage you to do so within the Activities or Additional Information sections of the QuestBridge Application or the Common Application. All materials must be received via SlideRoom by November 1 for QuestBridge National College Match candidates and Early Decision I candidates. For Early Decision II and Regular Decision candidates, the deadline is January 1. Submissions received after these dates will not be reviewed. Please note that there is a $5 fee to submit your artistic samples. Students applying as QuestBridge National College Match applicants with Boston College will automatically be reimbursed the $5 submission fee. Students applying outside of the Match process via Early Decision II and Regular Decision may request a fee waiver by emailing Cindy Córdova (cordovac@bc.edu) if the fee poses a financial hardship. FAFSA 2022–2023 FAFSA FAFSA code: 002128 Available: October 1. Match applicants must complete the FAFSA by November 1. U.S. Citizens and Eligible Non-Citizens. Canadian and other international students do not complete the FAFSA. Visit the FAFSA website Learn more about eligible non-citizen status Please note that undocumented student applicants (with or without DACA status) will not need to submit the FAFSA. CSS Profile CSS code: 3083 Available: October 1 Select Early Decision as your admission application type. If your parents own a business or farm: Submit the CSS Profile Business/Farm Supplement. If your parents are divorced or separated: Both of your biological/adoptive parents must complete their own CSS Profile with different log-in credentials. It is highly recommended that the student and custodial parent start the CSS Profile first. After your custodial parent completes the CSS Profile, you'll be asked to provide an email address for your noncustodial parent. Your noncustodial parent will then receive an email from the College Board with instructions on how to complete their CSS Profile online. If you don't have any contact with your noncustodial parent, please submit the noncustodial parent waiver form below. Download the noncustodial parent waiver petition 2020 Federal Tax Returns You may securely upload your required tax returns with all schedules, attachments, and W-2 forms to bc.edu/finaidupload If you prefer to submit your documents by mail, please send them to: Boston College Financial Aid Processing Center P.O. Box 1482 Portsmouth, NH 03802 Please note, however, that it can take up to two weeks to receive mailed documents, which may delay our response. Be sure to include the student's Eagle ID number on all correspondence to ensure all documents will be linked to the student's financial aid file. If your parents own or operate a business, partnership or corporation, include a copy of the appropriate 2020 business, partnership or corporate tax returns. If your parents are divorced or separated, both biological parents must separately submit a signed copy of their 2020 federal income tax return, including all schedules, W-2s, 1099s, and any other earnings statements used to file the federal income tax return. The Match Process Non-Finalists, Non-Match Finalists & Non-Participating Finalists Financial Aid Finalists who choose to rank Boston College in QuestBridge’s National College Match apply to Boston College through Early Decision I, submitting their application and all supporting documents by November 1st. Applicants who choose this option are considered for a match with Boston College, which would include an official binding offer of admission. Finalists who match with Boston College will be notified of their admission decision and scholarship award by early December. Finalists who don’t match with Boston College, or a binding college partner, will have their application automatically moved to the Regular Decision application pool. Students must also fill out the Boston College Applicant Verification form, by January 1st, to indicate if they are interested in remaining a candidate for admission to BC through Regular Decision or if they would like to move their application to the Early Decision II application pool. Please note that Early Decision II is a binding admission process and also requires applicants to submit the Early Decision Agreement form. Students who are no longer interested in being considered for admission to Boston College may request to have their application withdrawn via the Applicant Verification Form or by email. Any finalist that matches with a partner school through a binding Early Decision commitment, will be automatically withdrawn. Non-Finalists Students who are not selected as a QuestBridge Finalist may still apply to BC through Early Decision I, Early Decision II, or Regular Decision through the Common Application. Please visit the QuestBridge Non-Finalists page for more information. Non-Match Finalists Finalists who did not match with Boston College through the National College Match, nor with any other binding partner school, are eligible to be considered via Early Decision II or Regular Decision. These students must fill out the Boston College Applicant Verification form by January 1st. Please note that Early Decision II is a binding admission process and also requires applicants to submit the Early Decision Agreement form. Non-Participating Finalists QuestBridge Finalists who choose not to participate in the National College Match process may apply to BC through Early Decision I, Early Decision II, or Regular Decision. You are encouraged to submit the Common Application with the Boston College Supplemental Essay. However, you may reuse one of your QuestBridge essays for the Common Application essay. More About Early Decision Early Decision Agreement Form Boston College is dedicated to meeting 100% of demonstrated financial need for all admitted students that are United States citizens and eligible non-citizens. All QuestBridge National College Match applicants to Boston College will be considered for the Match Scholarship provided they submit the FAFSA (Code: 002128), CSS/Financial Aid Profile (Code: 3083), and federal income tax returns. QuestBridge students not participating in the match process at Boston College will be considered for need-based aid, provided they submit the FAFSA (Code: 002128), CSS/Financial Aid Profile (Code: 3083), and federal income tax returns. If you would like to be considered for the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program, Boston College’s academic merit-based scholarship program, you must submit your Early Decision or Regular Decision application by November 1. All applicants who submit their application by this date are automatically considered. Options Following The Match Process Early Decision II Finalists who don't match with Boston College, or a binding college partner, can be considered for Early Decision II. If you're interested in this option, you must submit the Boston College Applicant Verification form through your Applicant Status Portal by January 1. Note that this is a binding admission process and also requires applicants to complete the Early Decision Agreement form, which will be provided to you within your Applicant Status Portal, once you confirm that you would like to be moved to our Early Decision II review process. More About Early Decision Early Decision Agreement Form Regular Decision Any finalist who doesn't match with Boston College will automatically be moved to the Regular Decision applicant pool. Finalists interested in remaining a candidate for admission must submit the Boston College Applicant Verification form by January 1. If you no longer wish to be considered for admission to Boston College and want your application withdrawn, contact the Office of Undergraduate Admission. Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Print Open All Close All Applying Should I select Early Decision or Regular Decision when applying to Boston College to be considered for the National College Match? Please select Early Decision under Entry Term by November 1 to be considered for the College Match process. What happens after you receive my application from QuestBridge? Once we receive your application, you’ll receive an email with your login credentials for your Applicant Status Portal, which will allow you to see documents that have been received and those that are pending. Are there any other documents that I need to submit in addition to my completed QuestBridge application? For students participating in the National College Match, you will be required to complete the Boston College QuestBridge Questionnaire. If you participate in the Match process and don't match with Boston College, you will be asked to complete the Boston College Applicant Verification Form. We'll provide you access to these forms upon receiving your application and these forms are required to complete your application. Are fee waivers provided for the CSS Profile? Please see your counselor at your high school regarding testing and financial aid document fee waivers. Are interviews required or available as part of the College Match Process for QuestBridge applicants? Interviews are not part of our evaluation process and thus neither available nor required for QuestBridge applicants. Do I qualify to apply for the QuestBridge National College Match at BC if I am an international citizen? Boston College is unable to consider international citizens studying in the U.S. for the National College Match. Can undocumented/DACA students apply to the QuestBridge National College Match at BC? Yes, we will consider undocumented students (with or without DACA status) for the Match process, independent of their citizenship status. Will you accept self-reported test scores as part of my application? Boston College will be test-optional for the 2021-22 admission cycle. Therefore, students will have the option to determine if they would like to submit their test scores or not. Students who are unable to submit standardized test results, or who choose not to, will not be disadvantaged in our selection process. For those that would still like to submit their test scores, we will only accept self-reported ACT or SAT test scores for QuestBridge students participating in the National College Match process. Note that, for those who choose to self-report their scores, official ACT or SAT score reports will be required prior to enrolling at Boston College. Do you offer fly-in programs for prospective applicants? Unfortunately, we don't offer fly-in programs for prospective students, but you can connect with us in these ways: Sign up for our mailing list to receive more information about BC and upcoming webinars. Register for one of our Eagle Eye Campus Visits, Campus Tours, or Conversations with a Current Student. Connect with one of our QuestBridge Scholars with your questions about BC. Sign Up for Our Mailing List Schedule a Visit Contact the BC QuestBridge Scholars Network Will BC accept the QuestBridge application in lieu of the Common Application? For the National College Match, we accept only the QuestBridge Application. For students applying outside of the Match process, we require that you submit the Common Application. The Match Process Is the QuestBridge Match Process binding? Yes, this process is binding—meaning that you will be expected to enroll at Boston College if selected through the Match process. You will also be required to withdraw your applications from all other colleges and universities to which you have applied. How many students will BC select through the Match Process? For the 2020-2021 application cycle, Boston College selected 50 students through the National College Match Process. Is off-campus housing covered by the scholarship? As part of the Match Scholarship, Boston College will provide four years of on-campus housing. Therefore, off-campus housing is not covered. Which financial aid documents are necessary if I ranked BC through the National College Match process? We require both the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and the CSS Profile (including the Noncustodial Parent Statement, if necessary). BC's FAFSA code is 002128 and CSS Profile code is 3083. In addition, we also require 2020 Federal Tax Returns. The priority filing date is November 1. Please note that undocumented student applicants (with or without DACA status) will not need to submit the FAFSA. You may securely upload your documents to: bc.edu/finaidupload If you prefer to submit your documents by mail, please send them to: Boston College Financial Aid Processing Center P.O. Box 1482 Portsmouth, NH 03802 Non-Match Finalists and Non-Participating Finalists I’m a QuestBridge finalist who ranked Boston College for the National College Match, but I didn't match with BC. What happens to my application? Students who aren't selected as part of the Match process with Boston College will have their status changed to Non-Match Finalist, and their application will automatically be considered in the Regular Decision applicant pool. All Non-Match Finalists interested in remaining a candidate for admission must submit the Boston College Applicant Verification form by January 1. Students may also request to be considered for Early Decision II. Please note that since this is a binding admission process, students will also be required to submit the Early Decision Agreement form. More About Early Decision Early Decision Agreement Form If I want to be considered for Early Decision II, what are my next steps? Finalists who don’t match with Boston College can be considered for Early Decision II. Finalists interested in this option must submit the Boston College Applicant Verification form by January 1. Please note that since this is a binding admission process, you must also complete the Early Decision Agreement form. Therefore, we encourage you to review our Early Decision policy. Do I need to complete the Common Application to be considered for admission to Boston College if I was not selected through the College Match process? No, you don’t have to complete the Common Application to be considered. We will simply move your QuestBridge application to our Regular Decision pool or you may request to be moved to our Early Decision II pool. I didn’t match through the College Match process, and I no longer want to be considered for admission to Boston College. What are my next steps? Please email bcapplicant@bc.edu to have your application withdrawn. If I don’t participate in the Match process or if I'm not named a finalist, may I still apply to be considered for admission at Boston College? Yes! QuestBridge finalists who don’t participate in the match process with Boston College (non-participating finalists) or those QuestBridge applicants who are not named a finalist (non-finalists) will be required to submit the Common Application and Boston College Supplemental Essay. For non-finalists, please visit the QuestBridge Non-Finalists page for more information. Students can apply to Boston College through Early Decision I, Early Decision II, or Regular Decision. Please review our Early Decision policy. Financial Aid Who should I contact with any financial aid related questions? Please email your Financial Aid Advisor, assigned by the first letter of your last name, with any specific questions. How can I track my financial aid status? Once we receive your application, you'll receive an email with your login credentials for your applicant portal. Upon logging in, you'll see documents that have been received and those that are pending. What will my financial aid package look like if I’m selected through the Match process? No parental contribution or student loans will be expected toward the cost of attendance for Boston College Match Scholarship recipients. You will be expected to contribute earnings from summer employment and a Federal Work Study job depending upon eligibility. You can view more details here. How are my travel costs to/from Boston College accounted for? Boston College considers the average expense of travelling to and from campus (based on geography) and includes this as part of the Cost of Attendance, which is then used to determine a student's financial need and amount of need-based financial aid. Therefore, no separate funding is provided to students for travel expenses. What is Federal work-study and how do I obtain a job? Federal Work-Study is a type of self-help financial aid that is awarded based on financial need. Students may earn up to the amount awarded through their work-study position. It is important to note that funds earned from a work-study position are paid directly to the student and do not reduce the student account bill. Work-study positions are typically posted just before the start of the fall semester. Students can search the job database through the Student Services Student Employment web page at www.bc.edu/studentemployment. Are there any merit awards that I can qualify for as a non-finalist or non-participating finalist? The Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program is an academic merit-based scholarship program, covering full tuition for 18 qualified applicants each year. There’s no separate application to be considered —both Early Decision and Regular Decision candidates are eligible for scholarship consideration as long as their completed application is submitted by the November 1 priority scholarship deadline. For non-finalists/non-participating finalists interested in being considered for the Gabelli Presidential Scholarship, you will be required to submit the Common Application. How would outside scholarships impact my Match scholarship or aid award at Boston College? All students are encouraged to seek out outside scholarships to help with the cost of their education. To ensure the outside scholarship will benefit the student as much as possible, it is our policy to first replace the loan, if applicable, and work-study portion of the student’s BC financial aid package; however, total grant funding (including outside scholarships) cannot exceed the student’s total demonstrated institutional need. If the amount of outside scholarship received exceeds the amount of loan and work-study, then the student’s BC grant funds are reduced to meet their demonstrated institutional need. Unearned funding such as state grants reduce BC grant funds dollar-for-dollar within the financial aid package. If I’m not admitted through the Match process, what kind of financial aid is available? Boston College is dedicated to meeting the full demonstrated need of all United States citizens and eligible non-citizens that apply for financial aid. More About Financial Aid Support/Resources Does Boston College have a QuestBridge Scholars Network (QSN) chapter? Founded in 2021, the Boston College QuestBridge Scholars Network Chapter, EagleBridge, provides a welcoming and supportive community for its members. QuestBridge Scholars can engage in chapter activities, apply for leadership positions, and participate in opportunities offered nationwide through QuestBridge, including access to QuestBridge Alumni Association resources. EagleBridge’s mission is to compassionately serve the QuestBridge community at Boston College by partnering with several offices and student organizations on campus that work directly with first-year, low-income students to form an understanding and robust community for historically underrepresented students. A budding chapter, EagleBridge’s cornerstone is mentorship, social activities, and service opportunities. In addition to group activities, there are always opportunities for underclassmen to get involved in chapter leadership and initiatives. Each year, newly appointed chapter leaders and Executive Board members work together to plan new programming to ensure chapter members feel welcomed and engaged. Contact: EagleBridge Instagram: eaglebridge_qsn Are only students admitted through the National College Match eligible to be a part of EagleBridge? Absolutely not! Any student, whether associated with QuestBridge or not, who shares a similar interest, background, or vision is welcome to be a part of EagleBridge. What other kind of support services are there for students that are the first in their family to attend college, who hail from limited financial means, and/or who are coming from an underrepresented ethnic/cultural group? Fostering diversity and accessibility on campus is accomplished through partnerships with multiple campus organizations, such as the Gateway Scholars Program, Learning to Learn Office, McNair Scholars Program, Montserrat Office, and Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center. Additionally, Boston College offers various mentoring and retreat programs through our Center for Student Formation and the Office of First Year Experience, as well as residential communities, designed to welcome and support first year students. More About Diversity on Campus Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College