Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Student Life Date June 30, 2021 2021-06-30 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Summer Experiences Every May, Brown students leave the classrooms of College Hill behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — from internships and fellowships to research projects and entrepreneurial startups. Summer Experiences Justin Li: Keeping Pride alive in Providence during a challenging year Brown-RISD dual degree student Justin Li led efforts to revive Pride Month activities in Rhode Island this year after challenges related to COVID-19 threatened to cancel the longstanding tradition. Brown-RISD dual degree student Justin Li speaks with an attendee of Providence's Pride parade, which was held on Saturday, June 26. Li led efforts to plan this year's parade. All photos: Nick Dentamaro / OUC PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — When Justin Li learned that Providence’s annual Pride Month festivities were being cancelled this year due in part to challenges arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, he wasn’t surprised. “After over a year of going through the pandemic, it was definitely not a shocker that this was being cancelled, too,” said Li, a rising sophomore in the Brown-RISD dual degree program. But Li wasn’t quite ready to give up on the possibility of upholding this longstanding tradition in a year when rekindling community connections seemed more important than ever. “Pride Month is an incredibly important time for the LGBTQ community to find space for one another, congregate and celebrate,” he said. “But it’s particularly significant when we know that LGBTQ people — especially those who are Black, Indigenous and people of color — have been disproportionately affected by the pandemic, because they are more likely to experience issues such as homelessness, incarceration and unemployment.” So Li resolved to revive the month-long series, planning events that were open to the greater Rhode Island community throughout the month of June — including virtual workshops led by Brown and RISD student volunteers, virtual performances by local LGBTQ artists, and the culminating Pride parade, which was held in downtown Providence on Saturday, June 26. He brought together roughly a dozen Brown student volunteers to organize the month’s events, co-lead virtual community workshops, conduct outreach in the Providence community, and develop health and safety protocols that adhered to Rhode Island’s current pandemic public health guidance. “We have really been working towards making sure that everything is safe and that the greater community is engaged — from local businesses to performers to organizations,” he said. 1 of 4 Participants in this year's Pride parade in Providence pick up rainbow-themed items outside of Brown's Van Wickle Gates, which marked the beginning of this year's parade route. 2 of 4 Brown-RISD dual degree student Justin Li listens to a speaker at Providence's Pride Parade, held Saturday, June 26. Li led efforts to organize this year's event, which was in danger of cancellation due in part to the pandemic. 3 of 4 Participants in this year's Pride parade marched from the Van Wickle Gates across the pedestrian bridge in Downtown Providence. 4 of 4 Li embraces a fellow participant at this year's Providence Pride parade, which he led efforts to organize. Li also sought advice from mentors at the Brown Center for Students of Color and RISD’s Office of International Student Engagement, as well as from board members of Rhode Island Pride, the local nonprofit that typically runs the event. “Everyone that I’ve encountered has been super supportive, caring and understanding when discussing the importance of Pride — and especially important this year,” he said. Li has brought careful attention to detail to his work adapting Pride Month traditions to meet the demands of a uniquely challenging year, said Sage Morgan-Hubbard, assistant director of the BCSC, who mentored Li while he planned these community events. "I am so impressed with the passion and leadership Justin has brought to this project,” she said. “Here at the BCSC, we love to see such motivated students making a difference in our communities on campus and beyond." Li’s Pride Month leadership was not his first foray into community-based LGBTQ advocacy. When he was 15, Li — who hails from Vancouver, Canada — founded the Love to All Project, a global organization that provides accessible resources, education and mentorship opportunities to LGBTQ adolescents across the world. Li said that since its founding three years ago, the Love to All Project has grown to become the world’s largest youth-led nonprofit organization, with LGBTQ students and allies running chapters in community-based organizations across the United States and in 20 countries, from Ireland to India to Hong Kong. “It has been really rewarding finding ways to amplify the voices — and meet the needs — of LGBTQ youths around the world,” Li said. “Pride Month is an incredibly important time for the LGBTQ community to find space for one another, congregate and celebrate. But it’s particularly significant when we know that LGBTQ people — especially those who are Black, Indigenous and people of color — have been disproportionately affected by the pandemic, because they are more likely to experience issues such as homelessness, incarceration and unemployment.” Justin Li Brown-RISD Dual Degree Student, Class of 2025 Li said that his dual-degree coursework at Brown and RISD has provided him with insights that will help him grow the Love for All Project even further. At Brown, the Open Curriculum has given him the opportunity to explore his wide-ranging academic interests — from entrepreneurship to astronomy — while taking courses that directly explore the dynamics of running nonprofit organizations, including Management of Nonprofit and Industrial Organizations, led by Professor Emeritus of Engineering Barrett Hazeltine. “I was so excited to learn that class existed,” said Li, who is concentrating in social analysis and research. “I learned a lot about organizational structures and how to ensure that my team members are motivated and passionate about what they are doing.” And at RISD, where he is studying industrial design, Li is exploring ways that visual design can be used to amplify his community advocacy work. “Working with and developing design tools to address the needs of different communities — especially those who may be marginalized, underserved or difficult to reach — has been really interesting.” Whether illuminating new ways to engage peer volunteers or diverse communities, these courses will help Li continuing doing what matters most to him: creating connections — and cultivating collaborations — across communities. “I just love meeting and working with people of different backgrounds and bringing them together,” he said. “It’s my greatest passion.” Tags Summer Experiences Related news: Student Life Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics April 20, 2022 For 10 years, a student-run organization has taken to the air, delighting audiences with circus-inspired performances on trapeze, aerial silk, lyra and more. Read Article Open details for Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics Student Life Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community November 8, 2021 Brehan Brady — a self-described working-class kid from Pawtucket who transferred to Brown from the Community College of Rhode Island — joins other student veterans in forging a new path after their military service. Read Article Open details for Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community Student Life For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities November 4, 2021 With classroom experiences across the Open Curriculum and support from the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship, Perez built on her own experiences to launch EmpowerU, a startup that connects low-income students to higher education resources. Read Article Open details for For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities Summer Experiences Every May, Brown students leave the classrooms of College Hill behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — from internships and fellowships to research projects and entrepreneurial startups. Summer Experiences Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Justin Li: Keeping Pride alive in Providence during a challenging year Open details for Justin Li: Keeping Pride alive in Providence during a challenging year Bookmark this Page