By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Plan Your Visit Parking More from this Section Tips Food & Lodging Syracuse, NY Parking and Transportation Services Information about short-term parking, admissions parking, sporting events, lot locations, accessibility, directions, and maps. Parking on and around campus is available, but limited, depending on the time of year or event. Use the links below to find the best place to park when you arrive on campus: Admissions events Daily campus visitors Sporting events Lot directions and maps Campus parking maps If you’re planning to extend your stay overnight or have other considerations that may require special parking accommodations, contact Parking and Transportation Services for more information. Connect with Parking and Transportation Services Admissions Parking Weekday Campus Visits Parking for weekday visits is available in the University Avenue Garage. The Office of Admissions is located at 401 University Place. Once you park, follow University Ave. toward campus for two blocks. Cross Waverly Ave. and walk up the pedestrian pathway with the Schine Student Center on your left. At the Einhorn Family Walk, formerly University Place, turn left and walk toward College Place for two blocks. 401 University Place will be on your left, just after Bird Library. Head up the stairs or follow the ramp on the right to enter the main doors across from Bird Library. Allow 15 minutes to walk from the garage to 401 University Place. Note: Please bring your parking ticket with you. The ticket will be validated at the Office of Admissions for you to submit to the parking attendant upon exiting the garage. Orange Previews Parking for Orange Preview is in the University Avenue Garage. Exit the University Avenue Garage on Adams Street. Turn left toward Walnut Park walk until you reach Walnut Place. Turn right and walk toward campus for two blocks. Cross Waverly Avenue at the light and head toward Bird Library. Walk between Bird Library and the Schine Student Center, with the Library on your left. Take the stairs or pedestrian ramp up to campus. Follow the walkways towards the Quad, where Huntington Beard Crouse will be located. Note: Please bring your parking ticket with you. The ticket will be validated for you to submit to the parking attendant upon exiting the garage. Spring Receptions Parking for Spring Receptions is in the Skytop lot. Shuttles will take you from the Skytop lot to the Schine Student Center for check-in. Please allow 20 minutes to get from the Skytop lot to the student center. Permits Parking permits can be purchased by Syracuse University employees and students on a space-available basis. If you plan to have a car on campus, please register with Parking and Transportation Services. Student parking permit Employee parking permit Other permit categories Related Pages Campus Map Here you’ll find comprehensive campus maps to academic buildings, residence halls, parking, directions, and more. Commuter Options Students commuting to Syracuse University should complete a parking application. Accessible Parking Accessible parking spaces are designated by signs bearing the international symbol of accessibility. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy