Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Creative Inquiry Creative Inquiry for Undergraduate Students What is Creative Inquiry? Creative Inquiry projects offer students the opportunity to engage in long term, team-based projects with an emphasis on undergraduate research but include other academic engagement opportunities (e.g., service-learning, outreach, global engagement, entrepreneurship). Participating in a CI project often leads to citable accomplishments, such as presentations at professional society conferences and publication citations in professional, peer-reviewed publications. CI students frequently report that their CI experience allows them to develop their soft skills, network with peers and professionals, and learn to work in and collaborate with a team of diverse individuals. All CI projects are accompanied with courses embedded in each CI mentor’s department curriculum. How do I join a CI project? First, visit our Find a Project page to search for projects that are actively recruiting students from your major(s). You can customize your search to suite your areas of interest. Second, visit the Current Projects page which lists all current, active CI projects. If you see a project listed on this page, send the mentor a professional email explaining your interest and asking if you may join the project and if so how to join. Lastly, you are always welcome to visit or contact the CI & UR Office. What does it take? Commitment and curiosity! Successful students need to have the desire to be creative, to work in a team over multiple semesters, and to be mentored by a faculty member or graduate student. You will need to enroll in the accompanying CI course for 1-3 credit hours (varies by project). Students Conducting Research for Credit – Medical Coverage Undergraduate students conducting research for credit (i.e. not in a paid position such as a student worker, etc.) are NOT covered under the university’s workers compensation program in the event of an accident. In such cases, any medical costs incurred that are not covered under the student health fee, may have to be paid by the student. It is recommended that students and parents consider the risks associated with the work to be conducted and determine the need for additional medical insurance coverage (if applicable). A list of services covered and not covered under the student health fee, as well as a link to purchase the Student Health Insurance Plan can be found here: https://www.clemson.edu/campus-life/student-health/insurance-and-billing.html Resources Reference our Opportunities & Events page for additional support, presentation, award and conference travel opportunities. See our Services page for a list of equipment available for checkout. FAQ How do I credit Creative Inquiry on my poster or presentation? CI credit statement for publications and presentations: "This work was supported in part by the Clemson University Creative Inquiry Program" CI logos for use on presentations and posters: Creative Inquiry Logos Creative Inquiry Logo - Color (Illustrator) Creative Inquiry Logo - Color (PNG) Creative Inquiry Logo - White (PNG) Wide Creative Inquiry Logo - Color (Illustrator) Wide Creative Inquiry Logo - Color (PNG) Wide Creative Inquiry Logo- White (PNG) Photography permission Creative Inquiry welcomes your contributions of photographs depicting your project's activities, especially photos that include Clemson undergraduate students. If your photos include people other than Clemson students or employees, we must have signed permission forms from each of these people. Parents permission is required for photos of children (under age 18). Print copies of the Photo Permission Form for Minors and the Photo Permission Form for Adults. Keep these forms handy when you are photographing your project activities and participants. When you send photos to the Creative Inquiry office, please also send a copy of the permission forms. This will ensure that we can use your photos to publicize your work. Photos for publicity purposes should be high-resolution, at least 200 (preferably 300) pixels per inch. Intellectual property information and documents Guidelines for Course Instructors and Student Course Project Supervisors Sponsored Student Project Agreement IP Rights Summary Student Participation Agreement- For Use in Sponsored Course Projects Copyright information See copyright information at libguides.clemson.edu/copyright. Home Students Faculty Grad Students Summer CI + UR Corporate CI Clemson COVID Challenge About CI Opportunities & Events CI + UR Seminar Series Related Links Current Projects Decipher Magazine Contact Us Watt Family Innovation Center Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram