Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Protect the Pack COVID-19 Readiness Personal Precautions Community Standards COVID-19 Health Services Updates COVID-19 Readiness Personal Precautions sub navigation menuPersonal Precautions COVID-19 Health Services Updates Full Site Navigation Personal Precautions Community Standards Personal Precautions Help keep the Wolfpack healthy with these recommendations. Personal Responsibility, Pack Respect As members of this Wolfpack, we also have the responsibility to respect and support one another. Each one of us is responsible for taking steps to help protect ourselves and others. We ask that you continue to be respectful of others and their choices. Keeping yourself — and others — safe Make sure you know the symptoms of COVID-19 — and when it’s appropriate to self-quarantine and seek medical attention. Do all you can to reduce the spread of this disease by taking simple precautions and following the university’s latest guidance. If you feel sick, stay home. If you are not fully vaccinated, you are encouraged to continue wearing a face covering indoors and when in close contact with others. Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer. Cover coughs and sneezes with tissue or the inside of your elbow. Disinfect surfaces and objects, especially those frequently touched. Vaccines are the best defense against COVID-19 and its variants. Please get your vaccine, and if you’re eligible, your booster shot. Community Standards Community standards were implemented in 2020 to guide NC State’s campus community through the pandemic. As the pandemic changed, those standards have changed, and they now focus on personal risk assessment and responsibility. Please continue making well-informed decisions to protect your own personal safety and the health and safety of others. Thank you for your efforts to take care of yourself and your Pack. Additional Resources Find Help on Campus Everyone needs a helping hand at times. At NC State we have the resources and services to assist you in navigating life’s expected — and unexpected — challenges. Pack Essentials NC State and campus partners have developed many programs to support students in need of food, housing, and financial and educational security. Feed the Pack Feed the Pack is a student-led food pantry that is open to all NC State students, staff and faculty. You will be asked to swipe your campus ID, and then you can shop for the items you need. Financial Wellness Learn more about how NC State can help you practice financial health during your time on campus and beyond. Protect the Pack Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan Campus Map facebook you tube twitter instagram linked in © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.