Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Online Admissions UofM Global Financial Aid Online Admissions Apply Now Request Information Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Overview FAQs Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Financial Aid The Financial Aid Office administers federal, state and institutional aid programs to qualified students. To receive financial aid, qualified students must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents and qualifying non-citizens are eligible for federal financial aid. Contact the Financial Aid Office Contact Us: Financial Aid Office Phone: 901.678.4825 103 Wilder Tower Fax: 901.678.3590 Memphis, TN 38152-3520 E-Mail: financialaid@memphis.edu Office hours are: Monday - Friday 8:00am - 4:30pm Apply for Federal Student Aid 003509 is the school code for the University of Memphis. Apply for an FSA ID (required to complete the FAFSA) > Watch a quick tutorial on how to apply for an FSA ID > Complete the FAFSA > Watch a quick tutorial on how to provide IRS Income Tax Information (IRS Data Retrieval) > (Clicking the above links opens a new window to the UC Santa Barbara website where the tutorial is hosted.) Submit Documents - Students must also submit any other required documents in order to complete the application prior to being awarded. Requirements are posted on myMemphis. Do not wait to hear about your admissions status to file the FAFSA! Early submission is important. You will receive a Student Aid Report (SAR) electronically if you provided an email address on your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). A paper SAR will be mailed to you in 2 weeks if no email was provided. Be prepared to submit additional information if requested on your myMemphis account under the ACCOUNT$ tab. CHECK myMemphis OFTEN FOR MISSING REQUIREMENTS! Your Financial Aid information will be reviewed for a financial aid award or non-award decision upon receipt of ALL required documents and admission to the University. If awarded, the aid information will be posted on the myMemphis portal. NOTE: Separate financial aid awards are processed for Summer semester. If you will require aid for the Summer semester, complete a Summer Update Form located on the Financial Aid Forms page (available in early April each year). NOTE: All correspondence regarding the status of your financial aid is e-mailed to your University of Memphis e-mail address (or, if not yet admitted, the e-mail address you provided on your FAFSA). The Financial Aid Office no longer mails out award notifications. If you have any questions regarding the status of your aid application, check myMemphis. Common Mistakes When Applying for Financial Aid Required items or sections are left blank on the FAFSA. Signature is missing on the FAFSA. Students selected for 'verification' are required to submit a copy of their and/or their parent's tax return transcript to the Student Financial Aid Office. The 1040EZ, 1040A, or 1040 are no longer acceptable documents for the verification process. Items, sections, or signatures are left blank on the verification or worksheet form. How to Accept/Decline Your Award Offer(s) Log on to your myMemphis account Click on the Account$ tab Scroll down, then click on the Financial Aid Awards link NOTE: If you do not have this link/"channel", call the ITS Help Desk at 901.678.8888. Select the Aid Year, then Submit Read the information under the General Information tab (note that the Accept Award Offer tab is not yet clickable/activated) Click on the Terms and Conditions tab, then scroll down to 'Accept' (the Terms and Conditions) Click on the Accept Award Offer tab, then scroll down Click on the drop down box next to your award OFFER and select an option. Sign up online NOW for eRefunds to receive excess financial aid and fee refunds. **New - View Financial Wellness Course > (Designed to enhance student financial knowledge and highlight financial behaviors.) About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/16/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.