Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator California Chafee Grant for Foster Youth If you are or were in foster care for at least one day, between the ages of 16 and 18 as a dependent or ward of the court and have financial need, you may qualify for up to $5,000 a year for career and technical training or college. You don’t have to pay this money back. You may also be able to use your grant to help pay for child care, transportation and rent while you’re in school. You can use your Chafee Grant at any eligible California college or university or career or technical school, as well as schools in other states. Eligibility Requirements To qualify, you must meet the following criteria: 1. Be a current or former foster youth who was a ward of the court, living in foster care, for at least one day between the ages of 16 and 18. 2. Youth who are/were in Kin-GAP, a non-related legal guardianship, or were adopted, are eligible only if the youth was a dependent or ward of the court, living in foster care, for at least one day between the ages of 16 and 18. 3. Not have reached your 22nd birthday as of July 1st of the award year. Pursuant to Assembly Bill 2506, starting with the 2017-18 award year, you can only receive your Chafee Grant if you attend a school that is either of the following: 1. A qualifying institution that is eligible for participation in the Cal Grant Program. 2. An institution that is not located in California with a three-year cohort default rate that is less than 15.5 percent and a graduation rate greater than 30 percent. Applying 1. Submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or California Dream Act Application (CADAA) ; Dream Act applicants: Dream Act ID required to submit a Chafee Grant application 2. Submit the California Chafee Grant Application Electronic submission of all required documents is preferred, but if you are unable to do so, you may print and submit the paper versions below: FAFSA (pdf) California Dream Act Application (pdf) California Chafee Grant Application (pdf) Important Note for Paper Applicants Forms are year-specific. Be sure to complete the applications that corresponds with the academic year you will be attending school. Renewing My Chafee Grant If you received a Chafee Grant, it may be renewed through your 23rd birthday as of July 1st of the award year. You do not need to reapply for the Chafee Grant each year; however, you must submit a FAFSA or CADAA. The Commission may contact you for updated information. Be sure to respond to emails, letters or forms that you may receive. What Happens After I Apply? The Commission will review your FAFSA or CADAA and Chafee Application. The California Department of Social Services (CDSS) may verify your foster status. If CDSS is not able to verify your status, please complete the Foster Care Eligibility Certification Form and mail it. Once all of the above is completed, the Commission will send you an email message if you are selected fo an award. The school will verify payment eligibility and disburse the check to you. If you applied for a Chafee Grant, go to WebGrants for Students to check the status of your application. Awarding Process Student's completed applications are sorted by application date, and awards are offered based on the following priority selection criteria: **Paid renewal students who have not reached their 23rd birthday as of July 1st of the award year. New and ***non-paid renewal students who will be 22 years old as of July 1st of the award year. New and non-paid renewal students who have dependents. New and non-paid renewal students who have an unmet need of $5,000 or more. New and non-paid renewal students who have an unmet need of less than $5,000. ** Students who have received a Chafee payment. *** Students who have not received a Chafee payment. Upon selection for an award, students are sent payment notifications for each term. The majority of Chafee Grant awards are initiated during the fall term and additional awards are offered year round based on available federal and state funding each year. SUPPORT SERVICES FOR FOSTER YOUTH @ CSUF The Guardian Scholars Program provides on-campus support services for Foster Youth. The Guardian Scholars Program is one of six scholar programs in the Center for Scholars at CSUF. There are several avenues for former foster youth to gain resources and support at CSUF. Please review the information below to learn more. You can also find more info on our website at http://fullerton.edu/scholars Support Services Program The Guardian Scholars Support Services are provided by the Center for Scholars in collaboration with on-campus partners and include the following: Access to Year-Round On-Campus Housing Priority Registration Educational and Community Enrichment Activities Individual Counseling / Life Coaching Student Study Spaces Computer Lab & Free Printing Visit our website to apply - http://fullerton.edu/scholars Scholarship Program Services from the Support Services Program, and Scholarship support that enhances individual financial aid award offers Application deadlines are one our website - http://fullerton.edu/scholars Contact Information: Center for Scholars Guardian Scholars Program Location: Pollak Library (PLS) 170 Website: Guardian Scholars Email: scholars@fullerton.edu Phone: 657.278.5494 Office Hours: 8 AM - 5 PM | Monday - Friday California Student Aid Commission Specialized Programs Operations Brach - Chafee P.O. Box 419029 Rancho Cordova, CA 95741 Phone: 888.224.7268 Fax: 916.464.7977 This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.