Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Office of Registration Services About Departments Office of Registration Services The mission of the Office of Registration Services is to support scholarship, teaching, and learning at Columbia Law School. In so doing, we uphold the academic policies of the faculty with regard to equity and transparency and serve all members of our constituencies with respect and professionalism. Office of Registration Services William and June Warren Hall, Floor 5 Send an email Department Services Come see us in person at William June Warren Hall Room 500 or give us a call at: (212) 854-2668 Course Selection & Registration Exams & Grading Bar Certification & Licensure Meet our Team Yadira Ramos-Herbert Associate Dean of Students and Registration Services Marin Conaughty Executive Director Jeffrey Bagares Director of Operations, Student & Registration Services Ebony Chavis Registration Services Coordinator Leila Dominici Registration Services Coordinator William Gaythwaite Assistant Director of Registration Services Melissa Jimenez Registration Services Officer Diana Pedi Communications Manager Elina Yuffa Director for Curricular Planning and Adjunct Administration Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.