COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Great Plains Studies, Graduate Certificate Graduate CertificateGreat Plains Studies All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts and Sciences Wichita State's graduate certificate in Great Plains studies allows you to experience and study the Great Plains Region by exploring its cultural and natural aspects. The certificate is ideal for graduate students studying the physical sciences or in liberal arts areas such has English, history or anthropology. Learn how Great Plains Studies is the right fit for you. Contact Coordinator Curriculum To complete the 15-credit-hour graduate certificate, you'll choose at least two courses in the physical sciences (biology and/or geology) and cultural studies (anthropology and/or history). By your final semester, you should submit at least three works that demonstrate the application of the concepts, issues and topics of Great Plains Studies such as a thesis, conference paper, novel, play, work of nonfiction, historic tour or performance, museum exhibit, policy paper, fieldwork notes or collaborative event with a community or scholarly organization. View the curriculum Admission to the program There are two paths to admission to the program: For those already enrolled in graduate school, simply complete the Declaration of Intent to Pursue a Certificate Form. Prospective students should apply using the Graduate School application for admission. Graduate School Application Inside the Program Bacteria study that could have agricultural impact started with one student's thesis What started as a thesis by former grad student John "Wes" Dille's, turned into a collaborative study between two professors that could have an agricultural impact. Microbiology professor Mark Schneegurt and ornithology professor Chris Rogers discovered that one of North America's most common migratory birds – the Dark-eyed Junco – carries a remarkable diversity of plant bacteria on its feathers, the greatest ever found on wild birds. And while many of these bacteria may be harmful to plants, the bacteria could also be of great benefit as the migratory birds interact with the environment. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©