Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Student Life Date July 16, 2020 2020-07-16 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Summer Experience Stories Every May, Brown students leave their coursework behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — a tradition that has continued remotely during the current COVID-19 moment. Summer Experiences HOPE at Brown: Battling discrimination against Rhode Islanders experiencing homelessness This summer, members of HOPE at Brown, a student-run Swearer Center program that combats homelessness, are contributing to community-based research that identifies discrimination against housing-insecure individuals. Last spring, Annelise Ernst (bottom row, second from right) joined fellow HOPE at Brown students on a visit to the Rhode Island State House, where they presented a housing discrimination report compiled in partnership with SouthCoast Fair Housing. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — In 2012, Rhode Island became the first state to pass a Homeless Bill of Rights, which grants people experiencing homelessness the same rights, privileges and access to social services as those who are not. But personal and systematic discrimination against housing-insecure people persists, advocates say, making it difficult for individuals to access the services and resources to which they are entitled. Housing Opportunities for People Everywhere — known as HOPE at Brown — is dedicated to changing this. A student-led organization run through the University’s Swearer Center, HOPE at Brown includes more than 100 students who conduct outreach and collaborate with community partners on projects that support structural reforms aimed at ensuring equitable treatment for housing-insecure individuals. This summer, HOPE at Brown students are working with the House of Hope Community Development Corporation— an organization dedicated to ending homelessness in Rhode Island — on remote research projects that students say have uncovered instances of systemic discrimination against housing-insecure individuals. For rising Brown senior Annelise Ernst, the summer presented the opportunity to reimagine a research project that was already in progress. In the spring, the incoming HOPE at Brown co-director helped lead a team of approximately two dozen students in administering in-depth surveys to over 100 Rhode Islanders who either were or had recently experienced homelessness. “The purpose of the survey was to be able to show with concrete numbers and personal testimony the many problems that service providers and outreach workers are aware of, but didn’t have hard evidence to support,” Ernst said. As the summer began, Ernst’s team had planned to present its findings in a comprehensive report, which they intended to deliver to nonprofits and government offices working on issues related to homelessness. But the groundswell of anti-racist activism that arose following George Floyd’s killing by Minneapolis police changed the shape and purpose of the project. “It just made all of us stop and say, ‘Wait a second. How can we use this data to uplift this movement?’” Ernst said. The group returned to their results, analyzing their data and open responses with a keener eye to race. In doing so, they found that Black respondents were more than twice as likely as white respondents to be charged with a crime related to their homelessness, such as loitering or congregating outside of an establishment. They also saw that Black and Latinx respondents frequently noted in their open responses that their privacy had been violated by case managers, medical providers and government offices — an observation that did not arise at all among the open responses of white respondents. The new findings shined a spotlight on the intersections between housing status and race, Ernst said — and have spurred the group to share their findings with a broader audience than they had originally intended. “We’re now considering ways to use this data to develop one-pagers and other resources for all community members on a number of themes, such as actions other than calling the police that they can take when a person experiencing homelessness needs help,” Ernst said. This moment of racial reckoning also caused HOPE at Brown to reexamine how its projects and philosophies account for the ways that race impacts homelessness, spurring the group to revise its mission statement and reconsider how it analyzes race in its research and policy work, Ernst said. “We all believed that our anti-poverty and anti-homelessness work intersected with anti-racist work,” she said. “But this moment has made us ask ourselves what it really means to reflect this intersectionality in our work — and see that there’s no official endpoint to these conversations. We still have so much to learn.” We all believed that our anti-poverty and anti-homelessness work intersected with anti-racist work. But this moment has made us ask ourselves what it really means to reflect this intersectionality in our work — and see that there’s no official endpoint to these conversations. We still have so much to learn. Annelise Ernst HOPE at Brown incoming co-director, Class of 2021 Like Ernst, Caleb Weinstock was working directly with people experiencing housing insecurity before the pandemic hit Rhode Island. Each week, the rising junior joined a group of HOPE students providing fair housing information to clients of OpenDoors, a nonprofit that offers advocacy and resources that help residents with criminal records reintegrate into their communities. Connecting formerly incarcerated individuals with fair public housing, however, proved a challenge. “It was really, really hard because a lot of places are extremely discriminatory toward people with criminal records,” Weinstock said. “We knew we needed to conduct research into how each development across the state treated criminal records in their application processes.” Just as Brown was shifting to remote learning this spring, Weinstock learned that House of HOPE was looking for HOPE at Brown students to evaluate local public housing applications for potential biases against applicants with criminal records. It was the perfect project for Weinstock to join — one that would provide his OpenDoors team members with the information they needed to better serve clients once in-person learning resumed. “It was something I could do at home that really nicely connected the work I’ve been doing in-person,” he said. Since April, Weinstock has been helping to analyze these application forms for discriminatory questions. “We try to figure out what kinds of applicants each development is rejecting and why,” he said. “So we ask: What is the language they use when asking whether someone has a criminal history? Do they ask about convictions or arrests? Do they ask about drug and alcohol use?” One goal of this analysis is to identify and report developments with explicitly discriminatory language. In many cases, however, developments indirectly solicit information that they cannot legally ask for, Weinstock said. For example, while it is illegal to ask a public housing applicant if they have ever been arrested, a criminal background check — a common requirement that housing managers can legally seek — indicates arrests as well as convictions. This gives housing managers a way to discriminate on the basis of arrests without explicitly asking applicants for this information, he said. By pinpointing ways that public housing applications enable discriminatory housing practices, the project will also help House of HOPE identify developments whose application processes are most amenable to housing people with criminal backgrounds — information that Weinstock intends to compile into a resource sheet that clients at OpenDoors can easily reference when seeking housing. “I’m looking forward to using the information I found to help people,” Weinstock said. You learn about tons of stuff at school, but it’s hard to put it all in perspective. HOPE at Brown really does that. Going to OpenDoors and talking with people about housing equality — it kind of makes that policy class that you had yesterday make a little bit more sense. It shows you that school is talking about something real. Caleb Weinstock HOPE at Brown member, Class of 2022 Tweet this quote The contributions that Weinstock, Ernst and their fellow HOPE at Brown members make to research and advocacy projects at House of Hope — and their investment in continuing this work remotely through the summer months — provides critical support to the organization. “We couldn’t do the work we do without these students,” said Megan Smith, a member of House of Hope’s outreach program who was herself a member of HOPE at Brown before graduating in 2010. “Logistically, HOPE at Brown provides incredible bandwidth to our projects and is really, really good at matching student skill sets to community needs,” Smith said. “And philosophically, HOPE at Brown has always been a groundswell of brilliant ideas and energy.” In addition to influencing individual projects, these student ideas promote the deep systemic change necessary to eradicate homelessness, Smith said. “I’ve been doing this work now for 15 years,” she said. “It’s easy for the royal ‘us’ to become complacent with the status quo, and that’s why we have a bad system that harms people. That’s why I so deeply appreciate talking with the students about their vision and hearing their perspectives on these issues. It definitely makes me a better case manager and advocate.” The contributions that Ernst and Weinstock have made to community-based projects as members of HOPE at Brown have also enriched their own undergraduate experiences. Ernst’s academic path has been shaped by the research and advocacy projects undertaken in her three years with HOPE at Brown. “My academic work has 100% been affected by my work with HOPE at Brown,” said the sociology and urban studies concentrator. “Each year, I align my academic work more and more with my HOPE projects.” For example, during her junior year, Ernst participated in a Departmental Independent Study Project that enabled her to conduct research on housing discrimination based on source of income in Rhode Island. The research later informed the advocacy work of local community organizations. “It was one of my most rewarding academic experiences at Brown because it so perfectly aligned with my work with HOPE at Brown,” she said. Weinstock, a political science concentrator, credits HOPE at Brown with giving him the opportunity to apply his coursework to solving a critical social problem. “You learn about tons of stuff at school, but it’s hard to put it all in perspective,” he said. “HOPE at Brown really does that. Going to OpenDoors and talking with people about housing equality — it kind of makes that policy class that you had yesterday make a little bit more sense. It shows you that school is talking about something real.” Related News: Summer Experiences Health and Medicine Parisa Afsharian: Translating research into actionable health advice August 18, 2021 As a Hassenfeld Summer Scholar, Afsharian is researching the connection between language and health outcomes – and using her multilingualism to improve the health of families. Read Article Open details for Parisa Afsharian: Translating research into actionable health advice Social Sciences Josh Bricker: Investigating whether low public defender spending explains high incarceration rates August 12, 2021 As a summer research assistant, the rising senior is analyzing decades of data to investigate whether increasing spending on state public defender programs could lower America’s uniquely high incarceration rate. Read Article Open details for Josh Bricker: Investigating whether low public defender spending explains high incarceration rates Student Life Sarah Zylberfuden: Making connections in canine cognition July 28, 2021 With dogs important contributors in everything from rescue operations to assisting people with disabilities, the rising senior is spending her summer in a Brown laboratory researching the reasoning abilities of man’s best friend. Read Article Open details for Sarah Zylberfuden: Making connections in canine cognition Student Life Whitney Terrill: Aligning personal insurance with collective good July 21, 2021 As a member of B-Lab — the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship’s summer startup accelerator — Terrill is developing the Reem Company, an insurance carrier that benefits the greater good, as outlined by her Islamic faith. Read Article Open details for Whitney Terrill: Aligning personal insurance with collective good Arts and Humanities Halle Bryant: Indexing Rhode Island’s Indigenous history July 14, 2021 The Class of 2021 graduate is working with Rhode Island’s Tomaquag Museum to index 1930s issues of a Native American magazine that sheds light on the lives of Indigenous people in New England and beyond. Read Article Open details for Halle Bryant: Indexing Rhode Island’s Indigenous history Student Life Pre-college programs at Brown offer high school students the chance to learn on campus or online July 8, 2021 The first in-person [email protected] sessions since COVID-19’s arrival are welcoming nearly 800 high school students to campus this summer, while many others participate virtually from across the globe. Read Article Open details for Pre-college programs at Brown offer high school students the chance to learn on campus or online Arts and Humanities Jeremy Chan: Gamifying the scramble for Africa July 7, 2021 As a teaching assistant in the history course African Experiences of Empire, Chan is designing board games that deepen students’ knowledge of everyday life in sub-Saharan Africa as European powers were seizing control. Read Article Open details for Jeremy Chan: Gamifying the scramble for Africa Student Life Justin Li: Keeping Pride alive in Providence during a challenging year June 30, 2021 Brown-RISD dual degree student Justin Li led efforts to revive Pride Month activities in Rhode Island this year after challenges related to COVID-19 threatened to cancel the longstanding tradition. Read Article Open details for Justin Li: Keeping Pride alive in Providence during a challenging year Student Life BrownConnect Summer Institute: Adapting a beloved novel into a Broadway play August 20, 2020 As part of the BrownConnect Summer Institute, Brown students and recent graduates considered the creative and practical challenges of transforming the bestselling novel “Wonder” into a Broadway musical. Read Article Open details for BrownConnect Summer Institute: Adapting a beloved novel into a Broadway play Health and Medicine Cesar Orduña: Delivering free virus tests to Rhode Island’s underserved August 12, 2020 Since May, a Brown senior and other students have played an instrumental role in providing COVID-19 tests to low-income, uninsured Rhode Island residents, many of whom are working on the front lines amid a global pandemic. Read Article Open details for Cesar Orduña: Delivering free virus tests to Rhode Island’s underserved Student Life Emily Ma and Liyuan Ao: Helping rural teens find their voices August 7, 2020 With support from a Royce fellowship, two undergraduate students are teaching middle-schoolers in rural China how to express themselves and transform their communities through photography. Read Article Open details for Emily Ma and Liyuan Ao: Helping rural teens find their voices Arts and Humanities Ali Dipp: Building a platform for ‘borderlanders’ in the Southwest August 6, 2020 Through digital marketplaces, murals and storytelling, the Brown-RISD dual degree student and El Paso, Texas, native seeks to celebrate the unique character of the Southwest. Read Article Open details for Ali Dipp: Building a platform for ‘borderlanders’ in the Southwest Tags Summer Experiences Swearer Center Undergraduate Research Summer Experience Stories Every May, Brown students leave their coursework behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — a tradition that has continued remotely during the current COVID-19 moment. Summer Experiences Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search HOPE at Brown: Battling discrimination against Rhode Islanders experiencing homelessness Open details for HOPE at Brown: Battling discrimination against Rhode Islanders experiencing homelessness Bookmark this Page