Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF THE ENVIRONMENT FRIDAY HARBOR LABS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 FHL 101 Introduction to Marine Biology in the San Juan Islands (1) NW M. Dethier One-weekend, one-credit course designed to introduce students to the marine ecosystem of the San Juan Archipelago and the facilities of the Friday Harbor Laboratories, while doing basic exploration of marine biology. Students will spend two full-schedule days doing a variety of field and lab studies. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 101 FHL 250 Marine Biology (5) NW Physical, biological, and social aspects of the marine environments. Topics include oceanography, ecology, physiology, behavior, conservation, fisheries, exploration, and activism. Field and laboratory exercises expose students to common marine biological techniques and the diverse marine ecosystems of the San Juan Islands, WA, and to service-learning with local schools. Recommended: at least one quarter of introductory biology (more preferable). Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 250 FHL 275 Natural History of the Salish Sea (5) NW Emily Carrington A field-oriented introduction to the natural history of the Salish Sea focused on marine habitats and species of cultural and ecological importance. Students live at the Friday Harbor Labs, allowing immersive learning on the shores of the San Juan Islands. Lectures, field trips and lab exercises develop observational skills and knowledge of coastal organisms and their relationships with the environment. Human impacts are also discussed. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 275 FHL 305 Biology of Fishes (5) NW Covers the morphological, physiological, behavioral, and ecological diversity of fishes worldwide; provides a basic foundation for advanced courses in all areas of aquatic sciences. Participants engage in field-based collecting, copious dissection/illustration laboratories, and delve into scientific literature on this fascinating group's biology. Recommended: Recommended: 10 credits biological science. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 305 FHL 333 Science Writing for Diverse Audiences (3/5) Examines the effective communication of scientific ideas in writing for both scientific and public audiences. Students read, analyze, and write diverse materials, learning to identify and practice concise, effective communication about marine science for a variety of audiences. The close-knit, hands-on FHL community creates an environment where students work together both inside and outside of class to build their skills. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 333 FHL 350 Introduction to Research in Marine Biology (6) NW Learn skills important to research scientists while participating in a mentored, hands-on project. Includes gathering, manipulating, and presenting data, plus group discussions on research ethics and the role of research in career options and graduate programs. Focuses on research activities in collaboration with a mentor. Research fields and topics vary. Recommended: any 100- or 200-level laboratory-based science course, ideally basic biology or marine biology. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 350 FHL 375 Marine Mammals of the Salish Sea (5) NW Deborah Giles An overview of the marine mammals found in the Salish Sea: their biology, habitats and conservation. Field trips throughout the San Juan Archipelago allow observation of common species, involving identification and recording of behavior in nature. Prerequisite: BIOL 180, FISH 250, ENVIR 100, OCEAN 101, or OCEAN 200. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 375 FHL 430 Marine Zoology (5) NW Survey of groups of invertebrate animals represented in the San Juan Archipelago; natural history, functional morphology, ecology, distribution, habitat, adaptation, trophic interrelationships, and evolution. Prerequisite: BIOL 445, which must be taken concurrently; permission of Friday Harbor director. Offered: jointly with BIOL 430. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 430 FHL 432 Marine Invertebrate Zoology (9) NW Comparative morphology and biology of marine invertebrates with emphasis on field and laboratory studies. Representatives of all major and most minor phyla are collected, observed live, and studied in detail. Taken at Friday Harbor Laboratories. Not open for credit to students who have taken BIOL 434. Offered: jointly with BIOL 432; S. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 432 FHL 435 Research Apprenticeship in Marine Science (15) NW Immersive quarter in research n close collaboration with one-three faculty mentors on a specific topic that varies with the apprenticeship. Students engage in laboratory or field research in marine science, involving gathering, analyzing, and communicating results as part of a research team. Offered: jointly with BIOL 435/MARBIO 435; ASpS. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 435 FHL 440 Marine Botany (5) NW Survey of plants represented in marine environments; natural history; ecology, distribution, habitat, adaptation, and trophic interrelationships. Taken at Friday Harbor laboratories. Prerequisite: either BIOL 220, B BIO 220, or TESC 140; BIOL 430, which must be taken concurrently. Offered: jointly with BIOL 445. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 440 FHL 446 Marine Botany: Diversity and Ecology (9) NW Introduces marine plants - the diversity, life histories, physiology, and ecology of seaweeds, seagrasses, and marsh plants in the Salish Sea. Emphasizes field and laboratory work, including the application of molecular techniques to explore algal diversity and evolution. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 446 FHL 450 Nearshore Ecology Research Experience (6) NW M. Dethier A hands-on introduction of "doing science" in close collaboration with a faculty member. Students engage in research around a thematic focus of ecology of nearshore marine ecosystems, with lab experiments and field work. Students gather, analyze, write up, and present their own data. Offered: jointly with MARBIO 450; ASp. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 450 FHL 460 Aquatic Animals Research Experience (6) NW A hands-on introduction of "doing science" in close collaboration with a faculty member. Students engage in research around a thematic focus of aquatic animals, with lab experiments and field work. Students gather, analyze, write up, and present their own data. Offered: jointly with MARBIO 460; ASp. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 460 FHL 468 Advanced Topics in Ecology and Biomechanics (9, max. 27) Focuses on various aspects of ecology and biomechanics of marine organisms, such as experimental ecology, ocean acidification, deep sea biodiversity, or biomechanics. Taught at Friday Harbor Laboratories. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 468 FHL 469 Ecology and Human Interactions in the Salish Sea (5) NW Explores complex, interrelated processes of marine social-ecological systems using the Salish Sea as a case study. Emphasis on building knowledge of ecological processes, familiarity with primary literature, and a sense of place in Salish Sea ecosystems through hands-on field activities and diverse course content. Prerequisite: either FISH 270/OCEAN 270/MARBIO 270, BIOL 220, B BIO 220, or T BIOL 140; recommended: basic biology and ecology coursework. Offered: jointly with MARBIO 469; A. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 469 FHL 470 Research in Marine Biology (1-15, max. 15) NW Billie J Swalla A hands-on introduction of "doing science" in close collaboration with a faculty member. Students engage in research in marine biology; credits vary with the scale of the project with may include lab experiments and field work. Students gather, analyze, write up, and present their own data. Offered: jointly with MARBIO 470; ASp. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 470 FHL 471 Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of Marine Organisms (5) NW Adam P. Summers Challenges and opportunities presented by the marine environment. Relationship between organismal form and physiological function in marine animals and plants. Field trips for collection of live local organisms. Physiology experiments and CT scanning. Offered at Friday Harbor Laboratories. Cannot be taken for credit if credit received for FISH 324 or BIOL 467. Prerequisite: either BIOL 220, BIOL 240, or FISH 270/MARBIO 270/OCEAN 270; recommended: Q SCI 381 or equivalent. Offered: jointly with BIOL 471; A. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 471 FHL 472 Friday Harbor Labs Research Apprenticeship (15, max. 30) NW A full-time, quarter-long program where apprentices work intensively on learning methods and carrying out hands-on research around one theme. Themes vary with the quarter and involve either extensive field or laboratory work or both. Students are trained in context, tools, data-gathering, and creation of research products appropriate to the theme. Recommended: strong background in core biological sciences. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 472 FHL 490 Marine Sciences Seminar (1, max. 3) NW Students attend seminars by marine scientists each week and ask questions about their seminars. Offered: ASpS. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 490 FHL 492 Ecology and Conservation of Marine Birds and Mammals (9/15) NW An intensive, field-based course that offers motivated students the opportunity to learn about these ecologically and culturally important marine animals and the conservation problems they face. Emphasizes first-hand learning and individual research projects. Offered: jointly with FISH 492/MARBIO 492; S. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 492 FHL 495 Special Topics in Natural Science (3-5, max. 10) Special topics courses in the natural sciences that take advantage of unique opportunities at the Friday Harbor Laboratories. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 495 FHL 528 Advanced Topics in Fish Biology (9, max. 27) Focuses on various aspects of fish biology, such as functional morphology, sensory biology, or swimming mechanics. Taught at Friday Harbor Laboratories. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 528 FHL 536 Comparative Invertebrate Embryology (9) Studies diversity in developmental patterns in major marine taxa. Analyzes evolutionary changes in development, with emphasis on observation of live embryos and larvae. Offered: jointly with BIOL 536; S. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 536 FHL 548 Advanced Topics in Evolution and Development (9, max. 27) Focuses on various aspects of evolution and development of marine organisms, such as larval biology or evolution and development of metazoans. Students work on individual projects during the course. Taught at Friday Harbor Laboratories. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 548 FHL 568 Advanced Topics in Ecology (9) Introduces various aspects of marine ecology, such as experimental ecology, ocean acidification, and disease ecology. Taught at Friday Harbor Laboratories. Topics may change from year to year but will always focus on advanced topics in ecology. Recommended: college-level background in biology and ecology. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 568 FHL 578 Special Topics in Science Communication (9) NW This FHL course focuses on different aspects of linkages between scientists and the public, including multiple ways to communicate science. Offered at Friday Harbor Laboratories; see FHL website for topic for next summer. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 578 FHL 585 Advanced Topics in Neurobiology and Physiology (9, max. 27) Focuses on various aspects of neurobiology or physiology of marine organisms, such as neurobiology, ethology, or marine chemosensory biology. Taught at Friday Harbor Laboratories. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: FHL 585 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022