Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Site Navigation Home About News People Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Ph.D. in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Detailed Requirements for the Ph.D. Teaching and Mentoring Financial Support Dissertations A.M. in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Graduate Certificate in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Courses Publications Resources Contact Print this Page Share this Page Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Brown University Box O Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3042 Phone 401-863-2695 Fax 401-863-7261 [email protected] Stay Connected with Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Graduate Programs Ph.D. Program in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Ph.D. Program in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Doctor of Philosophy Program in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies The Ph.D. Program in Portuguese and Brazilian is advanced graduate study in the language, literatures and cultures of the Portuguese-Speaking World, with concentration on one or more the following areas: Continental and Insular Portugal, Brazil, Lusophone Africa, and Luso-America. The program has an outstanding placement record for its graduates. Students enrolled in this program are able to take advantage of the diverse expertise of the Department's faculty, which embraces specializations in Literature, Language, Philosophy, Comparative Literature, History, Ethnic and Cross-Cultural Studies, Anthropology, Judaic Studies, and Bilingual Education. It is the Department's philosophy that all students should grasp the global nature of the Portuguese-Speaking World and study its language, literatures, and cultures as well as apply the tools of research and scholarship to their individual programs of study. While this doctoral program will allow for an interdisciplinary component, the emphasis of the core program will be in the Portuguese language and Luso-Brazilian literature and culture. The standard route to the Ph.D. is the successful completion of sixteen courses, a general examination (second year), a preliminary examination (third year), a pre-dissertation colloquium, and a dissertation. The Sequence of the Ph.D. Candidacy Process The expected route toward the Ph.D. follows this pattern of landmarks: 1st year landmarks: Eight courses and preparation for the general examination based on a set list of books on Luso-Afro-Brazilian literature, history and culture. 2nd year landmarks: Completion of the general examination at the beginning of the academic year, six courses, and assignment as teaching assistant or proctor. 3rd year landmarks: Final two courses, completion of preliminary examination, and assignment as teaching assistant, teaching fellow or proctor. 4th year landmarks: Presentation of the pre-dissertation colloquium, application for a dissertation fellowship, research for dissertation, and assignment as teaching assistant, teaching fellow or proctor. 5th and 6th year landmarks: Completion and defense of the dissertation. During the fifth year students will normally hold a dissertation fellowship. Support for the sixth year isn't guaranteed, but will normally be in the form of a teaching assistantship or fellowship. Transfer Credit for the Doctoral Degree Graduate work completed at other institutions and not used in fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy elsewhere may, on the recommendation of the Department, be counted towards the fulfillment of the three-year residence requirement (reducing the number of years of full tuition). A student who desires credit for work done elsewhere should file an application after completing one semester at Brown. Forms are available in the Office of the Registrar. No more than the equivalent of one full year of graduate study may be counted towards the three-year residence requirement. Students who enter our doctoral program in possession of a master's degree in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies or a related field are urged to request a reduction of the three-year residence (tuition) requirement to two years. Reduction of the residence requirement does not affect the number of courses students may take for credit. Related Files Graduate Student Handbook 21-22 Also in Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Site Navigation Home About News People Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Ph.D. in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Detailed Requirements for the Ph.D. Teaching and Mentoring Financial Support Dissertations A.M. in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Graduate Certificate in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Courses Publications Resources Contact Print this Page Share this Page Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Brown University Box O Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3042 Phone 401-863-2695 Fax 401-863-7261 [email protected] Stay Connected with Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Calendar There are no upcoming events. Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity