Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Recruiting Recruiter Login Hire Talent Employment Data Insights & Advice Contact Us …→ Harvard Business School→ Recruiting→ Discover HBS Talent HBS students and alumni are diverse, talented leaders aiming to make a positive impact in the world. Discover ways to meet and recruit this pool of talent. Discover HBS Talent HBS students and alumni are diverse, talented leaders aiming to make a positive impact in the world. Discover ways to meet and recruit this pool of talent. Insights & Advice 02 May 2022 Molly DeCastro, Lia Mastrogiacomo 4 Ways to Make Your Company Conversations Count 4 Ways to Make Your Company Conversations Count4 Ways to Make Your Company Conversations Count 02 May 2022 Molly DeCastro, Lia Mastrogiacomo 31 Mar 2022 Becca Carnahan Setting Interns Up for Success at Your Startup Setting Interns Up for Success at Your StartupSetting Interns Up for Success at Your Startup 31 Mar 2022 Becca Carnahan 24 Mar 2022 Molly DeCastro Five Ways to Rethink Your Job Description Five Ways to Rethink Your Job DescriptionFive Ways to Rethink Your Job Description 24 Mar 2022 Molly DeCastro Sign up to participate in events during the 21/22 season to engage and recruit Class of 2022 and 2023 students for internship and full-time roles. Recruit Now Hire Our TalentHire Our Talent    Gain expert recruiting advice and learn how to connect with students and alumni. Hire Our TalentHire Our Talent    Gain expert recruiting advice and learn how to connect with students and alumni. Employment Data Access Data regarding HBS Talent Career Choices View and filter employment data by industry, function and location to help inform your organizations unique hiring strategy. Let's Work Together Career & Professional Development is dedicated to helping our recruiting partners successfully connect with talent at HBS. Contact our experienced team today to develop a customized recruiting strategy. Contact Us to Work Together Connect with Students and Alumni Post a job, view resumes, and host MBA events and interviews. Recruiter Login ǁ HBS Career & Professional Development Harvard Business School Wilder House Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6232 Email: cpd@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College