Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information CUIMC Update - May 26, 2022 May 26, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email CUIMC Update is a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Please send your news, honors, and awards to cuimc_update@cumc.columbia.edu. Grants are provided by the Sponsored Projects Administration office. NEWS Language, Stigma, and Other Barriers to Mental Health Care for Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders May is Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month. VP&S psychiatrist Warren Ng, MD, addresses stigma that members of the AAPI community face in seeking mental health care, the obstacles they encounter, and ways to overcome barriers. Read more. CUIMC Employee Makes Big Difference at Commencement with Small Act of Kindness While volunteering at a CUIMC graduation ceremony, Patty Conde, a human resources staff member, provided special assistance to a visiting family. Read more. Columbia, NYP Launch Lung Cancer Screening Program The program brings together physicians and nurses from multiple disciplines to provide care for patients who are at high risk for lung cancer and other complications from smoking. Read more. Why Transient Ischemic Attacks Should be Taken Seriously In recognition of Stroke Awareness Month, VP&S neurologist Joshua Willey, MD, shares important information about transient ischemic attacks (TIAs), also known as mini strokes. Read more. How Parents Can Manage the Baby Formula Shortage Columbia pediatrician Lauren Levine, MD, shares her insights on resources to try, ways to plan, and what never to do when it comes to baby formula. Read more. Missing Link Between Alzheimer’s and Vascular Disease Found? Changes in the activity of a gene called FMNL2 may explain why people with hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity have a greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease, according to new research led by VP&S neurologist Richard Mayeux, MD. Read more. Major Uptick Reported in Cannabis Vaping for All Adolescents A new study led by Mailman epidemiologist Katherine Keyes, PhD, shows that cannabis vaping is increasing as the most popular method of cannabis delivery among all adolescents in the United States. Read more. GRANTS VAGELOS COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS Jonathan Dworkin, PhD, Microbiology & Immunology, will receive $445,500 over two years from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for “Role of the alarmone (p)ppGpp in phenotypic antibiotic tolerance.” Stephen Goff, PhD, Biochemistry & Molecular Biophysics, will receive $435,847 over three years from the Simons Foundation for “Simons Society of Fellows - Junior Fellow.” Chin Hur, MD, and Fay Kastrinos, MD, Medicine, will receive $1,875,577 over five years from the National Cancer Institute for “Optimal Colorectal Cancer Surveillance Strategy for Lynch Syndrome by Genotype.” Chin Hur, MD, and Nicholas Tatonetti, PhD, Medicine, will receive $404,079 over two years from the National Cancer Institute for “Domain-Knowledge Informed Deep Learning for Early Detection of Pancreatic Cancer.” Robert Schwabe, MD, PhD, Medicine, will receive $2,579,778 over five years from the National Cancer Institute for “Tumor-promoting and tumor-suppressive roles of Hepatic Stellate Cell Subpopulations in NASH-HCC” and $2,114,580 over four years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for “Protective and fibrosis-independent functions of hepatic stellate cells.” AWARDS AND HONORS COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IRVING MEDICAL CENTER Columbia University President Lee Bollinger awarded the Nicholas Murray Butler Gold Medal to 21 members of the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19, including various members of Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Read more. VAGELOS COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS Anna Marissa Lockman, Kerri Natkiel, and Zoe Pelly are recipients of the Department of Neurology's Professionalism, Respect, Initiative, Dedication and Excellence (PRIDE) awards. Angela Mills, MD, Emergency Medicine, was installed as 2022-2023 president of the Society for Academic Emergency Medicine. EVENTS Understanding Dementia: What to Know and How CaringKind Can Help, June 1, noon, register here. Call for Applications: Columbia Global Mental Health Programs 2022-2023 Council Grants Program, through June 1, read more. COVID-19: Causes to Consequences Mini-Symposium, June 3, 1 p.m., Jerome L. Greene Science Center, 3227 Broadway, 9th Floor, register here. Financial Empowerment Workshop Series: Make your Money Work for You—Grow Your Wealth (Investing 101), June 7, noon, register here. For more events, visit the CUIMC Events listing. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top