Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Fundamentals of Programming Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Fundamentals of Programming Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Fundamentals of Programming Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Fundamentals of Programming Undergraduate Certificate Become proficient in two programming languages and develop an understanding of database technology and data management with the Undergraduate Certificate in Fundamentals of Programming in the College of Science and Technology at Temple. This 12-credit-hour certificate is designed for current undergraduate students seeking a deeper understanding of computer programming and database techniques. You’ll study Java and Python, two popular object-oriented programming languages that are frequently used in scientific research and web applications. You'll learn to write code that is testable and maintainable and discover how to solve programming problems using algorithm-based and logical approaches. Coursework focuses on database management systems; learning, writing and testing Java and Python; and program design and abstraction. The Fundamentals of Programming Certificate (Undergraduate) can be added to your existing curriculum. This program is not open to students who are majoring in Computer Science, Information Science and Technology, Mathematics and Computer Science, or Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching. Who might be interested? Students interested in adding technology to their coursework may benefit from the Fundamentals of Programming Undergraduate Certificate. The program aims to provide an introduction to programming languages, how Java and Python are used, and database systems to broaden your knowledge and complement your career goals. Credit Requirements The Fundamentals of Programming Certificate (Undergraduate) curriculum includes three required courses, totaling 12 credit hours. Learn more about requirements for the Fundamentals of Programming Undergraduate Certificate. Delivery Method All classes are held in person at Temple’s Main Campus. Classes & Curriculum Students are required to complete three courses, including Database Management Systems, Introduction to Problem Solving and Programming in Python, and Program Design and Abstraction. Learn more about required courses for the Fundamentals of Programming Undergraduate Certificate. Related Graduate Degrees Computational Data Science MS Computer Science MS High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Information Science and Technology MS Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science Information Science and Technology Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Cindy Li is the undergraduate faculty advisor for the Fundamentals of Programming Certificate (Undergraduate) program. Phone: 215-204-2940 Email: xli@temple.edu Program Contact Jamie Payton, chair and associate professor in the Department of Computer and Information Sciences, is the program contact for the Fundamentals of Programming Undergraduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-1237 Email: payton@temple.edu Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-FPRG-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Fundamentals of Programming Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info