COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Meet a Shocker: Andrew Martin, communication grad Dec. 5, 2019 -- Andrew Martin has held many titles while attending Wichita State. He was the Director of Public Relations for SGA, served as a peer facilitator for the College of Health Professions and even has flown to new heights while getting his pilot's license. One thing for sure, Andrew's no average joe and wherever he lands, he'll soar. Meet a Shocker: Madison Davis, criminal justice grad Dec. 3, 2019 -- Madison Davis involved herself in multiple clubs and organizations while attending Wichita State. She took advantage of the different hands-on learning experiences and internships offered, which helped her grasp the concepts being taught. In January, she plans on attending graduate school and work as a Graduate Teaching Assistant. Meet a Shocker: Gabrielle Owens, aging studies grad Dec. 2, 2019 -- Gabrielle Owens surrounded herself with strong mentors she could look to when she doubted herself at Wichita State. She also took advantage of the opportunities offered through the Office of Diversity and Inclusion to successfully complete her master’s degree. Meet a Shocker: Alexi Abi-Mikhael, psychology grad May 17, 2019 -- Taking advantage of opportunities has taken Alexi Abi-Mikhael exactly where she wants to be. This Wichita Students graduate has some valuable advice to all WSU students. Meet a Shocker: Meghan Carver, communication grad May 17, 2019 -- Meghan Carver was inspired to attend Wichita State after witnessing her mom's journey as a returning adult student. Now, Meghan prepared to follow in her mom's footsteps and graduate with a college degree. Meet a Shocker: Rachel Ziska, criminal justice grad May 16, 2019 -- Future intensive supervision officer is ready to graduate college and make the next step in her career. Meet a Shocker: Julisa Martinez, business grad May 16, 2019 -- As a business major at Wichita State, Julisa Martinez has learned the power of networking. Learn more about this WSU graduate. Meet a Shocker: Rexy Que, fine arts grad May 15, 2019 -- Some of Rexy Que's proudest moments at Wichita State involve the progress they made to help campus improve the experience of LGBTQ students. Now as they prepare to move on from WSU, Rexy is ready to continue taking on new challenges after they graduate. Meet a Shocker: Devin Martin, math major May 13, 2019 -- Struggle has built character for Devin Martin, a math major at Wichita State University. Meet a Shocker: Colton Russell, engineering grad May 13, 2019 -- As an engineering major, Colton Russell found himself looking at many options of where to go to college. Wichita State University, he says, "just felt right." Meet a Shocker: Karen Abshire-Gordon, psychology grad May 13, 2019 -- After dropping out of high school and working her way back to a GED, Karen Abshire-Gordon wasn't sure she was college material. This month, she graduates with a bachelor's in psychology from Wichita State University. First Previous 2 3 4 5 6 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©