Harvard Health Publishing Harvard Health Publishing Search Search Close Shopping Cart Customer Service Content Licensing About Us Login Open mobile menu Menu Free HealthBeat Signup Shop Subscriptions Special Health Reports Online Courses Pay Subscription Bill Common Conditions Staying Healthy Resources Blog COVID-19 Updates Close menu Close Main Content Common Conditions Staying Healthy Resources Blog Helpful Links Customer Service Content Licensing About Us Login Free Healthbeat Signup Subscriptions Special Health Reports Online Courses Pay Subscription Bill Recent Blog Articles Considering pregnancy and have lupus? Plan ahead Some men whose prostate cancer progresses can safely delay treatment Heart-healthy habits for children and teens lengthen lives Monkeypox: An unfamiliar virus spreading fast — sound familiar? Diabetes: Does a long-term study reinforce or change approaches to prevention? War anxiety: How to cope Can we prevent depression in older adults by treating insomnia? Want to try veganism? Here's how to get started Vitamin B6 flies under the radar: Are you getting enough? The formula shortage is hurting families: What parents should know and do / Harvard Health Blog Drills, needles, and pain, oh my! Coping with dental anxiety December 18, 2019 By Tien Jiang, DMD, MEd, Contributor For many people, going to the dentist is an unpleasant but manageable experience. For others, just the thought of going to the dentist causes severe anxiety, leading them to delay or avoid dental treatment. Unfortunately, this behavior can spiral into a vicious cycle of dental pain, health problems, worse anxiety, and more complex and costly dental procedures. Dental anxiety and phobia It’s very common for people to fear going to the dentist. When dental fear is severe and leads people to delay or cancel treatment, these individuals may meet criteria for dental phobia or odontophobia, which is included in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition as a type of phobia. There are many different reasons for and triggers of dental anxiety. For some, they have had a previous traumatic experience; for others, they are extremely afraid of needles. Because the origin of fear can vary from patient to patient, it is critical that you identify your fears and share this with your dentist or another health care professional. If you experience dental anxiety or phobia, here are some tips to ensure you maintain your oral health and receive comfortable dental care. Prevention and the mouth-body connection The best way to avoid complex dental procedures and pain is to regularly visit your dentist. Not only will your dentist diagnose problems and help you prevent future issues, but he or she will also help manage your oral health as part of your general health. Your mouth is the gateway to your body. For example, people with type 2 diabetes are more likely to have periodontitis, a type of bone and gum disease, which could lead to tooth loss. In fact, studies have shown that controlling diabetes can help control gum and bone health, and vice versa. Managing pain Many people fear the dentist because they are afraid of pain. There are several ways to manage this during and after dental treatment. Most commonly, dentists will use topical and local anesthesia. Topical anesthesia is a numbing gel that can help ease the insertion of a thin needle used to deliver local anesthesia. The local anesthesia will take effect within minutes, typically last for several hours, and numbs just the area that your dentist needs to complete the procedure. Furthermore, depending on the type of procedure, your dentist may advise one or more of the following to minimize pain and swelling after your visit: ice, oral rinses, over-the-counter pain medication (such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen), or prescription medication. Following these directions is critical to your recovery. Managing anxiety It is highly encouraged that you explore a combination of the following options to reduce dental anxiety prior to considering medications. Relaxation exercises such as focused breathing and meditation can successfully slow your heart rate and put you at ease. Many people find bringing distractions to the dental chair to be effective. Examples include headphones for music or podcasts, and a stress relief ball that can be squeezed with your hands to release tension during the procedure. Additionally, some patients find comfort in bringing a friend or family member to the appointment. Another approach, cognitive behavioral therapy (which is also used for other forms of phobias), aims to change both negative thoughts and actions. Consult your dentist or another health care professional to find out what option is best for you. Medications to reduce dental anxiety There are several ways that your dentist can help reduce your anxiety with medications through different levels of sedation. Your dentist may prescribe anti-anxiety drugs, such as diazepam (Valium), that you can take one hour before a scheduled dental visit. Your dentist may also recommend conscious sedation, such as nitrous oxide (or “laughing gas”), which can help calm nerves. You will still have control over your bodily functions, and this medication is applied only during the procedure. Lastly, general anesthesia, which puts you into a deep sleep, may be recommended for more invasive surgeries of the jaw, or for those with special needs or severe anxiety that prevents routine care from being possible. Some of these options may not be advised depending on your medical health, so be sure to tell your dentist about your health conditions and medications. Take-away messages Ultimately, managing your dental anxiety will involve a combination of the above options. Talk with your dentist and explain exactly what makes you nervous about the visit. Your dentist will do a careful review of your medical history in order to make safe recommendations while considering your overall health. And lastly, visit your dentist regularly even if you are not in dental pain. This is the best way to prevent painful experiences and more complex and costly procedures. About the Author Tien Jiang, DMD, MEd, Contributor Dr. Tien Jiang received her bachelor of arts from Dartmouth College in linguistics and French. She then pursued dentistry at the Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM). While a pre-doctoral student, Dr. Jiang became interested in … See Full Bio View all posts by Tien Jiang, DMD, MEd Share This Page Share this page to Facebook Share this page to Twitter Share this page via Email Print This Page Click to Print Disclaimer: As a service to our readers, Harvard Health Publishing provides access to our library of archived content. Please note the date of last review or update on all articles. No content on this site, regardless of date, should ever be used as a substitute for direct medical advice from your doctor or other qualified clinician. Comments Julington Creek dentist December 21, 2019 Dental anxiety is quite common. There can be many issues that might influence a person’s ability to handle the needles and dental pain. It is necessary to clear your mind regarding the dental treatments you are dealing with. Thanks for providing this wonderful information here. Surely, this will help many people. azure December 19, 2019 ‘This is the best way to prevent painful experiences and more complex and costly procedures.” Only marginally, as you age (or so I’ve been told by dentists) your gums inevitably recede which means expensive procedures. Commenting has been closed for this post. You might also be interested in… Anxiety and Stress Disorders Everyone worries or gets scared sometimes. But if you feel extremely worried or afraid much of the time, or if you repeatedly feel panicky, you may have an anxiety disorder. Anxiety disorders are among the most common mental illnesses, affecting roughly 40 million American adults each year. This Special Health Report, Anxiety and Stress Disorders, discusses the latest and most effective treatment approaches, including cognitive behavioral therapies, psychotherapy, and medications. A special section delves into alternative treatments for anxiety, such as relaxation techniques, mindfulness meditation, and biofeedback. Read More Staying Healthy The senior’s guide to dental care Heart Health Gum disease and heart health: Probing the link Mind & Mood Tooth loss associated with cognitive impairment, dementia Free Healthbeat Signup Get the latest in health news delivered to your inbox! Newsletter Signup Sign Up Footer Harvard Health Publishing Facebook Twitter Linkedin YouTube My Account Customer Service Log in Order Now Online Learning Courses Digital Subscriptions Special Health Reports Print Subscriptions More About Us Permissions Content Licensing Topics © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College Do not sell my personal information | Privacy Policy Scroll To Top Close Thanks for visiting. Don't miss your FREE gift. The Best Diets for Cognitive Fitness, is yours absolutely FREE when you sign up to receive Health Alerts from Harvard Medical School Sign up to get tips for living a healthy lifestyle, with ways to fight inflammation and improve cognitive health, plus the latest advances in preventative medicine, diet and exercise, pain relief, blood pressure and cholesterol management, and more. I want to get healthier Close Health Alerts from Harvard Medical School Get helpful tips and guidance for everything from fighting inflammation to finding the best diets for weight loss...from exercises to build a stronger core to advice on treating cataracts. PLUS, the latest news on medical advances and breakthroughs from Harvard Medical School experts. BONUS! Sign up now and get a FREE copy of the Best Diets for Cognitive Fitness I want to get healthier Close Stay on top of latest health news from Harvard Medical School. Plus, get a FREE copy of the Best Diets for Cognitive Fitness. Sign me up