Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search About the Vice Provost for Research Research Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Promote Your Event Additional Resources Contact Us Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator About the Vice Provost for Research Research Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Promote Your Event Additional Resources Contact Us $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Sign up for a Listserv AAA About the Vice Provost for Research Research Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Promote Your Event Additional Resources Contact Us Research Listservs The Office of the Vice Provost for Research maintains several e-mail distribution lists (listservs) for the University community. Send to the lists by clicking on the links below. If you would like to join any of the lists, search for them on listserv.miami.edu, or email vprs@miami.edu. You can unsubscribe from the lists at any time. If you have an event you'd like to promote through our listservs, check out our guide to submitting events to ensure that they are included in our weekly round-up of events and on the research & scholarship events calendar. The community listservs divided by subject area are where to send invitations to events on a specific topic, or if you'd like to ask colleagues for a specific resource. These lists are unmoderated: any member of the list can send to the list. The RESEARCH-MEDICAL listserv is used for formal communciations from Medical and Research leadership. If you have an event or announcement you would like to send to this list, it will go to a moderation queue before it is released. You can also email vprs@miami.edu to submit items for this list. The RESEARCH-ALL listserv includes all members of the other listservs. If you sign up for a community listserv or the RESEARCH-MEDICAL listserv, you're signed up for occasional emails to the entire research community via RESEARCH-ALL. If you have an event or announcement you would like to send to this list, it will go to a moderation queue before it is released. You can also email vprs@miami.edu to submit items for this list. Community Listserv Address Types of Messages Biological Sciences RESEARCH-BIO_SCI@LISTSERV.MIAMI.EDU Events, announcements, and other messages and requests from researchers and scholars in the biological sciences. This list is unmoderated: anyone on the list can send to the list. Communication and Education RESEARCH-COMM_ED@LISTSERV.MIAMI.EDU Events, announcements, and other messages and requests from researchers and scholars in communication and education. This list is unmoderated: anyone on the list can send to the list. Computer and Information Science RESEARCH-COMP_IS@LISTSERV.MIAMI.EDU Events, announcements, and other messages and requests from researchers and scholars in the computer and information sciences. This list is unmoderated: anyone on the list can send to the list. Engineering RESEARCH-ENG@LISTSERV.MIAMI.EDU Events, announcements, and other messages and requests from researchers and scholars in engineering. This list is unmoderated: anyone on the list can send to the list. Geosciences, Mathematical and Physical Sciences RESEARCH-GEO_MATH_PHYS@LISTSERV.MIAMI.EDU Events, announcements, and other messages and requests from researchers and scholars in the geosciences, mathematical and physical sciences. This list is unmoderated: anyone on the list can send to the list. Humanities, Fine Arts and Creative Endeavors RESEARCH-HUMANITIES@LISTSERV.MIAMI.EDU Events, announcements, and other messages and requests from researchers and scholars in the humanities, fine arts and creative endeavors. This list is unmoderated: anyone on the list can send to the list. Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences RESEARCH-SOCIAL_SCI@LISTSERV.MIAMI.EDU Events, announcements, and other messages and requests from researchers and scholars in the social, behavioral and economic sciences. This list is unmoderated: anyone on the list can send to the list. Medical Research RESEARCH-MEDICAL@LISTSERV.MIAMI.EDU Formal communications from Medical and Research leadership, this list is moderated to limit messages, as it has over 1,000 subscribers from the UM Medical community. Please email vprs@miami.edu when you submit to the list for approval or for the VPRS to send on your behalf. General Research Notices RESEARCH-ALL@LISTSERV.MIAMI.EDU Formal communications from Medical and Research leadership, this list is moderated to limit messages, as it has nearly 10,000 subscribers from all over the University. Please email vprs@miami.edu to submit items for this audience, or go to promote your event. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices