Skip to main content UCF Online Menu Online Programs Online BachelorsOnline Graduate DegreesOnline MastersOnline Graduate CertificatesOnline DoctoratesOnline Minors Areas of Interest Criminal JusticeEducationEngineeringHealthcareHospitalityLeadership and ManagementNursingPublic Service and Community Support Admissions Transfer AdmissionsGraduate AdmissionsInternational AdmissionsMilitary Admissions Tuition Tuition and CostsFinancial AidScholarshipsFee Waiver Student Support Online Student ResourcesTuition Support ScholarshipsUCF Online Connect CenterLearning OnlineDownloads Accredited Online Degree Programs Request Information Name* First Last Phone* Email* Degree* Aerospace Engineering, MSAEAnthropology, BAApplied Learning and Instruction, MAApplied PhotonicsArt Education, MATAutism Spectrum DisordersCareer and Technical Education, BSCareer and Workforce Education, MACivil Engineering, MS (Smart Cities)Civil Engineering, MS (Structural)Civil Engineering, MS (Transportation)Civil Engineering, MS (Water Resources)Civil Engineering, MSCECollege Teaching and LeadershipCommunication and Conflict, BAConflict Resolution and AnalysisCorrections LeadershipCrime AnalysisCriminal Justice, BA/BSCriminal Justice, MSCurriculum and Instruction, EdDData AnalyticsData ModelingDestination Marketing and ManagementDigital Forensics, MSe-Learning Design, Development, & DeliveryEducational Leadership, MAElementary Education, MEdEmergency and Crisis Management, MECMEngineering Management, MSEnglish - Creative Writing, BAEnglish - Literature, BAEnglish - Technical Communication, BAEnglish - Technical Communication, MAEnvironmental Engineering, MS & MSVEEvent Leadership, MSEvent ManagementExceptional Student Education – Learning & Language, BSExceptional Student Education, MEdExecutive Master of Health Administration, EMHAFinancial Management for the Hospitality and Tourism IndustryFinancial MathematicsFinTech, MSForensic Science, MSFundraisingGender StudiesGifted EducationGuidance Control and DynamicsHealth Informatics and Information Management, BSHealth Services Administration, BSHealthcare SimulationHealthcare Systems Engineering CertificateHealthcare Systems Engineering, MSHistory, BAHospitality and Tourism Management, MSHospitality and Tourism TechnologiesHospitality Management, BSIndustrial Engineering, MSIndustrial Engineering, MSIEInitial Teacher Professional PreparationInstructional / Educational TechnologyInstructional DesignInstructional Design and Technology, MAInstructional Design for SimulationsIntegrative General Studies, BGSInterdisciplinary Studies, BA (Diversity Studies Leadership)Interdisciplinary Studies, BA/BSInternational and Global Studies, BAJuvenile Justice LeadershipLatin American Studies, BALeadership and Strategy in Hospitality and TourismLegal Studies, BA/BSLocal Director of Career & Technical EducationLodging and Restaurant Management, BSMaster of Public Administration, MPAMaster of Science in Healthcare InformaticsMaster of Social Work OnlineMaster of Social Work Online: Advanced StandingMaterials Science and Engineering, MSMSEMathematical ScienceMechanical Engineering, MSMENonprofit ManagementNonprofit Management (MNM) - Public Administration Dual DegreeNonprofit Management, MNMNursing EducationNursing Practice, DNP, Advanced TrackNursing Practice, DNP, Executive TrackNursing, BSNursing, BSN to PhDNursing, MSNNursing, PhDOptical Image SystemsOptics and Photonics, MSPolice LeadershipPolitical Science, BAPre-Kindergarten DisabilitiesProfessional Writing Graduate CertificateProject EngineeringPsychology, BSPublic AdministrationQuality AssuranceReading Education, MEdReligion and Cultural Studies, BAResearch Administration CertificateResearch Administration, MRASenior Living Management, BSSocial Sciences, BSSociology, BA/BSSpecial EducationSystems EngineeringSystems Engineering, MSSETheoretical and Applied EthicsTravel Technology and Analytics, MSUndecided/Unsure Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Request Info Privacy Notice Search by Degree or Career Path With more than 20 years of innovation in educational technology, and over 100 fully online degrees to choose from, UCF Online provides high-quality distance learning options through our nationally ranked online courses and programs for both undergraduate and graduate students. UCF Online is focused on providing students the options to study a degree at UCF when and where they want, without having to attend any campus-based classes. Online Bachelor's Anthropology, BA Career and Technical Education, BS Communication and Conflict, BA Criminal Justice, BA/BS English - Creative Writing, BA English - Literature, BA English - Technical Communication, BA Exceptional Student Education – Learning & Language, BS Health Informatics and Information Management, BS Health Services Administration, BS History, BA Hospitality Management, BS Integrative General Studies, BGS Interdisciplinary Studies, BA (Diversity Studies Leadership) Interdisciplinary Studies, BA/BS International and Global Studies, BA Latin American Studies, BA Legal Studies, BA/BS Lodging and Restaurant Management, BS Nursing, BS Political Science, BA Psychology, BS Religion and Cultural Studies, BA Senior Living Management, BS Social Sciences, BS Sociology, BA/BS Online Master's Aerospace Engineering, MSAE Applied Learning and Instruction, MA Art Education, MAT Career and Workforce Education, MA Civil Engineering, MS (Smart Cities) Civil Engineering, MS (Structural) Civil Engineering, MS (Transportation) Civil Engineering, MS (Water Resources) Civil Engineering, MSCE Criminal Justice, MS Digital Forensics, MS Educational Leadership, MA Elementary Education, MEd Emergency and Crisis Management, MECM Engineering Management, MS English - Technical Communication, MA Environmental Engineering, MS & MSVE Event Leadership, MS Exceptional Student Education, MEd Executive Master of Health Administration, EMHA FinTech, MS Forensic Science, MS Healthcare Systems Engineering, MS Hospitality and Tourism Management, MS Industrial Engineering, MS Industrial Engineering, MSIE Instructional Design and Technology, MA Master of Public Administration, MPA Master of Science in Healthcare Informatics Master of Social Work Online Master of Social Work Online: Advanced Standing Materials Science and Engineering, MSMSE Mechanical Engineering, MSME Nonprofit Management (MNM) - Public Administration Dual Degree Nonprofit Management, MNM Nursing, MSN Optics and Photonics, MS Reading Education, MEd Research Administration, MRA Systems Engineering, MSSE Travel Technology and Analytics, MS Online Certificate Applied Photonics Autism Spectrum Disorders College Teaching and Leadership Conflict Resolution and Analysis Corrections Leadership Crime Analysis Data Analytics Data Modeling Destination Marketing and Management e-Learning Design, Development, & Delivery Event Management Financial Management for the Hospitality and Tourism Industry Financial Mathematics Fundraising Gender Studies Gifted Education Guidance Control and Dynamics Healthcare Simulation Healthcare Systems Engineering Certificate Hospitality and Tourism Technologies Initial Teacher Professional Preparation Instructional / Educational Technology Instructional Design Instructional Design for Simulations Juvenile Justice Leadership Leadership and Strategy in Hospitality and Tourism Local Director of Career & Technical Education Mathematical Science Nonprofit Management Nursing Education Optical Image Systems Police Leadership Pre-Kindergarten Disabilities Professional Writing Graduate Certificate Project Engineering Public Administration Quality Assurance Research Administration Certificate Special Education Systems Engineering Theoretical and Applied Ethics Online Doctorate Curriculum and Instruction, EdD Nursing Practice, DNP, Advanced Track Nursing Practice, DNP, Executive Track Nursing, BSN to PhD Nursing, PhD Frequently Asked Questions about Accredited Online Degree Programs Online Programs What is an online program or degree? A fully online degree program is a course of study that is completed with no face-to-face on-campus instruction. Courses within a fully online program can be synchronous (instruction and learning happening at the same time), asynchronous (instruction available on demand), or even experiential (off-site internships). UCF offers more than 90 degree programs fully online, including 20+ online bachelor degrees, 30+ online master’s degrees, 30+ online graduate certificates, and 3 online doctorates. Should I get my degree online? Deciding on whether to get your degree online or on campus should depend on your specific needs and wants. The advantage of an online degree is that it offers more flexibility than the on-campus/in-person option. Many courses offer on-demand instruction, allowing you to study when and where it suits you and your schedule. Class participation is conducted through a series of discussion boards and online assignments with scheduled due dates. Flexibility in scheduling and learning on demand however does require a degree of commitment, determination and responsibility. UCF Online graduates identify time management as one of their biggest barriers to overcome. As a UCF Online student, you are provided a personal success coach to support you with managing life and schooling. What is the difference between an online degree and an in-person degree? A UCF Online degree offers greater flexibility than an in-person degree as it ensures that you will have a fully online course load throughout your entire degree program. While many on-campus students are offered the option to take some of their course load online, there are often requirements for these students to be on campus at a pre-determined date and time to attend class. An online degree, however, removes the need to go to campus, and ensures that you will always have the flexibility of studying online while pursuing the degree program you are in. Online degrees from UCF also cost less than the same in-person degrees. UCF Online students are provided a waiver for some campus-based fees that reduces the cost per credit hour for courses. UCF Online undergraduate students save $33.09 per credit hour. UCF Online graduate students save $42.33 per credit hour. In terms of instruction and rigor, UCF’s online courses are taught by the same instructors who teach in-person courses. Many online courses are blended with online degree students and in-person degree students. This structure helps to ensure that you receive the same quality education regardless of how you choose your degree experience. What careers can I explore with an online degree? UCF’s online degree programs combine an outstanding learning experience with personalized convenience and flexibility — plus the empowering ability to advance your career and create your own success. We’ve identified over 690 career paths and titles related to UCF Online degrees, including expanding career sectors such as criminal justice, education, engineering and hospitality. Are online degrees harder than in-person degrees? In terms of content, no. UCF often blends students from all degree experiences in online classes. This ensures that everyone receives a quality education regardless of how they chose to experience their degree. However, UCF Online graduates often cite time management and personal responsibility as the biggest obstacles to overcome while pursuing a degree online. The freedom and flexibility to study when and where it suits you that comes with an online degree program can also require a lot of self-discipline and time management. To help students stay on track and achieve their goals, UCF Online provides you with a personal success coach who will support you in balancing your education and other life responsibilities. Can I come to campus if I pursue a degree online? Absolutely. The UCF main campus is a public space and welcomes all types of visitors. As a UCF Online student, you are also welcome to use many of the campus’ student resources, including the library, writing center and study spaces. However, due to the fee waiver, UCF Online students are unable to use the Student Health Center or the Recreation and Wellness Centers. A full list of campus restrictions can be found on our Online Student Guidelines page. Can I participate in graduation? Yes. Receiving your degree is one of the most important memories you can make. All graduating UCF Online students are encouraged to participate in the graduation ceremony. After all, you earned those cheers. Will I have to be online at a certain time during my online degree? Most online courses do not require you to be online at a given time. However, some courses may require group work or experiential learning opportunities. These experiences may ask you to make certain times available to complete work. It is best to ask your success coach, academic advisor or program coordinator if your program of study requires an internship or practicum so you may best plan for your future. Is an online degree right for me? Different degree experiences suit different people. The online degree experience suits students who like flexibility in their course of study in order to meet their life needs. The following are attributes of successful online students. Students are familiar with basic computer competencies The central point of interaction for students in an online degree program will be through the computer. You will need to be able to comfortably use a computer to be successful. Skills required include: browsing managing files using word processing, presentation and spreadsheet software Students have access to a reliable computer and internet As the coursework for an online degree is entirely internet-based, it is important to have access to a reliable computer and internet. Additionally, you should develop a backup plan in case one – or both – of these break down. Identify areas with safe, secure wireless connections that can be your back-up emergency internet solution. It is also important to back up all school work in a safe location. UCF Online students have access to Microsoft’s OneDrive to store all their school work. Students are able to schedule time to dedicate to coursework The flexibility of an online degree is one of its biggest strengths – you can fit schoolwork into your busy schedule. UCF Online students have stated that scheduling a dedicated, consistent time to complete schoolwork – whether it’s early in the morning, during lunch hour, or after the kids have been put to bed – was the key to being successful in their online degree program. Students are able to track and meet obligations, appointments and due dates In addition to having a dedicated, consistent time to complete work, it is also important to stay on top of all assignments and their due dates. Using a digital planner or calendar can make or break your online experience. UCF Online’s learning system provides access to a calendar that displays important due dates and events. You can even import it into your preferred digital calendar so that information is with you wherever you go. Students have confidence in writing skills Finally, confidence in your writing skills will go a long way. The primary mode of communication with fellow students and instructors will be written. It is important to be able to write clearly so that others can understand and respond. If you feel comfortable with these skills, an online degree program may be the right fit for you. View All FAQs Admissions General requirements for admission to UCF Online programs for both undergraduate and graduate students. Costs & Value UCF is ranked as a best-value university by Kiplinger’s, and one of the nation’s most affordable colleges by Forbes. Learn why. Get Connected. Contact the UCF Online Connect Center to learn more about the available online programs or for help finding an online degree that works for you. Hours of Operation: Mon – Fri: 8 a.m. – 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Call Now Why earn a degree from UCF Online? Access. Innovation. Impact. UCF Online is a community of thinkers, helpers and makers who use bold ideas to challenge the ordinary and devise solutions to solve the world’s most pressing problems. A great university can unleash the potential to change the world. Listed as one of the most innovative universities in the nation by the U.S. News & World Report’s Best Colleges 2021 Guide, UCF specializes in providing high-quality online degree programs for those talented students and working professionals who are unable to physically attend our Orlando main campus or one of our 14 Central Florida locations. Online Degree Programs Online Bachelor’s Online Master’s Online Graduate Certificates Online Doctorates Online Minors Top Online Healthcare Programs Top Online Engineering Programs Top Online Hospitality Programs Top Online Public Service Degrees Top Online Leadership & Management Degrees Top Online Education Degrees Admissions Info Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Military Admissions Tuition Tuition and Costs Financial Aid Fee Waiver Student Support Online Student Resources UCF Online Connect Center All Student Resources Learning Online Downloads Complaint Submission About UCF Videos Accreditation About UCF News Top Online Degree Rankings Privacy Notice Contact Us Faculty Support 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 Call today • 855-903-8576 Hours of Operation: Mon - Fri: 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube State Restrictions Complaint Resolution © 2022 University of Central Florida