Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Center for Campus Life Menu Search TTU Center for Campus Life Texas Tech Center for Campus Life Welcome to the Center for Campus Life! We offer a variety of ways for you to get involved at TTU! You can join a student organization, become a leader on campus, join a fraternity or sorority, attend a leadership workshop, volunteer to give back to the community, and so much more! Want to learn about TTU traditions such as the Masked Rider and Raider Red, check out our spirit program! We invite you to experience TTU and get involved on campus! The Center for Campus Life and its areas can be reached during regular business hours (Monday-Friday, from 8:00 am - 5:00 pm) at 806-742-5433 or by email at campuslife@ttu.edu. Follow our many social media accounts for updates. The Center for Campus Life is dedicated to student well-being: Beyond Okay - A Guide for Mental Well-Being at TTU Areas under the CCL Student Involvement | Fraternity & Sorority Life Spirit Program | Red to Black Peer Financial Coaching Raider Red's Food Pantry Student Involvement Define your Red Raider experience by getting involved with Student Involvement! Check out and join our over 550 unique, student organizations on campus. Engage and grow through leadership development opportunities and experiences. Join other students in various service opportunities within the Texas Tech and Lubbock communities! Explore all the students organizations on TechConnect! Fraternity and Sorority Life With over 4,500 students that make up 17% of the student body, Fraternity and Sorority Life is committed to scholarship, leadership, brotherhood/sisterhood, and civic engagement. Involvement on campus and in the Lubbock community, leadership development opportunities, and life-long friendships make Greek life one of the most memorable aspects of a student's experience at Texas Tech University. Spirit Program The Texas Tech Spirit Program leads fans and serves as ambassadors of Texas Tech. The program is represented by our All-Girl Cheer, CoEd Cheer, Pom Squad, Stunt Team, the Raider Red Program, and the Masked Rider Program. The Spirit Program members take pride in knowing that they are an essential part of such a wonderful tradition! Red to Black Peer Financial Coaching Red to Black® Peer Financial Coaching is a nationally recognized model program staffed by students pursuing Personal Financial Planning degrees. We provide financial education and awareness to students through individual coaching sessions, presentations, outreach booths and resource referrals. Topics covered include creating spending plans, building and using credit wisely, maximizing student loans, and choosing employee benefits. Raider Red's Food Pantry Raider Red's Food Pantry is a donation-based food pantry available to TTU students experiencing food insecurity. The pantry will provide students with short-term access to supplemental food and also connect students with resources on and off campus in an effort to support student well-being. Important Announcements Anti-Hazing Information & Prevention Follow Campus Life Latest Tweets! A Twitter List by TTUStudentOrgs Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Center for Campus Life Like Center for Campus Life on FacebookLike Center for Campus Life on Facebook Follow Center for Campus Life on twitterFollow Center for Campus Life on twitter Follow Center for Campus Life on InstagramFollow Center for Campus Life on Instagram Address 201 Student Union Bldg MS 45014 Phone 806.742.5433 Email campuslife@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityOct 7, 2021 8:47 AM Center for Campus Life About Center for Campus Life About Back Staff Center for Campus Life About Back Director Staff Directory Areas under CCL Center for Campus Life About Back Student Involvement Fraternity and Sorority Life Spirit Program Red to Black Peer Financial Coaching Raider Red's Food Pantry Events@TexasTech General Information Center for Campus Life Back Texas Tech Student Handbook Ground Use & Solicitation Resources Center for Campus Life Back Dean of Students Student Affairs Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) Student Counseling Center Parent and Family Relations Responsible Community Living Center for Campus Life Responsible Community Living Back Optional Renters Insurance Important Documents and Guides Center for Campus Life Back Annual Clery Campus Security Report Students in Distress: A Guide for Faculty and Staff Reporting & Resources Related to Sexual Violence Anti-Hazing Information and Prevention Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index