Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Department of Public Safety Menu Police BUPD General Information BUPD Mission Enforcement Authority Employment Information Employment Guidelines FAQ's External Resources Accreditation Crime Victim Resource Information BUPD Sexual Violence Response Commitment Clery Act Information Campus Crime & Fire Log Annual Fire Safety and Security Report Offices to Report Crimes Clery Act Policies CSA Incident Report Clery Geography Programs and Services Crime Free Multi-Housing Civilian Response to Active Shooter Events (CRASE) Active Shooter Training Active Shooter Training: Introduction BU Campus Guardian Lost and Found Bicycle Registration Special Event Staffing Request Late Hour Transportation Baylor University Shuttle Service Safe Place Exchange Med-Return Drug Disposal Kiosk Public Information Act (Open Records) Contacting BUPD How to Report a Crime Anonymous Tips Form Comment About Baylor Police Filing a Complaint Emergency Management & Fire Safety Baylor Alert Emergency Guide Tornado Fire Safety Policies & Permits Weather Information Parking & Transportation Students Student Permits Order a Permit Refunds Free Ferrell Lot 1 8th Street Garage Lot 3 Allen Hall Surface Lot 21 5th Street Garage Lot 40 East Campus Garage Lot 45 Dutton Garage Lot 2 Panhellenic Lot 6 Armstrong Browning Lot 30 7th and James Church Lot 37 Speight Garage Permits Law School Permits Text Alerts Alternative Transportation Baylor University Shuttle Service Bicycle Motorcycles Mopeds Zipcar Faculty/Staff Visitors Visitor Parking Permit Regulations & Enforcement Enforcement Communication Citation List Towing Appeals Persons with Disabilities ID Cards Contact Information Garage Clearance Baylor Garage Counter Map Technical Security Call Boxes and Emergency Telephones Card Access System Camera Network Intrusion and Duress Alarm Systems Global Safety & Security Register Your Travel Global Safety and Security Policy Emergencies Abroad Medical Emergencies Safety Emergencies Emergency Messages Victim of Crime Abroad Arrest and Detention Abroad Emergency Contact & Parental Notification Health, Safety and Security Travel Health Travel Safety Travel Security Resources Links to Resources About Contact Us Office Goals Committees, Associations & Networks News Baylor>Department of Public Safety>Global Safety & Security>News News Message from the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, U.S. Department of State As the USA Study Abroad team, we wanted to share a message below from Ethan Rosenzweig, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Academic Programs of the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs at the U.S. Department of State on COVID-19 Travel Advisory Updates and a media note. Please see below: Throughout the pandemic, we are grateful for your continued support and feedback on facilitating global learning opportunities in a safe manner. I am pleased to share news from our colleagues in the State Department's Bureau of Consular Affairs (CA) of an important change in how the location-specific Travel Advisory for U.S. citizens will be determined moving forward. Specifically, Travel Advisory levels will no longer be automatically correlated with the CDC COVID-19 Travel Health Notice levels - a shift that should reduce the number of locations at a Level 4: Do Not Travel advisory from currently more than half of all locations worldwide to approximately 10% of locations. As described in the media notice below, these changes to the advisories should begin this week. Although conditions have recently improved, the COVID-19 pandemic is not over. We encourage you to follow CA's social media for the latest international travel safety information and consider sharing their recent post about this change on both Facebook and Twitter. As always, we continue to encourage American study abroad students to monitor Covid conditions in their destination country and visit U.S. embassies' covid webpages. We at the State Department appreciate the input and feedback from the higher education and study abroad communities regarding the Travel Advisory system. Our approach to international education and study abroad reflects the goals of the Joint Statement of Principles in Support of International Education that was issued in July 2021 by the State Department and the Department of Education, with the support of the Departments of Commerce and Homeland Security and subsequent endorsement by the U.S. Agency for International Development. We hope this news will have a welcome impact on American student mobility. We remain dedicated to increasing and diversifying U.S. study abroad through our programs and initiatives, including the Fulbright Program, the Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship Program, the Critical Language Scholarship Program, and the IDEAS (Increase and Diversify Education Abroad for U.S. Students) Program. Thank you for your continued partnership and support, and please share this news with your networks. I am honored to work with you. My best, Ethan Ethan Rosenzweig Deputy Assistant Secretary Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs U.S. Department of State ----------------------------------------- U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE Office of the Spokesperson For Immediate Release MEDIA NOTE April 14, 2022 COVID-19 Travel Advisory Updates The Department of State has no greater responsibility than the safety and security of U.S. citizens overseas. We are committed to providing U.S. citizens with up-to-date and timely information, so they are informed as they make international travel plans and when they are abroad. Given the increases in international travel, the availability of effective COVID-19 mitigation measures, and recently announced changes to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) COVID-19 Travel Health Notice (THN) process, we have reassessed how COVID-19 considerations factor into our Travel Advisory levels for U.S. citizens. Starting next week, the State Department Travel Advisory levels will no longer automatically correlate with the CDC COVID-19 THN level. However, if the CDC raises a country's COVID-19 THN to a Level 4, the State Department's Travel Advisory for that country will also be raised to a Level 4: Do Not Travel due to COVID-19. This update will leave approximately 10% of all Travel Advisories at Level 4: Do Not Travel. This 10% includes Level 4 Travel Advisories for all risk indicators, not just COVID-19. We believe the updated framework will help U.S. citizens make better informed decisions about the safety of international travel. Although conditions have recently improved, the COVID-19 pandemic is not over. We continue to advise travelers to consider COVID-19 conditions and restrictions at their destinations when considering international travel. Our embassies and consulates around the world will continue to provide the latest country-specific COVID-19-related information on their websites. To see the latest State Department Travel Advisories for any country in the world, visit travel.state.gov. We encourage U.S. citizens who are considering international travel this summer to check their passport expiration date and act now to renew or apply for the first time. Keep in mind many countries require passports to have at least six months' remaining validity for entry. Routine passport processing can take eight to eleven weeks. For information on U.S. passports, please visit travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports.html. Best Regards, USA Study Abroad Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs U.S. Department of State studyabroad@state.gov Global Safety & Security Register Your Travel Global Safety and Security Policy Emergencies Abroad Medical Emergencies Safety Emergencies Emergency Messages Victim of Crime Abroad Arrest and Detention Abroad Emergency Contact & Parental Notification Health, Safety and Security Travel Health Current Health Conditions Dietary Requirements Health Insurance for Leisure Travel Immunizations and Prophylactic Medications Mental Health Abroad Reimbursement for Care Staying Healthy Abroad Traveling with Medications Travelers with Disabilities Travel Stress or Shock Preventing Insect Bites Travel Safety Alcohol and Drug Use Crime Deterrence Road Safety Water Safety Fire Safety Identity and Diversity Taking Pictures Guidelines for Evaluating the Safety of Lodgings Abroad Travel Security Surveillance Evacuation Evaluating the U.S. Department of State Travel Advisory System Handling Your Finances Non-U.S. Citizens Traveling Abroad Risk Management Securing Electronic Devices Sports and Entertainment Venue Security Recommendations Terrorism and Travel Travel Modification or Suspension Travel Rights, Regulations and Restrictions Communicating While Abroad Resources Links to Resources About Contact Us Office Goals Committees, Associations & Networks News Department of Public Safety Speight Plaza Parking Facility 1521 S. 4th St. Waco, TX 76706 Parking Matters: 254.710.7275 Non-Emergency: 254.710.2211 Emergency: 254.710.2222 Police Emergency Management & Fire Safety Parking & Transportation Technical Security Global Safety & Security General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Police BUPD General Information BUPD Mission Enforcement Authority Employment Information Employment Guidelines FAQ's External Resources Accreditation Crime Victim Resource Information BUPD Sexual Violence Response Commitment Clery Act Information Campus Crime & Fire Log Annual Fire Safety and Security Report Offices to Report Crimes Clery Act Policies CSA Incident Report Clery Geography Programs and Services Crime Free Multi-Housing Civilian Response to Active Shooter Events (CRASE) Active Shooter Training Active Shooter Training: Introduction BU Campus Guardian Lost and Found Bicycle Registration Special Event Staffing Request Late Hour Transportation Baylor University Shuttle Service Safe Place Exchange Med-Return Drug Disposal Kiosk Public Information Act (Open Records) Contacting BUPD How to Report a Crime Anonymous Tips Form Comment About Baylor Police Filing a Complaint Emergency Management & Fire Safety Baylor Alert Emergency Guide Tornado Fire Safety Policies & Permits Weather Information Parking & Transportation Students Student Permits Order a Permit Refunds Free Ferrell Lot 1 8th Street Garage Lot 3 Allen Hall Surface Lot 21 5th Street Garage Lot 40 East Campus Garage Lot 45 Dutton Garage Lot 2 Panhellenic Lot 6 Armstrong Browning Lot 30 7th and James Church Lot 37 Speight Garage Permits Law School Permits Text Alerts Alternative Transportation Baylor University Shuttle Service Bicycle Motorcycles Mopeds Zipcar Faculty/Staff Visitors Visitor Parking Permit Regulations & Enforcement Enforcement Communication Citation List Towing Appeals Persons with Disabilities ID Cards Contact Information Garage Clearance Baylor Garage Counter Map Technical Security Call Boxes and Emergency Telephones Card Access System Camera Network Intrusion and Duress Alarm Systems Global Safety & Security Register Your Travel Global Safety and Security Policy Emergencies Abroad Medical Emergencies Safety Emergencies Emergency Messages Victim of Crime Abroad Arrest and Detention Abroad Emergency Contact & Parental Notification Health, Safety and Security Travel Health Travel Safety Travel Security Resources Links to Resources About Contact Us Office Goals Committees, Associations & Networks News