Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Provost Provost right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet the Provost right arrow down arrow Event Request Form Leadership Committees Next Lives Here Initiatives right arrow down arrow COACHE Textbook Affordability UC Women Lead Program Dual Career Assistance Program Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program Decanal Searches Faculty right arrow down arrow Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure right arrow down arrow eRPT Collective Bargaining Agreement Resources right arrow down arrow Faculty Retention Program Proposal Process right arrow down arrow Distance Learning Programs Adjunct Resources Leaves of Absence Associations right arrow down arrow Latino Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Members Resources Events & Photo Gallery News Emeriti Association right arrow down arrow Membership LGBTQ Faculty and Staff Association Black Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Resources Events and News Committees Photo Gallery The Academy of Fellows - AFTL right arrow down arrow Members, Eligibility & Benefits Journal for Research & Practice in College Teaching Faculty Enrichment Center right arrow down arrow Programming and Resources Colleges and Offices right arrow down arrow Colleges Offices right arrow down arrow Faculty Affairs & Academic Personnel Enrollment Management Graduate School The Office of Institutional Research right arrow down arrow Facts & Dashboards College Financial Reporting Survey Research & Consulting Resources Contact Us UC International IT @ UC Student Affairs Undergraduate Studies right arrow down arrow Affiliated Offices Integrated Core Learning (ICL) General Education Core Contact Us Awards right arrow down arrow All-University Faculty Awards Home » About UC » Office of the Provost » Faculty » Resources » Program Proposal Process » Distance Learning Programs Set Navigation title in component Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure eRPT Collective Bargaining Agreement Resources Faculty Retention Program Proposal Process Distance Learning Programs Adjunct Resources Leaves of Absence Associations Latino Faculty Association About Members Resources Events & Photo Gallery News Emeriti Association Membership LGBTQ Faculty and Staff Association Black Faculty Association About Members Resources Events and News COBE Committees Scholarship Morale Career Advancement Photo Gallery The Academy of Fellows - AFTL Members, Eligibility & Benefits Journal for Research & Practice in College Teaching Faculty Enrichment Center Programming and Resources Distance Learning Programs The Ohio Department of Higher Education (ODHE) requires additional approvals when modifying or creating a program that will be considered "distance learning." The University is an institutional participant in the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (NC-SARA). SARA provides the university reciprocity compliance to conduct many (but not all) “trigger” activities in other NC-SARA member states. NC-SARA membership does not provide a means for approval with professional licensing boards for programs leading to state licensure or national certification. UC’s Distance Learning State Authorization compliance is administered by Cincinnati Online. Prior to launching the online program, please contact Dawn Clineman for consultation and additional information regarding state authorization and SARA. FAQ What is a distance learning program? right arrow down arrow The ODHE defines a distance learning program as a program in which most (80%) of the degree can be completed online. What is a blended/hybrid degree program? right arrow down arrow The ODHE defines a blended/hybrid degree program as a program that blends online and on-ground delivery; a substantial portion of the degree requirements are available online and there are a reduced number of face-to face meetings. What approvals are needed to offer an existing program online, either in addition to the on ground program or move the program to an online format? right arrow down arrow The ODHE must approve any program delivery change, even if the program is an existing program and there are no changes in the curriculum. The ODHE proposal form will need to be completed and submitted to the Academic Committee. If the program is a graduate program, it will first need to be submitted to the Graduate School for approval. For undergraduate programs, the proposal form can be found here. For graduate programs, the proposal form can be found here. Once approved by the Academic Committee, the Office of the Provost will submit the proposal to the ODHE for approval. Once the ODHE approves the distance learning component, the program director will be notified by the Office of the Provost and the program can then complete a New Academic Program Submission Form (PASLA form) in order to offer the program. What additional approvals are needed before launching the online program? right arrow down arrow Every state has authority to regulate institutions operating within the state’s boundaries, including online/distance learning. The need to seek “state authorization” for distance learning depends on a combination of the state’s laws and the activities that the program/institution is conducting in that state. For example, in some states, if coursework is 100% online and the program does not have “physical presence” in the state, authorization may not be required. However, activities that "trigger" presence vary from state-to-state and may include: solicitation; direct advertising and/or recruiting students; employing faculty in the state; students completing clinical, internships and/or field placements in the state; proctoring exams; and others. If a program includes any of one of these activities, state authorization may be required. Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top