Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Home Learn More About Los Angeles’ Top-Ranked University | UCLA Athletic Championships & Medals | Official Website | UCLAs Athletic Championships & Medals UCLA’s collegiate sports championship history stands out as one of the most impressive of any university in the nation. We proudly hold 119 NCAA team championships, an accomplishment that speaks to our commitment to excellence. Our student athletes consistently perform at an elite level, in their sports, studies and public service. It's this well-rounded approach that creates champions on the field and in the community. Our students, alumni and fans from all over rally around Bruin pride. 270 Olympic Medals 120+ Professional Athletes 119 NCAA Championships A Legacy That Inspires Destiny Beyond graduation day, and far from campus, Bruins continue to redefine the possible. John Wooden’s teachings have built a legacy that our athletic program has carried on ever since Coach’s arrival in 1949. He taught that true success is not found in the score at the end of the game. He preached preparation: that you be at your best when your best is required. He pushed student athletes to become better teammates and, more importantly, better people by upholding a code of honesty, integrity and loyalty. Coach Wooden’s “Pyramid of Success” also led to four undefeated seasons and 10 national championships — more than any other coach in college basketball history. From Jackie Robinson, Troy Aikman and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar to Ann Meyers Drysdale and Jackie Joyner-Kersee, UCLA alumni are icons, record breakers, award winners, world champions and game changers in that same mold. We’re the only university with a No. 1 overall pick in almost every major league draft and the only university whose student athletes have won the Heisman Trophy, the Wooden Award and the Golden Spikes Award. This tradition of excellence not only sets a standard of success for future athletes, it is a testament to what is expected of future generations at UCLA. Related UCLA Athletics UCLA Athletics Hall of Fame Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept