columbia_noon Apply Apply Menu Directory Search The School Dean’s Letter Faculty Administration News Events Student Work Media Archive Alumni Campaign Visit Contact Programs Architecture Master of Architecture M.S. Advanced Architectural Design M.S. Computational Design Practices M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices Ph.D. Architecture New York/Paris Intro to Architecture Urbanism M.S. Architecture and Urban Design M.S. Urban Planning Ph.D. Urban Planning Preservation M.S. Historic Preservation Ph.D. Historic Preservation Real Estate M.S. Real Estate Development Research Centers Labs Incubator Initiatives Exhibitions Publications Resources Academic Calendar Courses Faculty Resources Hybrid Pedagogy Guide Student Resources Policies & Resources Career Services COVID-19 Resources Student Organizations Facilities Avery Library Arthur Ross Architecture Gallery Making Studio Output Shop Preservation Technology Lab Admissions Thinking About Applying Application Process After You’re Admitted Tuition & Aid FAQ Give Apply A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z # A AIA CES Credits Lyla Catellier directory_staff Created with Sketch. /aiacescredits link_arrow Created with Sketch. AV Office 321M Fayerweather Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Christopher Day directory_staff Created with Sketch. /audio-video-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Abstract Publication 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Shannon Werle directory_staff Created with Sketch. /abstract link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Affairs 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /academic-affair… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Calendar, Columbia University http://registrar… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Calendar, GSAPP /academic-calend… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Admissions Office 407 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Steffen Boddeker directory_staff Created with Sketch. /admissions link_arrow Created with Sketch. Advanced Standing Waiver Form Must be printed and returned to 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://d37vpt3x… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Alumni Board /alumni/board link_arrow Created with Sketch. Alumni Office 405 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Leah Cohen, Jillian Barsalou Kincaid, Esther Turay, Leslie Kuo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /alumni/contact link_arrow Created with Sketch. Anti-Racism Curriculum Development Award /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Architecture Studio Lottery /architecture-st… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Assistantships /assistantships link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Library 300 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. http://library.c… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Review http://averyrevi… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Shorts http://www.avery… link_arrow Created with Sketch. B Black Student Alliance at Columbia GSAPP /bsa link_arrow Created with Sketch. Building Science & Technology Waivers /building-tech-w… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Bulletin Archive /bulletin-archiv… link_arrow Created with Sketch. C COVID-19 FAQ /covid-19-faq link_arrow Created with Sketch. COVID-19 Resources /covid-19-resour… link_arrow Created with Sketch. COVID-19 Resources for the Columbia Community https://covid19.… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Career Services 407 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /career-services… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Climate /climate link_arrow Created with Sketch. Columbia Books on Architecture and the City Isabelle Kirkham-Lewitt, Joanna Kloppenburg directory_staff Created with Sketch. /books link_arrow Created with Sketch. Commencement /commencement link_arrow Created with Sketch. Communications Office 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Steffen Boddeker, Shannon Werle, Lucy Krebsbach directory_staff Created with Sketch. /communications-… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Conversations podcast /conversations link_arrow Created with Sketch. Counseling and Psychological Services http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Courses /courses link_arrow Created with Sketch. Credit Transfer /credit-transfer… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Cross Registration /cross-registrat… link_arrow Created with Sketch. D Data & Design /data-design link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Letter /deans-letter link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Office 402 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Nicholas Roberts directory_staff Created with Sketch. /deans-office link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Unlearning Whiteness Research Award /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Development Office 404 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Leah Cohen, Jillian Barsalou Kincaid, Esther Turay, Leslie Kuo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /development-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Directory of Classes (All Columbia University) http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Disability Services http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dodge Fitness Center 3030 Broadway Dodge directory_address Created with Sketch. https://perec.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dual Degree Program Requirements /dual-degree-req… link_arrow Created with Sketch. E End of Year Show /eoys link_arrow Created with Sketch. Equity /equity link_arrow Created with Sketch. Events Office 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Lyla Catellier directory_staff Created with Sketch. /events-office link_arrow Created with Sketch. Exhibitions Office Irene Sunwoo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /exhibitions-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. External Funding Sources /admissions/tuit… link_arrow Created with Sketch. F Faculty /faculty link_arrow Created with Sketch. Faculty Conduct /faculty-conduct… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Feedback /feedback link_arrow Created with Sketch. Finance Office 406 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /finance-adminis… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Fitch Colloquium /fitch link_arrow Created with Sketch. Future Anterior Jorge Otero-Pailos directory_staff Created with Sketch. /future-anterior… link_arrow Created with Sketch. G GIS /gis link_arrow Created with Sketch. GIS Tutorials /gis/tutorials link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPP Community Fellowship Program /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPP Emergency Fund /gsapp-emergency… link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPPXx+ /gsappxxplus link_arrow Created with Sketch. Grades /grades link_arrow Created with Sketch. Graduation /commencement link_arrow Created with Sketch. Graphics Project Yoonjai Choi directory_staff Created with Sketch. /graphics-projec… link_arrow Created with Sketch. H HEERF Program /heerf-program link_arrow Created with Sketch. Historic Preservation Newsletter http://us2.campa… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Honor System /honor-system link_arrow Created with Sketch. Human Resources /finance-human-r… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Hybrid Pedagogy Resources /hybrid-pedagogy… link_arrow Created with Sketch. I Identity /identity link_arrow Created with Sketch. Incubator Prize David Benjamin directory_staff Created with Sketch. /research/gsapp-… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology Helpdesk Ticket, GSAPP https://bit.ly/2… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology Office, GSAPP Ben Goldie directory_staff Created with Sketch. /it-support link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology, Columbia University (CUIT) http://cuit.colu… link_arrow Created with Sketch. International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. J Job Opportunities at Columbia http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. K Kenneth Frampton Endowed Lecture Series /frampton-lectur… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Kinne Prize /kinne link_arrow Created with Sketch. L LatinGSAPP /latingsapp link_arrow Created with Sketch. Leave of Absence Policy /leave-of-absenc… link_arrow Created with Sketch. M Making Studio Schermerhorn Extension Floor 1 directory_address Created with Sketch. Joshua Jordan directory_staff Created with Sketch. https://www.arch… link_arrow Created with Sketch. N News and Press Releases /news link_arrow Created with Sketch. Newsletter Sign Up https://columbia… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy /non-discriminat… link_arrow Created with Sketch. O Onera Prize for Historic Preservation /onera-prize link_arrow Created with Sketch. Online Admissions Application GSAPP Admissions 407 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://apply.gs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Output Shop 116 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Carlito Bayne, Sherly Orilas directory_staff Created with Sketch. /output-shop link_arrow Created with Sketch. Ownership of Student Work Policy /ownership-of-wo… link_arrow Created with Sketch. P Paris Prize, Buell Center /buell-paris-pri… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Paul S. Byard Memorial Lecture Series /byard-lectures link_arrow Created with Sketch. Percival & Naomi Goodman Fellowship /goodman-fellows… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Plagiarism Policy /plagiarism-poli… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Policies & Resources /policies-resour… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Press Releases /news link_arrow Created with Sketch. Publications Office 407 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Isabelle Kirkham-Lewitt, Joanna Kloppenburg directory_staff Created with Sketch. /books link_arrow Created with Sketch. Q QSAPP /qsapp link_arrow Created with Sketch. R Registration /registration link_arrow Created with Sketch. Registration: Add / Drop Form https://apply.gs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Room Reservations /room-reservatio… link_arrow Created with Sketch. S STEM Designation /stem link_arrow Created with Sketch. Satisfactory Academic Progress /satisfactory-ac… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Skill Trails Dan Taeyoung directory_staff Created with Sketch. https://skilltra… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Affairs 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. JD Stogdill directory_staff Created with Sketch. /student-affairs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Awards /student-awards link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Conduct /student-conduct… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Council (All Programs) /student-council… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Financial Services http://sfs.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Health Services at Columbia http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Organization Handbook /books/reader/59… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Organizations /student-organiz… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Services Center 205 Kent Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://ssc.colu… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Services Online (SSOL) https://ssol.col… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Work Online /student-work link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio Culture Policy /architecture-st… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio Procedures /studio-procedur… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio-X Global Network /studio-x link_arrow Created with Sketch. Summer Workshops /summer-workshop… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Support GSAPP https://arch.giv… link_arrow Created with Sketch. T Travel Guide /finance-adminis… link_arrow Created with Sketch. U URBAN Magazine /urban-mag link_arrow Created with Sketch. University Apartment Housing (UAH) http://facilitie… link_arrow Created with Sketch. University Resources /university-reso… link_arrow Created with Sketch. V Virtual Studios /hybrid-pedagogy… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Visual Resources Collection (VRC) Fayerweather 204 directory_address Created with Sketch. /vrc link_arrow Created with Sketch. W Website Steffen Boddeker, Shannon Werle directory_staff Created with Sketch. /website-colopho… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Links for... COVID-19 Resources Hybrid Pedagogy Guide GSAPP COVID-19 Resources Columbia COVID-19 Resources Student Health Services Students & Faculty Student Resources Faculty Resources Course Listing 2022 Commencement Prospective students 2021 Virtual Open House Thinking about Applying Compare Programs Student Work Columbia University Columbia Student Resources University Directory Office of University Life Columbia Libraries Close This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice Group 6 Equity Events Pedagogy Research Publications & Exhibitions In different ways, the COVID-19 pandemic and the Black Lives Matter movement have recently brought into sharp focus the direct relationship between the built environment—its disciplines, practices, pedagogies, and entanglements—and the inequities that it constructs. Now is a crucial moment of reckoning when individuals and institutions must seek to understand the visible, invisible, and multidimensional manifestations and origins of these injustices, from the scarcity of affordable housing to lack of access to clean water, from exclusionary historiography to the systemic racism that has coursed through the design professions. How we as architects, developers, preservationists, scholars, students, teachers, and urbanists critically question and dismantle those inequities must be a determined focus of our collaborative efforts moving forward. This webpage features a collection of resources on GSAPP’s ongoing work on Equity. This list will continue to be updated. If you have suggestions or comments, please reach out to communications@arch.columbia.edu. EVENTS Listed below are selected GSAPP events presented by the Office of the Dean since Fall 2014. Wed, Mar 23 6:30pm Race, Space, and Architecture Discussion Virtual Wed, Feb 9 6:30pm Sara Bronin Lecture New York Mon, Sep 20, 2021 6:30pm Leading with the Future: Educate, Elevate, and Empower Alumni New York, Virtual Fri, Sep 24, 2021 1pm WIP Collaborative: Women in Practice | Work in Progress New York, Virtual Mon, Sep 27, 2021 6:30pm Wanda Dalla Costa Lecture New York, Virtual Fri, Oct 15, 2021 1pm Brownsville Discussion New York, Virtual Mon, Oct 25, 2021 6:30pm Teresa Caldeira Lecture New York, Virtual Fri, Feb 19, 2021 12pm 2021 Fitch Colloquium The Art of Preservation Conference Virtual Fri, Mar 12, 2021 9:30am Planning Futures? On Decolonial, Postcolonial, and Abolitionist Planning Conference Virtual Fri, Nov 13, 2020 1pm Health and the City Conference Virtual Thu, Oct 29, 2020 6:30pm Paths to Prison: On the Architectures of Carcerality Book Launch Virtual Thu, Oct 8, 2020 6:30pm Memorial to Enslaved Laborers Discussion Virtual Fri, Oct 2, 2020 1pm The Feminist City Discussion Virtual Fri, Sep 11, 2020 1pm Site and History: On the Question of Repair Discussion Virtual Fri, Sep 18, 2020 3pm Race and Modern Architecture Seminar Virtual Fri, Sep 25, 2020 1pm The Preservation of Disability Discussion Virtual Fri, Nov 16, 2018 9:30am Acts of Design: New Housing Paradigms in North America Conference New York Thu, Feb 23, 2017 6:30pm When Ivory Towers Were Black Discussion New York Fri, Mar 29, 2019 9:30am Constructing (Engaged) Practice Conference New York Fri, Feb 3, 2017 1pm Who Builds Your Architecture? Discussion New York Fri, Dec 9, 2016 9am Past is Prologue: Planning’s Critical Approach to 100 Years of Zoning Conference New York Fri, Feb 26, 2016 12:30pm Critical Dialogues on Race and Modern Architecture Panel Discussion Tue, Mar 10, 2015 Housing the Majority New York 1 / 17 CONVERSATIONS Infrastructures of Violence January 15, 2021 This conversation among Rebecca M. Brown, Swati Chattopadhyay, Avishek Ray, and Ateya Khorakiwala focused on the histories of the built environment in the wake of their failures during this past year through the pandemic. If we locate the history of infrastructure in the techno-scientific rationalities of colonial extractivisms and post-colonial developmentalism, then what have been the vectors of power that are crystalized in the built environment that have determined the betrayal of laboring bodies? Beverly Loraine Greene and Norma Merrick Sklarek: New Research in Black Women’s History in Architecture January 15, 2021 This conversation among Mary McLeod, Victoria Rosner, Patricia Morton, and Roberta Washington focused on Pioneering Women of American Architecture, an online resource co-directed by McLeod and Rosner which profiles fifty women (all born prior to 1940) who have made important contributions to American architecture. Health and the City November 13, 2020 A introduction to Mapping the New Politics of Care by Laura Kurgan, Dare Brawley, and Jia Zhang from the Center for Spatial Research and collaborators Gregg Gonsalves, Suzan Iloglu, and Thomas Thornhill from the Yale School of Public Health. Graduate researchers Caitlin Blanchfield, Nelson de Jesus Ubri, Spenser A. Krut, Nadine Fattaleh, Adeline Chum, Adam Vosburgh also presented related research on COVID-19-related data. Paths to Prison: On the Architectures of Carcerality October 29, 2020 Launch and discussion of the book Paths to Prison: On the Architectures of Carcerality, published by Columbia Books on Architecture and the City and edited by Isabelle Kirkham-Lewitt. Book contributors include Adrienne Brown, Stephen Dillon, Jarrett M. Drake, Sable Elyse Smith, James Graham, Leslie Lodwick, Dylan Rodríguez, Anne Spice, Brett Story, Jasmine Syedullah, Mabel O. Wilson, and Wendy L. Wright. Memorial to Enslaved Laborers October 8, 2020 Conversation among Gregg Bleam, Diane Brown Townes, Frank Dukes, Eric Höweler, Eto Otitigbe, Mabel O. Wilson, and J. Meejin Yoon, moderated by Farah Jasmine Griffin. Co-presented by Columbia University’s School of the Arts, Department of African American and African Diaspora Studies, and Institute for Research in African-American Studies, together with Cornell AAP, the Lapidus Center for the Historical Analysis of Transatlantic Slavery at the Schomburg Center, the Studio Museum in Harlem, and the Queens Museum. The Feminist City October 2, 2020 Leslie Kern, author of Feminist City: Claiming Space in a Man-Made World, and Anna Puigjaner, author of Kitchenless City, discuss their research towards an intersectional feminist urban future. Moderated by Jack Halberstam. Co-presented by the Institute for Research on Women, Gender, and Sexuality at Columbia University. Read More The Preservation of Disability September 25, 2020 This discussion brings together architects, theorists, and historians whose perspectives on human impairment reimagine the reconstruction and maintenance of the built past. Organized and moderated by David Gissen, in discussion with Georgina Kleege, Rosemarie Garland-Thomson, Rob Thomson, Sun Young Park, and Wanda Katja Liebermann. Race and Modern Architecture September 18, 2020 A symposium to present Race and Modern Architecture: A Critical History from the Enlightenment to the Present, published by the University of Pittsburgh Press. Presentations by book contributors Esra Akcan, Adrienne Brown, Luis E. Carranza, Jiat-Hwee Chang, Mark Crinson, Kenny Cupers, Addison Godel, Dianne Harris, Andrew Herscher, Reinhold Martin, Brian L. McLaren, Joanna Merwood-Salisbury, Peter Minosh, Adedoyin Teriba, and Lisa Uddin. Moderated by the editors Mabel O. Wilson, Irene Cheng, and Charles L. Davis. Site and History: On the Question of Repair September 11, 2020 The first in a series of discussions acknowledging and exploring the history of Columbia University’s colonialist and discriminatory practices against Black, Indigenous, and People of Color. Participants includes Erica Avrami; Mark Barksdale; Eric Foner; Mindy Fullilove; and Galia Solomonoff. Stone Men February 14, 2020 The book Stone Men: The Palestinians Who Built Israel by Andrew Ross focuses largely on the stone and marble industry of the West Bank its relationship to Palestinian labor. It asks: What kinds of rights should accrue from that labor and how do their contributions feed into the debate about civil and political rights in the “one-state” scenario now being debated for the region? This discussion unpacks arguments from the book through a conversation among Andrew Ross, Kadambari Baxi, Jordan Carver, Laura Diamond Dixit, Lindsey Wikstrom, and Mabel O. Wilson. Organized by Who Builds Your Architecture? and co-presented by Columbia’s Center for Palestine Studies. Stonewall 50: Defining LGBTQ Site Preservation April 6, 2019 This symposium examines the progress and challenges of preserving sites of significance to LGBTQ communities and, by extension, to the heritage of cities and nations around the world. Participants include Andrew Dolkart, Amanda Davis, Cate Fosl, Nick Large, Shayne Watson, Ken Lustbader, Ankit Bhuptani, Matt Cook, Michael Ighodaro, Jay Shockley, Susan Ferentinos, Barbara Lau, and Ken Turino. Co-organized by NYC LGBT Historic Sites Project, QSAPP and the Office of the University Chaplain as part of the Stonewall 50 Consortium. Health Equity: Shaping Just Societies March 23, 2018 This event presents efforts from the global to the local focused on addressing health inequities. Keynote lecture by Jason Corburn followed by a conversation among Nupur Chaudhury, Malo Hutson, and Mandu Sen moderated by Justin Garrett Moore. Listen to Malo Huston in Podcast episode #33 The Decolonization of Design April 13, 2018 Critically questioning the colonial practices of planning, architecture, and engineering, the presentation by Pierre Bélanger seeks to contribute a basis for undermining the industrial underpinnings and imperialist hegemonies that lie on, above, and below the surface of contemporary settler-state space whose foundations rely and rest on the perpetuation of spatial inequities, environmental injustices, and cultural inhumanities. The event includes an introduction by Reinhold Martin and is followed by a conversation with Kate Orff. Organized by the Buell Center. Constructing Practice November 17, 2017 Organized by Juan Herreros with Enrique Walker, the symposium hosts 15 international firms to discuss their respective contexts, ambitions, and influences relevant to their founding and early years, followed by joint discussions on their experiences and strategies. Another 100 Days: Writing And Dissent October 6, 2017 Architecture participates, centrally, in defining modes of life, whether for the privileged or the dispossessed—designing and building the boundaries between the “haves” and the “have-nots.” This fundamental reality of architectural practice need not inspire either nihilism or defensiveness but should rather be understood, quite simply, as the terrain we navigate. Naming these complicities and the injustices they perpetuate is a first step toward addressing them. Participants include Karen Abrams, Kadambari Baxi, Anooradha Iyer Siddiqi, Caitlin Blanchfield, James Graham, and Jacob Moore. Organized by the Avery Review at Columbia GSAPP. The First 100 Days: Day 27 - Design and Social Justice February 15, 2017 The GSAPP community and invited guests discuss the role of architecture as a tool for grassroots mobilization and critical resistance. How are architects and designers engaging and empowering local communities to have a voice in urban design and policy? Participants include Ifeoma Ebo, Ingrid Haftel, Quardean Lewis-Allen, Betsy MacLean, Quilian Riano, and David Smiley. Power and the Space of the Planet April 15, 2016 This event inaugurates the Buell Center’s research project “Power,” which extends the Center’s recent work on housing, inequality, and real estate into another dimension of the planetary commons. Participants include Phillip Wegner, Edward Eigen, Jeanne Haffner, Paige West, Kim Stanley Robinson, and Reinhold Martin. Presented by the Buell Center. The Art of Inequality: Architecture, Housing, and Real Estate—A Provisional Report January 22, 2016 Book launch for The Art of Inequality. A discussion among Jesse Keenan, Peter Marcuse, Reinhold Martin, Jacob Moore, Susanne Schindler, and Galia Solomonoff. Organized by the Buell Center and co-sponsored by 6on6. The Other Global University: Against Educational Apartheids November 6, 2015 Rather than reject outright a concept of global education, this forum instead asks participants to consider what it would mean to truly make higher education globally accessible and what aims such an education would need to address. What hypothetical curricula, exchanges, funding structures, and institutional relations would respect societies’ and individuals’ rights to intellectual self-determination without, however, positing a priori assumptions of differing educational needs based on cultural or class distinctions? Participants include Davarian Baldwin, Jamyung Choi, Saskia Cornes, Susan Gillespie, Denise Ferreira Da Silva, Ruth Hayhoe, Hidetaka Hirota, Laura Kurgan, Jacques Lezra, Lydia Liu, Reinhold Martin, Noëleen Murray, Dan-el Padilla Peralta, Bruce Robbins, Noliwe Rooks, Felicity Scott, Ajay Singh Chaudhary, Mark C. Taylor, Mark Wigley, Grant Wythoff, and Stephen Zacks. Organized by Ginger Nolan and Jamyung Choi. Co-sponsored by the Heyman Center, Institute of Comparative Literature & Society, Weatherhead East Asian Institute, and GSAPP. Extrastatecraft and Expulsions April 3, 2015 Grounded in their books Extrastatecraft: The Power of Infrastructure Space and Expulsions: Brutality and Complexity in the Global Landscape, scholars Keller Easterling and Saskia Sassen, respectively, present recent writings on equity, built and representational space, and the global economy. Listen to Keller Easterling in Podcast episode #48 We Can’t Breathe February 6, 2015 Organized in response to the failure to indict the murderers of Michael Brown, Eric Garner, and countless other innocent and unarmed citizens—and the massive swelling of anger, grief, and public protest that followed—this urgent and interdisciplinary conversation explores race, justice, and urban space today. Participants include Kathy Boudin, Vishaan Chakrabarti, Suzanne Goldberg, Mario Gooden, Kimberley Johnson, Laura Kurgan, Reinhold Martin, V. Mitch McEwen, Dread Scott, Stacey Sutton, Kendall Thomas, and Mabel Wilson. Organized by GSAPP, Columbia’s Center for Justice, CURE, and the Buell Center. Architecture and Representation: Arab City Conference December 11, 2014 Taking the “Arab City” and “Islamic Architecture” as sites of investigation, this symposium critically engages contemporary architectural and urban production in the Middle East in an effort to move beyond reductive notions of identity, myths of authenticity, the fetishizing of tradition, or the resilience of constructed oppositions between tradition and modernity. Participants include Ashraf Abdallah, Senan Abdelqader, Nadia Abu-El-Haj, Mohammad al-Asad, Suad Amiry, George Arbid, Mohamed Elshahed, Yasser Elsheshtawy, Rania Ghosn, Saba Innab, Ziad Jamaleddine, Ahmed Kanna, Bernard Khoury, Laura Kurgan, Adrian Lahoud, Ali Mangera, Reinhold Martin, Magda Mostafa, Nicolai Ouroussoff, Nasser Rabbat, Hashim Sarkis, Felicity Scott, Hala Warde, Enrique Walker, Mark Wasiuta, Eyal Weizman, Mabel Wilson, and Gwendolyn Wright. Co-organized with Studio-X Amman. Show Less The Preservation of Disability September 25, 2020 This discussion brings together architects, theorists, and historians whose perspectives on human impairment reimagine the reconstruction and maintenance of the built past. Organized and moderated by David Gissen, in discussion with Georgina Kleege, Rosemarie Garland-Thomson, Rob Thomson, Sun Young Park, and Wanda Katja Liebermann. Race and Modern Architecture September 18, 2020 A symposium to present Race and Modern Architecture: A Critical History from the Enlightenment to the Present, published by the University of Pittsburgh Press. Presentations by book contributors Esra Akcan, Adrienne Brown, Luis E. Carranza, Jiat-Hwee Chang, Mark Crinson, Kenny Cupers, Addison Godel, Dianne Harris, Andrew Herscher, Reinhold Martin, Brian L. McLaren, Joanna Merwood-Salisbury, Peter Minosh, Adedoyin Teriba, and Lisa Uddin. Moderated by the editors Mabel O. Wilson, Irene Cheng, and Charles L. Davis. Site and History: On the Question of Repair September 11, 2020 The first in a series of discussions acknowledging and exploring the history of Columbia University’s colonialist and discriminatory practices against Black, Indigenous, and People of Color. Participants includes Erica Avrami; Mark Barksdale; Eric Foner; Mindy Fullilove; and Galia Solomonoff. Stone Men February 14, 2020 The book Stone Men: The Palestinians Who Built Israel by Andrew Ross focuses largely on the stone and marble industry of the West Bank its relationship to Palestinian labor. It asks: What kinds of rights should accrue from that labor and how do their contributions feed into the debate about civil and political rights in the “one-state” scenario now being debated for the region? This discussion unpacks arguments from the book through a conversation among Andrew Ross, Kadambari Baxi, Jordan Carver, Laura Diamond Dixit, Lindsey Wikstrom, and Mabel O. Wilson. Organized by Who Builds Your Architecture? and co-presented by Columbia’s Center for Palestine Studies. Stonewall 50: Defining LGBTQ Site Preservation April 6, 2019 This symposium examines the progress and challenges of preserving sites of significance to LGBTQ communities and, by extension, to the heritage of cities and nations around the world. Participants include Andrew Dolkart, Amanda Davis, Cate Fosl, Nick Large, Shayne Watson, Ken Lustbader, Ankit Bhuptani, Matt Cook, Michael Ighodaro, Jay Shockley, Susan Ferentinos, Barbara Lau, and Ken Turino. Co-organized by NYC LGBT Historic Sites Project, QSAPP and the Office of the University Chaplain as part of the Stonewall 50 Consortium. Health Equity: Shaping Just Societies March 23, 2018 This event presents efforts from the global to the local focused on addressing health inequities. Keynote lecture by Jason Corburn followed by a conversation among Nupur Chaudhury, Malo Hutson, and Mandu Sen moderated by Justin Garrett Moore. Listen to Malo Huston in Podcast episode #33 The Decolonization of Design April 13, 2018 Critically questioning the colonial practices of planning, architecture, and engineering, the presentation by Pierre Bélanger seeks to contribute a basis for undermining the industrial underpinnings and imperialist hegemonies that lie on, above, and below the surface of contemporary settler-state space whose foundations rely and rest on the perpetuation of spatial inequities, environmental injustices, and cultural inhumanities. The event includes an introduction by Reinhold Martin and is followed by a conversation with Kate Orff. Organized by the Buell Center. Constructing Practice November 17, 2017 Organized by Juan Herreros with Enrique Walker, the symposium hosts 15 international firms to discuss their respective contexts, ambitions, and influences relevant to their founding and early years, followed by joint discussions on their experiences and strategies. Another 100 Days: Writing And Dissent October 6, 2017 Architecture participates, centrally, in defining modes of life, whether for the privileged or the dispossessed—designing and building the boundaries between the “haves” and the “have-nots.” This fundamental reality of architectural practice need not inspire either nihilism or defensiveness but should rather be understood, quite simply, as the terrain we navigate. Naming these complicities and the injustices they perpetuate is a first step toward addressing them. Participants include Karen Abrams, Kadambari Baxi, Anooradha Iyer Siddiqi, Caitlin Blanchfield, James Graham, and Jacob Moore. Organized by the Avery Review at Columbia GSAPP. The First 100 Days: Day 27 - Design and Social Justice February 15, 2017 The GSAPP community and invited guests discuss the role of architecture as a tool for grassroots mobilization and critical resistance. How are architects and designers engaging and empowering local communities to have a voice in urban design and policy? Participants include Ifeoma Ebo, Ingrid Haftel, Quardean Lewis-Allen, Betsy MacLean, Quilian Riano, and David Smiley. Power and the Space of the Planet April 15, 2016 This event inaugurates the Buell Center’s research project “Power,” which extends the Center’s recent work on housing, inequality, and real estate into another dimension of the planetary commons. Participants include Phillip Wegner, Edward Eigen, Jeanne Haffner, Paige West, Kim Stanley Robinson, and Reinhold Martin. Presented by the Buell Center. The Art of Inequality: Architecture, Housing, and Real Estate—A Provisional Report January 22, 2016 Book launch for The Art of Inequality. A discussion among Jesse Keenan, Peter Marcuse, Reinhold Martin, Jacob Moore, Susanne Schindler, and Galia Solomonoff. Organized by the Buell Center and co-sponsored by 6on6. The Other Global University: Against Educational Apartheids November 6, 2015 Rather than reject outright a concept of global education, this forum instead asks participants to consider what it would mean to truly make higher education globally accessible and what aims such an education would need to address. What hypothetical curricula, exchanges, funding structures, and institutional relations would respect societies’ and individuals’ rights to intellectual self-determination without, however, positing a priori assumptions of differing educational needs based on cultural or class distinctions? Participants include Davarian Baldwin, Jamyung Choi, Saskia Cornes, Susan Gillespie, Denise Ferreira Da Silva, Ruth Hayhoe, Hidetaka Hirota, Laura Kurgan, Jacques Lezra, Lydia Liu, Reinhold Martin, Noëleen Murray, Dan-el Padilla Peralta, Bruce Robbins, Noliwe Rooks, Felicity Scott, Ajay Singh Chaudhary, Mark C. Taylor, Mark Wigley, Grant Wythoff, and Stephen Zacks. Organized by Ginger Nolan and Jamyung Choi. Co-sponsored by the Heyman Center, Institute of Comparative Literature & Society, Weatherhead East Asian Institute, and GSAPP. Extrastatecraft and Expulsions April 3, 2015 Grounded in their books Extrastatecraft: The Power of Infrastructure Space and Expulsions: Brutality and Complexity in the Global Landscape, scholars Keller Easterling and Saskia Sassen, respectively, present recent writings on equity, built and representational space, and the global economy. Listen to Keller Easterling in Podcast episode #48 We Can’t Breathe February 6, 2015 Organized in response to the failure to indict the murderers of Michael Brown, Eric Garner, and countless other innocent and unarmed citizens—and the massive swelling of anger, grief, and public protest that followed—this urgent and interdisciplinary conversation explores race, justice, and urban space today. Participants include Kathy Boudin, Vishaan Chakrabarti, Suzanne Goldberg, Mario Gooden, Kimberley Johnson, Laura Kurgan, Reinhold Martin, V. Mitch McEwen, Dread Scott, Stacey Sutton, Kendall Thomas, and Mabel Wilson. Organized by GSAPP, Columbia’s Center for Justice, CURE, and the Buell Center. Architecture and Representation: Arab City Conference December 11, 2014 Taking the “Arab City” and “Islamic Architecture” as sites of investigation, this symposium critically engages contemporary architectural and urban production in the Middle East in an effort to move beyond reductive notions of identity, myths of authenticity, the fetishizing of tradition, or the resilience of constructed oppositions between tradition and modernity. Participants include Ashraf Abdallah, Senan Abdelqader, Nadia Abu-El-Haj, Mohammad al-Asad, Suad Amiry, George Arbid, Mohamed Elshahed, Yasser Elsheshtawy, Rania Ghosn, Saba Innab, Ziad Jamaleddine, Ahmed Kanna, Bernard Khoury, Laura Kurgan, Adrian Lahoud, Ali Mangera, Reinhold Martin, Magda Mostafa, Nicolai Ouroussoff, Nasser Rabbat, Hashim Sarkis, Felicity Scott, Hala Warde, Enrique Walker, Mark Wasiuta, Eyal Weizman, Mabel Wilson, and Gwendolyn Wright. Co-organized with Studio-X Amman. Infrastructures of Violence March 19, 2021 Participants included Rebecca M. Brown, Swati Chattopadhyay, Avishek Ray, and Ateya Khorakiwala. Learn more here. Up next Infrastructures of Violence Up next Health and the City Up next Paths to Prison: On the Architectures of Carcerality Up next Memorial to Enslaved Laborers Up next The Feminist City Up next The Preservation of Disability Up next Race and Modern Architecture Up next Site and History: On the Question of Repair Up next Stone Men Up next Stonewall 50: Defining LGBTQ Site Preservation Up next Health Equity: Shaping Just Societies Up next Another 100 Days: Writing And Dissent Up next The First 100 Days: Day 27 - Design + Social Justice Up next Power and the Space of the Planet Up next Extrastatecraft and Expulsions Up next Architecture and Representation: Arab City Conference LECTURES Gabrielle Bullock March 17, 2021 Gabrielle Bullock is a Principal and Director of Global Diversity for Perkins+Will, has shaped an architectural career that focuses on her two passions: design and social justice. Response by Juan Herreros. Teddy Cruz and Fonna Forman February 8, 2021 Teddy Cruz and Fonna Forman are principals in Estudio Teddy Cruz + Fonna Forman, a research-based political and architectural practice in San Diego transgressing conventional boundaries between theory and practice, and merging the fields of architecture and urbanism, political theory and urban policy. Response by Lola Ben-Alon. Tatiana Bilbao November 16, 2020 Kenneth Frampton Endowed Lecture Tatiana Bilbao ESTUDIO is a Mexico City-based architecture studio, founded in 2004. At the core of the studio’s practice is an analysis of the context surrounding projects, which scale from masterplans to affordable housing typologies. Response by Enrique Walker. Majora Carter November 9, 2020 Majora Carter is a real estate developer, urban revitalization strategy consultant, MacArthur Fellow and Peabody Award winning broadcaster. Carter combines her corporate consulting practice focused on talent-retention, and applies it to reducing Brain Drain in American low-status communities. Response by Mario Gooden. J. Phillip Thompson October 19, 2020 As Deputy Mayor for Strategic Policy Initiatives, Deputy Mayor Thompson is responsible for spearheading a diverse collection of priority initiatives. This expansive portfolio includes Democracy NYC, the Minority and Women-owned Business Enterprises Program, the Mayor’s Office of Workforce Development, the Office of the Census, and the Young Men’s Initiative. Response by Weiping Wu. David Barragán, Al Borde October 12, 2020 Al Borde is a Quito, Ecuador-based studio, whose Principals David Barragán, Esteban Benavides, Marialuisa Borja, and Pascual Gangotena champion an improvisational, collaborative approach to design. Resisting theory and dogma, their projects seek to enhance local development and engage communities in social innovation. Response by Juan Herreros. Bryan C. Lee, Jr. September 21, 2020 Lee is the Design Principal of Colloqate, a New Orleans–based multidisciplinary architecture and design justice practice focused on expanding community access to, and building power through the design of social, civic, and cultural spaces. Their mission is to intentionally organize, advocate, and design spaces of racial, social, and cultural equity. Read More Marc Norman March 2, 2020 In his talk “Prototyping Better Futures,” Norman discusses his work addressing affordability and equity in housing. Response by Hilary Sample and Bernadette Baird-Zars. Listen to Marc Norman in Podcast episode #90 Mario Gooden October 21, 2019 Gooden’s performance “Working on Water” is an exploration of architecture and the black ontology of water—from the ship hulls of the Middle Passage, to the segregated waters of public swimming pools and beaches during the Jim Crow era, to the contemporary conditions of forced migration due to climate change. Response by Amale Andraos. Listen to Mario Gooden in Podcast Episode #84 Adrian Lahoud February 27, 2019 Lahoud’s lecture, “Rights of Future Generations,” introduces the curatorial program for the inaugural edition of the Sharjah Architecture Triennial. The project aims to radically decolonize architectural and design discourses, as well as their exhibition platforms. Response by Mark Wasiuta and Felicity Scott. Listen to Adrian Lahoudin Podcast Episode #68 Ananya Roy February 25, 2019 Roy talks about the city in the age of trumpism, focusing on sanctuary cities and what they tell us about space and sovereignty. In doing so, Roy is interested in interrogating both liberal inclusion and radical hospitality, thereby shifting the discussion of cosmopolitanism to what she calls the “threshold of empire.” Response by Weiping Wu. Listen to Ananya Roy in Podcast Episode #67 Helen Leung and Elizabeth Timme November 8, 2018 LA-Más co-founders Leung and Timme introduce the work of their Los Angeles-based non-profit urban design organization, which helps lower-income and underserved communities shape their future through policy and architecture. La Mas envisions a world where city growth is equitable and self-directed—where the best local solutions are brought to a city-wide scale. Response by Kate Orff. Listen to Helen Leung and Elizabeth Timme in Podcast Episode #60 Rozana Montiel January 22, 2018 Montiel discusses how her research-based practice is informed by everyday life in Mexico City. Her lecture addresses her efforts to “transform public space into place” and to approach design as a process. Response by Amale Andraos. Listen to Rozana Montiel in Podcast Episode #42 Jo Noero October 16, 2017 Noero’s lecture “Architecture in a Noisy Democracy” discusses how his work maintains local expertise and seeks to empower individuals in their environment. Highlighted projects include a chapel and house for Desmond Tutu and The Red Location Museum in New Brighton, Port Elizabeth, which is designed as a tribute to the struggle against Apartheid. Response by Hilary Sample. Listen to Rozana Montiel in Podcast Episode #31 Rosanne Haggerty October 2, 2017 Haggerty’s lecture, “Housing Is a Verb,” is organized around a statement and two questions: (1) the process of designing housing matters; (2) who gets to design housing and the housing process?; and (3) how do we think in terms of designing community housing systems? Response by Kate Orff. Listen to Rosanne Haggerty in Podcast Episode #29 Walter Hood October 10, 2016 Hood presents recent projects including a landscape for Cooper Hewitt’s Arthur Ross Terrace and Garden in NYC, NY; Nauck Town Square in Arlington, VA—a project that honors the history of a community founded by freed African Americans prior to Emancipation; and a landscape for the International African American Museum in Charleston, SC which takes cues from the tradition of ‘hush harbors’. Response by Kate Orff. Malo Hutson September 20, 2016 Malo Huston discusses the inextricable link between community development and health equity. The lecture addresses the challenges and opportunities that face urban planners, designers, architects, and health professionals in their efforts to transform the built environment and support urban communities. Response by Weiping Wu. Listen to Malo Hutson in Podcast episode #33 Joshua Bolchover and John Lin January 25, 2016 Rural Urban Framework co-founders Bolchover and Lin introduce the work of their research and design collaborative Rural Urban Framework, which focuses on the intersection of two scales: the physical reality of architecture versus the social, political, and economic reality of urban forces. Presented projects include schools, community centers, villages, and infrastructure. Response by Amale Andraos. Michael Maltzan May 13, 2015 Maltzan states that, in the face of complex social, political, physical contexts such as Los Angeles, he’s come to “believe in architecture’s ability to possess a broader range of capacities and abilities that allow it to be impactful at a level of a building but also at the level of the discipline.” This lecture introduces several housing projects including New Carver Apartments, Star Apartments, and One Santa Fe housing); Playa Vista Park; and Sixth Street Viaduct. Response by Hilary Sample. Angela Davis November 20, 2014 In this conversation, iconic activist and scholar Angela Davis is joined by Dean Amale Andraos and Gwendolyn Wright to discuss the physical structures of incarceration, and the myriad connections between militarized policing of everyday life in the US—disproportionately affecting low-income African Americans, women, and trans populations—and Occupied Palestine today. Show Less Marc Norman March 2, 2020 In his talk “Prototyping Better Futures,” Norman discusses his work addressing affordability and equity in housing. Response by Hilary Sample and Bernadette Baird-Zars. Listen to Marc Norman in Podcast episode #90 Mario Gooden October 21, 2019 Gooden’s performance “Working on Water” is an exploration of architecture and the black ontology of water—from the ship hulls of the Middle Passage, to the segregated waters of public swimming pools and beaches during the Jim Crow era, to the contemporary conditions of forced migration due to climate change. Response by Amale Andraos. Listen to Mario Gooden in Podcast Episode #84 Adrian Lahoud February 27, 2019 Lahoud’s lecture, “Rights of Future Generations,” introduces the curatorial program for the inaugural edition of the Sharjah Architecture Triennial. The project aims to radically decolonize architectural and design discourses, as well as their exhibition platforms. Response by Mark Wasiuta and Felicity Scott. Listen to Adrian Lahoudin Podcast Episode #68 Ananya Roy February 25, 2019 Roy talks about the city in the age of trumpism, focusing on sanctuary cities and what they tell us about space and sovereignty. In doing so, Roy is interested in interrogating both liberal inclusion and radical hospitality, thereby shifting the discussion of cosmopolitanism to what she calls the “threshold of empire.” Response by Weiping Wu. Listen to Ananya Roy in Podcast Episode #67 Helen Leung and Elizabeth Timme November 8, 2018 LA-Más co-founders Leung and Timme introduce the work of their Los Angeles-based non-profit urban design organization, which helps lower-income and underserved communities shape their future through policy and architecture. La Mas envisions a world where city growth is equitable and self-directed—where the best local solutions are brought to a city-wide scale. Response by Kate Orff. Listen to Helen Leung and Elizabeth Timme in Podcast Episode #60 Rozana Montiel January 22, 2018 Montiel discusses how her research-based practice is informed by everyday life in Mexico City. Her lecture addresses her efforts to “transform public space into place” and to approach design as a process. Response by Amale Andraos. Listen to Rozana Montiel in Podcast Episode #42 Jo Noero October 16, 2017 Noero’s lecture “Architecture in a Noisy Democracy” discusses how his work maintains local expertise and seeks to empower individuals in their environment. Highlighted projects include a chapel and house for Desmond Tutu and The Red Location Museum in New Brighton, Port Elizabeth, which is designed as a tribute to the struggle against Apartheid. Response by Hilary Sample. Listen to Rozana Montiel in Podcast Episode #31 Rosanne Haggerty October 2, 2017 Haggerty’s lecture, “Housing Is a Verb,” is organized around a statement and two questions: (1) the process of designing housing matters; (2) who gets to design housing and the housing process?; and (3) how do we think in terms of designing community housing systems? Response by Kate Orff. Listen to Rosanne Haggerty in Podcast Episode #29 Walter Hood October 10, 2016 Hood presents recent projects including a landscape for Cooper Hewitt’s Arthur Ross Terrace and Garden in NYC, NY; Nauck Town Square in Arlington, VA—a project that honors the history of a community founded by freed African Americans prior to Emancipation; and a landscape for the International African American Museum in Charleston, SC which takes cues from the tradition of ‘hush harbors’. Response by Kate Orff. Malo Hutson September 20, 2016 Malo Huston discusses the inextricable link between community development and health equity. The lecture addresses the challenges and opportunities that face urban planners, designers, architects, and health professionals in their efforts to transform the built environment and support urban communities. Response by Weiping Wu. Listen to Malo Hutson in Podcast episode #33 Joshua Bolchover and John Lin January 25, 2016 Rural Urban Framework co-founders Bolchover and Lin introduce the work of their research and design collaborative Rural Urban Framework, which focuses on the intersection of two scales: the physical reality of architecture versus the social, political, and economic reality of urban forces. Presented projects include schools, community centers, villages, and infrastructure. Response by Amale Andraos. Michael Maltzan May 13, 2015 Maltzan states that, in the face of complex social, political, physical contexts such as Los Angeles, he’s come to “believe in architecture’s ability to possess a broader range of capacities and abilities that allow it to be impactful at a level of a building but also at the level of the discipline.” This lecture introduces several housing projects including New Carver Apartments, Star Apartments, and One Santa Fe housing); Playa Vista Park; and Sixth Street Viaduct. Response by Hilary Sample. Angela Davis November 20, 2014 In this conversation, iconic activist and scholar Angela Davis is joined by Dean Amale Andraos and Gwendolyn Wright to discuss the physical structures of incarceration, and the myriad connections between militarized policing of everyday life in the US—disproportionately affecting low-income African Americans, women, and trans populations—and Occupied Palestine today. Teddy Cruz and Fonna Forman February 8, 2021 Learn more here. Up next Teddy Cruz and Fonna Forman Up next Tatiana Bilbao Up next Majora Carter Up next J. Phillip Thompson Up next Bryan C. Lee, Jr. Up next Marc Norman Up next Mario Gooden Up next Adrian Lahoud Up next Ananya Roy Up next Elizabeth Timme and Helen Leung Up next Rozana Montiel Up next Jo Noero Up next Rosanne Haggerty Up next Walter Hood Up next Malo Hutson Up next Joshua Bolchover and John Lin Up next Michael Maltzan Up next Angela Davis Pedagogy Below is a selection of recent GSAPP courses and curricular initiatives that critically examine the relationship between our built environments and the in/equities they construct. Affordable Housing, Development and Policy Ed Poteat, Spring 2021, Real Estate Development Affordable Housing Finance Richard Froehlich, Fall 2020, Real Estate Development Affordable Housing Finance Techniques Richard Froehlich, Fall 2020, Real Estate Development Architecture and Development Ateya Khorakiwala, Fall 2020, Architecture Architecture, Engineering, and Political Ecology Reinhold Martin, Fall 2020, Architecture Community Development Planning Lance Freeman, Fall 2020, Urban Planning Difference and Design Justin Moore, Fall 2020, Urban Design Feasting and Fasting Ateya Khorakiwala, Fall 2020, Architecture Kitchenless Stories Anna Puigjaner, Fall 2020, Architecture and Urban Design Site Planning & Support Systems Graham Trelstad, Fall 2020, Urban Planning Read More Affordable Housing Development and Policy Ed Poteat, Spring 2020, Real Estate Development Advanced VI Studio: Amazonia after Fitzcarraldo Pedro Rivera, Spring 2020, Architecture Architecture and Ethics in the Post-Truth Neoliberal Era Nicolai Ouroussoff, Spring 2020, History/Theory Architecture and Settler Colonialism: Territories, Infrastructures, & Institutions Caitlin Blanchfield, Spring 2020, History/Theory Archives of Toxicity Mark Wasiuta, Spring 2020, History/Theory Caribbean Reconnections: A Sustainable Future for Puerto Rico Richard Plunz & Douglas Woodward, Spring 2020, Architecture and Urban Planning Community Development Planning Moira O’Neill, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Cotton Kingdom, Now Sara Zewde, Spring 2020, Urban Design Dark Space: Architecture Representation & Black Identity Mario Gooden, Spring 2020, History/Theory Designing for Zero: Housing, Mobility, Energy Michael Bell Spring 2020, History/Theory Gender and Architecture Bryony Roberts, Spring 2020, History/Theory Global Africa Lab: The Space of Water Mario Gooden, Spring 2020, Architecture In the Name of God: An Investigations in to a Rural Religious Settlement, NY Ziad Jamaleddine, Spring 2020, Architecture Introduction of Housing Lance Freeman, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Kitchenless Stories Anna Puigjaner, Spring 2020, Architecture On Spatial Exclusion and Planning Hiba Bou Akar, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Public Space: Rhetorics of the Pedestrian David Smiley, Spring 2020, Urban Design Red Hook, Brooklyn: Equitable Resilience through Preservation Erica Avrami, Spring 2020, Historic Preservation Reimagining Porta Genova Station Area in Milan/Meatpacking Bid for COVID Recovery Weiping Wu and Francesco Rossini, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Spatial Inequity: Subaltern Urbanism Anupama Rao & Ana P Lee, Spring 2020, Interdisciplinary Sustaining Access and Mobility in Cities Jitendra Bajpai, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Affordable Housing Finance Techniques Richard Froehlich, Fall 2019, Real Estate Development Affordable Housing in High Demand Cities Purnima Kapur, Adam Weinstein, Fall 2019, Urban Planning A Building of one’s own: Feminist Perspectives of Architectural Practice, History, and Criticism Eva Hagberg, Fall 2019, History/Theory Advanced V Studio: Urban Futures/Future Architectures USA 3.0 Mabel Wilson, Fall 2019, Architecture Advanced V Studio: Pedagogy in the Postcolony, A Women’s College in Urban Rwanda Sharon Davis & Tyler Survant, Fall 2019, Architecture Advanced V Studio: De-fencing the Mosque: Investigation into Rural Religious Edifices and Settlements of Djerba Island Ziad Jamaleddine, Fall 2019, Architecture Architecture and Human Rights Felicity Scott, Fall 2019, Fall 2018, History/Theory Community Outreach and Engagement: A Harlem Practicum Maxine Griffith, Victoria Mason-Ailey, Flores Forbes, Fall 2019, Urban Planning Core III Housing Studio Hilary Sample (Coordinator), Daisy Ames, Eric Bunge, Benjamin Cadena, Gabriela Etchegaray, Adam Frampton, Mario Gooden, Galia Solomonoff, Fall 2019, Architecture Difference and Design Justin Moore, Fall 2019, Urban Design Heritage and Sustainable Urbanization: Freetown, Sierra Leone Erica Avrami and Will Raynolds, Fall 2019, Historic Preservation and Urban Planning Preservation Planning and Policy Erica Avrami, Fall 2019, Historic Preservation Theory of City Form Vishaan Chakrabarti, Fall 2019, Urban Design Show Less Affordable Housing Development and Policy Ed Poteat, Spring 2020, Real Estate Development Advanced VI Studio: Amazonia after Fitzcarraldo Pedro Rivera, Spring 2020, Architecture Architecture and Ethics in the Post-Truth Neoliberal Era Nicolai Ouroussoff, Spring 2020, History/Theory Architecture and Settler Colonialism: Territories, Infrastructures, & Institutions Caitlin Blanchfield, Spring 2020, History/Theory Archives of Toxicity Mark Wasiuta, Spring 2020, History/Theory Caribbean Reconnections: A Sustainable Future for Puerto Rico Richard Plunz & Douglas Woodward, Spring 2020, Architecture and Urban Planning Community Development Planning Moira O’Neill, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Cotton Kingdom, Now Sara Zewde, Spring 2020, Urban Design Dark Space: Architecture Representation & Black Identity Mario Gooden, Spring 2020, History/Theory Designing for Zero: Housing, Mobility, Energy Michael Bell Spring 2020, History/Theory Gender and Architecture Bryony Roberts, Spring 2020, History/Theory Global Africa Lab: The Space of Water Mario Gooden, Spring 2020, Architecture In the Name of God: An Investigations in to a Rural Religious Settlement, NY Ziad Jamaleddine, Spring 2020, Architecture Introduction of Housing Lance Freeman, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Kitchenless Stories Anna Puigjaner, Spring 2020, Architecture On Spatial Exclusion and Planning Hiba Bou Akar, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Public Space: Rhetorics of the Pedestrian David Smiley, Spring 2020, Urban Design Red Hook, Brooklyn: Equitable Resilience through Preservation Erica Avrami, Spring 2020, Historic Preservation Reimagining Porta Genova Station Area in Milan/Meatpacking Bid for COVID Recovery Weiping Wu and Francesco Rossini, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Spatial Inequity: Subaltern Urbanism Anupama Rao & Ana P Lee, Spring 2020, Interdisciplinary Sustaining Access and Mobility in Cities Jitendra Bajpai, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Affordable Housing Finance Techniques Richard Froehlich, Fall 2019, Real Estate Development Affordable Housing in High Demand Cities Purnima Kapur, Adam Weinstein, Fall 2019, Urban Planning A Building of one’s own: Feminist Perspectives of Architectural Practice, History, and Criticism Eva Hagberg, Fall 2019, History/Theory Advanced V Studio: Urban Futures/Future Architectures USA 3.0 Mabel Wilson, Fall 2019, Architecture Advanced V Studio: Pedagogy in the Postcolony, A Women’s College in Urban Rwanda Sharon Davis & Tyler Survant, Fall 2019, Architecture Advanced V Studio: De-fencing the Mosque: Investigation into Rural Religious Edifices and Settlements of Djerba Island Ziad Jamaleddine, Fall 2019, Architecture Architecture and Human Rights Felicity Scott, Fall 2019, Fall 2018, History/Theory Community Outreach and Engagement: A Harlem Practicum Maxine Griffith, Victoria Mason-Ailey, Flores Forbes, Fall 2019, Urban Planning Core III Housing Studio Hilary Sample (Coordinator), Daisy Ames, Eric Bunge, Benjamin Cadena, Gabriela Etchegaray, Adam Frampton, Mario Gooden, Galia Solomonoff, Fall 2019, Architecture Difference and Design Justin Moore, Fall 2019, Urban Design Heritage and Sustainable Urbanization: Freetown, Sierra Leone Erica Avrami and Will Raynolds, Fall 2019, Historic Preservation and Urban Planning Preservation Planning and Policy Erica Avrami, Fall 2019, Historic Preservation Theory of City Form Vishaan Chakrabarti, Fall 2019, Urban Design RESEARCH Recent and ongoing research initiatives at GSAPP are highlighted below. Learn more here. New Politics of Care Center for Spatial Research The Center for Spatial Research (CSR) at Columbia GSAPP and the Global Health Justice Partnership (GHJP) of the Yale Law School and Yale School of Public Health launched the website Mapping the New Politics of Care. (Re) coding Walkups Housing Lab The Lab team, in conversations with partners, developed the spring 2020 research into a multi-part business plan: “(Re) coding Walkups.” The business plan lays out an integrated case for innovative and feasible interventions in the existing stock of New York City, with a focus on existing walkups that do not receive subsidies but that house low-income households. Im/mobility and the Afro Imaginary Global Africa Lab With the research project and installation “Im/mobility and the Afro Imaginary” the lab continues to examine the intersections of mobility, race, and liberation in cities across the diaspora. PUBLICATIONS and EXHIBITIONS GSAPP Publications and Exhibitions amplify the school’s discourse on equity through criticism, scholarship, new commissions, and curatorial projects. A selection is featured below. Paths to Prison: On the Architectures of Carcerality The Arab City: Architecture and Representation Sep 27 – Dec 14, 2019 1919: Black Water Arthur Ross Architecture Gallery, Buell Hall Unhoused: Adorno and the Problem of Dwelling A House Is Not Just a House: Projects on Housing Sep 9 – Dec 17, 2017 Living in America Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Gallery, Lenfest Center for the Arts Social Transparency: Projects on Housing Dark Space: Architecture, Representation, Black Identity Preservation and Social Inclusion Mar 31 – May 14, 2016 Every Building in Baghdad Arthur Ross Architecture Gallery Jul 12 – Sep 10, 2016 House Housing: An Untimely History of Architecture and Real Estate Center for Architecture, 536 Laguardia Place, New York And Now: Architecture Against a Developer Presidency 1 / 12 A Selection of Articles from the Avery Review Jen Rose Smith, “Architectures of a Salmon Empire: Territories and (Im)mobilities in the Time of COVID-19,” in the Avery Review 48 (June 2020). Ignacio G. Galán, “Notes on Crip Camp,” in the Avery Review 45 (February 2020). Timmah Ball, “On the Inside ‘Out’: The Architecture of Inclusion in the Diversity Economy,” in the Avery Review 43 (November 2019). Craig L. Wilkins, “Innervisions,” in the Avery Review 42 (October 2019). Irene Sunwoo, “Burden of Proof: Cameron Rowland’s D37,” in the Avery Review 36 (January 2019). Ujijji Davis, “The Bottom: The Emergence and Erasure of Black American Urban Landscapes,” in the Avery Review 34 (October 2018). Kevin Gotkin, ”Stair Worship: Heatherwick’s Vessel,” in the Avery Review 33 (September 2018). Leah Meisterlin, “Not Yet #AfterRikers: Looking for #JusticeInDesign,” in the Avery Review 32 (May 2018). Tizziana Baldenebro, “Chicago Works?: Curating Value and Representation in Chicago, Amanda Williams at the MCA,” in the Avery Review 31 (April 2018). Ife Vanable, “Working the Middle: Harlem River Park Towers and Waterside Plaza,” in the Avery Review 30 (March 2018). The Architecture Lobby, “A Response to AIA Values,” in the Avery Review 23 (April 2017). Ananya Roy, “The Infrastructure of Assent: Professions in the Age of Trumpism,” in the Avery Review 21 (January 2017). Also see the related thematic pages for GSAPP’s work on Climate and Data & Design. Homepage Image Credit “Mapping a New Politics of Care” by the Center for Spatial Research. Project by Eunjin Yoo completed for the Fall 2020 “A City for Child Care” Advanced Architecture Studio 6 led by Bryony Roberts. Project by Emily Ruopp completed for the Fall 2020 “The Architecture of Activism” Advanced Architecture Studio 6 led by Gordon Kipping. Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 (212) 854-3414 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Please click here to sign up for occasional emails © 2022 Columbia University / Colophon