Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving Campus highlights guide Explore self-guided campus highlights Odegaard Undergraduate Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Explore location × Odegaard Undergraduate Library On the UW campus, few locations are more popular for studying than Odegaard. Though plenty of books are stored in this building, Odegaard is primarily aimed toward fostering productivity. The entire second floor houses computer workstations, and private study rooms are plentiful throughout the building. During the academic year, the building is typically open 24/7, so it’s not uncommon to see students finishing up their projects in the small hours of the morning. Additionally, the ground floor of Odegaard is home to the Husky Card Office (for student IDs), By George Café and the Visitor Center. Find on campus map Red Square Red Square Explore location × Red Square Red Square is the epicenter of campus life. Finished in 1971, it takes its name from the reddish-brown bricks that compose this central plaza. In addition to serving as a pathway for thousands of students and faculty walking across campus, Red Square is a hub of campus activity — on any given day, expect to find information booths, food trucks and cultural events. There are always plenty of students handing out pamphlets for a variety of causes, so don’t be surprised if someone offers you a flyer. Beware: Red Square is notoriously slippery when it’s raining, so make sure to watch your step! Find on campus map The Quad The Quad Explore location × The Quad Formally known as the Liberal Arts Quadrangle, the Quad is one of the most photogenic areas of campus. One of its primary draws is its collection of 30 Yoshino cherry trees, which were rescued from a construction project in 1962. Their stunning pink blooms, which emerge toward the end of March, attract visitors from around the world. Even when the trees have finished blooming, the Quad remains a favorite go-to area to spend time outdoors, as students picnic, play games, read or relax in the sun. Find on campus map Denny Hall Denny Hall Explore location × Denny Hall Built in 1895, Denny Hall is the UW’s oldest building; it was the campus’s first when the University relocated from downtown Seattle to its current location. Originally called the Administration Building, Denny used to be the only building on campus — it was where all the action happened, housing all the labs, classrooms, offices and other University activities. Denny Hall was renovated in 2016 to increase natural lighting in the building and give it modern amenities. Find on campus map Bronze W (North) Bronze W (North) Explore location × Bronze W (North) As you enter the campus from 45th St. and 17th Ave. NE, it’s hard not to notice the giant bronze “W” signaling the campus’s north entrance. The 7-foot-tall sculpture is a favorite selfie background for visitors and students, especially cap-and-gown-clad graduates taking pictures each June. Though it’s been around only since 2010, the bronze logo has become an iconic part of the UW campus. A matching W was installed in 2016 at the southern edge of Rainier Vista, to welcome visitors entering campus from the south. If you’re coming to the UW by light rail, you can’t miss it! Find on campus map University Book Store University Book Store Explore location × University Book Store University Book Store, adjacent to campus on University Way NE (“the Ave”), offers much more than required UW textbooks. It’s a popular gathering spot; a place to indulge in retail therapy with gift items, stationery, housewares and more; and a full-service independent bookstore—including a well-loved bargain section. Plus, it’s the No. 1 store for Husky merchandise: sweatshirts, rainwear, backpacks, mugs and more. If you want a quick break from shopping, you can grab a bite or get a caffeine boost at its on-site, full-service coffee shop. Find on campus map Suzzallo Library Suzzallo Library Explore location × Suzzallo Library Often called the “Harry Potter library” because of its towering Gothic architecture, Suzzallo is a beloved campus icon and an intellectual zone in every sense. In contrast to Odegaard, Suzzallo is filled with shelves of books that take up the majority of its square footage. Though there are plenty of study spaces throughout, the focus of this building is the storage and dissemination of knowledge. Its cavernous second-floor reading room is a must-see: With a 65-foot-high vaulted ceiling, stained-glass windows, carved oak bookcases and painted globes on each end, this stunning room, unlike Hogwarts, is silent at all times, perfect for reading your favorite book or getting work done. Find on campus map Husky Union Building Husky Union Building Explore location × Husky Union Building The bustling Husky Union Building (HUB) is the center of student activities on campus. Here you’ll find all sorts of student-serving UW offices, from Student Legal Services to Fraternity and Sorority Life; spaces for events such as career fairs; a food court with nine restaurants; a convenience store; a U.S. Bank branch; and fun surprises like a hair salon, meditation room, gaming area — even a full-size bowling alley! Find on campus map Drumheller Fountain Drumheller Fountain Explore location × Drumheller Fountain Drumheller Fountain is the centerpiece of Rainier Vista, perfectly framed by rose gardens, a long walkway of trees and halls, and Mount Rainier in the distance. Drumheller was originally called Geyser Basin when the UW campus hosted the Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition in 1909. After the exposition, the fountain earned the name “Frosh Pond” for an early college tradition of tossing unsuspecting freshmen into its waters. Today, it’s a great place to take a postcard-worthy photo of one of the UW’s loveliest views. Find on campus map Sylvan Grove Sylvan Grove Explore location × Sylvan Grove Sylvan Grove is an idyllic hidden grassy amphitheater featuring four Greek columns representing Loyalty, Industry, Faith and Efficiency (LIFE). These four pillars were originally part of the first UW building in downtown Seattle, before the University moved to its current location. Though the columns have stood in several places throughout the city, they’ve graced Sylvan Grove since 1911. Traditionally, students touch the pillar they most identify with at the end of their Advising & Orientation session when they first arrive at the University. Find on campus map Bronze W (South) Bronze W (South) Explore location × Bronze W (South) After the addition of the North Campus Bronze W, an identical one was installed in 2016 to welcome visitors to the other end of campus. Located at the southern edge of Rainier Vista, the South Bronze W serves as a welcome for many entering campus from the south. If you’re coming to the University by light rail, you can’t miss it! Find on campus map UW Medical Center UW Medical Center Explore location × UW Medical Center Though technically part of the greater University of Washington campus, the UW Medical Center at Montlake is a campus in its own right. This sprawling complex of buildings makes up the No. 1 hospital in Washington state. Every day, over 5,500 of its staff work to improve the health and well-being of Washington residents. Find on campus map Husky Stadium Husky Stadium Explore location × Husky Stadium Situated on the Lake Washington shoreline, with the Cascade Mountains in the distance, Husky Stadium has been called “the greatest setting in college football.” On fall Saturdays, the roars of fans emanating from the 70,138-seat stadium can be heard across the University District, making it one of the nation’s loudest. In addition to the swarms of tailgaters who come on game day, thousands of “sailgaters” get in on the action from their boats in Union Bay. Find on campus map Waterfront Activities Center Waterfront Activities Center Explore location × Waterfront Activities Center The Waterfront Activities Center (WAC) rents canoes and kayaks to the public between April and October. Water lovers can get out on Lake Washington and explore the surrounding area, including the gentle, winding waterways of the Washington Park Arboretum. Other interesting locations near the WAC include the Husky Climbing Rock and the 1918 ASUW (Associated Students of the University of Washington) Shellhouse, used as a Navy seaplane hangar during World War I and as a boathouse by the Husky men’s rowing team — who won Olympic gold in 1936 and were immortalized in Daniel James Brown’s bestselling “The Boys in the Boat.” Find on campus map UW Botanic Gardens UW Botanic Gardens Explore location × UW Botanic Gardens Comprising the Washington Park Arboretum and the Center for Urban Horticulture, the University of Washington Botanic Gardens are beautiful retreats from the urban environment. Located just south of campus, the arboretum consists of seven gardens, including the Pacific Connections, Woodland and Japanese gardens. Stroll the many trails or rent a kayak or canoe from the UW Waterfront Activities Center to paddle through the arboretum’s waterways. Northeast of campus, the Center for Urban Horticulture features several gardens and a student-run urban farm, and is a great location for bird-watching. Find on campus map Experience the arts at the UW Visit the Arts UW website to find out about upcoming events on campus. Plan your visit Note: Each photograph above was taken following the appropriate safety protocols at the time. Return to Visitor Center Campus map University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA