Skip to main content Menu Audiences Home Faculty/Staff Resources Departments Centers and Institutes Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Prospective Students Current Students Research About News Partner Menu Biosystems Engineering What is it? As we continue to discover ways to make life better, it’s important to understand the side effects our discoveries may have on the bigger picture. Our environment is changing, both naturally and artificially — and we often find the solution to one problem may cause another elsewhere. Biosystems engineering is a field dedicated to studying the footprints our bright ideas may leave on the earth and determining the best courses of action to prevent permanent harm. From miracle pharmaceuticals to alternative energy and ecological balance, biosystems engineers are leading the way to a better life for all. What will I study? As a student of biosystems engineering, you’ll learn the fundamentals of engineering science, including three core areas of engineering design - process, structure, and mechanics. In addition, you’ll study the biological sciences so you may apply your engineering skills to a wide array of biological applications. Courses include hands-on, team-based experiential learning activities to prepare you to solve some of humankind’s most pressing dilemmas including fossil fuel dependence, sustainable community development and the complex interaction between biological systems and engineering design. What type of research will I do? Creative Inquiry and undergraduate research opportunities abound in this field. Innovative research is being conducted in bioprocessing (the natural production of substances by microbial cultures), biofuels (biodiesel, hydrogen, and ethanol) and nontoxic alternatives to chemical processing and recovery of water, energy and other side-products. Research in ecological engineering focuses on the management and treatment of non-point source pollution, water conservation and reuse in biofuel production, ecological restoration, and low impact development with special focus on coastal communities. Where is my future in biosystems engineering? Recent graduates of the program have found fulfilling industry positions in a wide array of fields such as biofuels production (Bioenergy International, Lake Erie Biofuels), nutraceutical/ pharmaceutical production (Martek Biosciences, Sumitomo Pharmaceutical), environmental design (Hazen and Sawyer, Woolpert) and environmental protection (EPA and DHEC). Those wishing to pursue advanced degrees have been recruited by graduate programs in biosystems, environmental or biomedical engineering at prestigious universities such as Vanderbilt, Stanford and Georgia Tech. Where can I find out more about Clemson’s biosystems engineering program? Visit http://www.clemson.edu/cecas/departments/eees/academics/undrgrad/be/ for more information Fall 2021 Enrollment 54 Undergraduates 48% Women 80% In-State 19% Underrepresented Race/Ethnicities 6 Masters Students 4 Doctoral Students Undergraduate Students College Viewbook Majors Visit Us Request Information Cooperative Education and Internships Undergraduate Research RISE - Residents in Science and Engineering SPECTRA Transfer Program Transfer and Dual-Education Student Services Resources FAQ & Laptop Information Graduate Students Degree Programs Off-Campus Programs Beyond the Classroom Copyright © Clemson University Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences | Riggs Hall, Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3202 | Website Technical Contact: CECAS Web Services Coordinator Page Update Requests