University of Houston at Sugar Land - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters Your browser does not support the video tag. Undergraduate Programs Dining Services Shuttle Information INNOVATION. MOMENTUM. The University of Houston at Sugar Land, an instructional site of the University of Houston, offers undergraduate and graduate programs from the UH Colleges of Nursing, Technology, Education, Social Work and Liberal Arts and Social Sciences. Value Statement At the University of Houston at Sugar Land, we value building a legacy of: Diversity: We believe that the strength of our successful region lies in the diversity of our people, traditions, perspectives and talents. We champion that. Relationships: We believe the foundation of all successes are the relationships that lead to meaningful collaborations, impact and growth. We cultivate those. Community: We believe our students, faculty, staff, families, industries, partners and neighbors create the energy for opportunities to move us forward as an institute of higher education. We invest in them. Impact: We believe in creating empathetic leaders who are anchors for the community—the next generation of diversity champions. We are committed. Semester Information General Building Hours Academic Calendar Parking & Transportation Student Services Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Bookstore Learn more about the UH colleges and programs in Sugar Land >>> Want to speak with someone about UH at Sugar Land? Reach out to Kim Williams, Program Director, at slprograms@uh.edu Take a Virtual Tour of UH at Sugar Land powered by YouVisit. Diversity Over Division Mural Poem Watch Deborah D.E.E.P. Mouton read Growing Tomorrow in a Field of Today, the poem that influenced the artwork for the Diversity Over Division mural. Diversity Initiative Diversity Over Division is a collaboration with the Fort Bend County Judge’s Office, the University of Houston at Sugar Land and the Fort Bend County Libraries. Launched in August of 2020, Diversity Over Division is a celebration of the diversity of culture and perspectives in Fort Bend County and the University of Houston. Learn how UH at Sugar Land is celebrating & fostering diversity >> Top Story Summer Camps at UH at Sugar Land Offer Fun & Education in STEM, Biotech Fields The University of Houston at Sugar Land is offering three summer camps for students in grades 3-12 designed to develop the next generation of coders, digital storytellers, game designers and molecular biologists. “We've been virtual for two years due to the pandemic,” said Bulent Dogan, clinical assistant professor in the UH College of Education. “We are very excited about coming back in person, but we still will offer a virtual camp for parents interested in that option.” Read more… News Archive > Fast Facts 22Undergraduate, graduate programs 200+More than 200 faculty provide instruction 5UH Colleges offering programs, classes 4Home to four pieces in the University System’s Public Art Collection 2019New College of Technology building opened 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies