Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Campus Recreation Hours-Schedule Member Services Member Services Online Member Portal Online Member Portal Instructions Membership Rates Fees Room Reservations and Events Parking Programs Programs Aquatics Fitness Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Youth Spirit Spirit Band Rotunda Spirit Squads About ☰ Campus Recreation Member Services Fees Miscellaneous Fees and Products Guest Pass Student Family/Friends Pass: $10.00 A one-time use of the Dedman Center for a family member or friend of an SMU Student. This pass must be utilized within two days of purchase and is non-refundable. Pass must be purchased by the student. ONLY available through the Dedman Center’s Online Member Portal (not available at the Dedman Center front desk). Family/Friend must be an adult, 18 years of age or older. Family/Friend will be required to present a government issued photo ID to the front desk upon arrival. Family/Friend must be able to provide Student Name and Student SMU ID number (student does not need to be present). Family/Friend will be required to sign a Release of Liability and Indemnification form. Additional fees may apply for services such as the Climbing Wall. ALUMNI or SMU Employee Pass: $15.00 Permits SMU Alumni or Faculty/Staff, without membership, to a single-visit use of the Dedman Center. Only valid for the individual SMU Alumni or Faculty/Staff that purchases. May be purchased up to two days prior to use, is non-refundable, and is non-transferable. ONLY available through the Dedman Center’s Online Member Portal (not available at the Dedman Center’s front desk). Requires an Online Member Portal account. Minor children (under age 18) are not permitted entry to the Dedman Center with guest pass. Alumni or Faculty/Staff will be required to present a government issued photo ID to the front desk upon arrival. Additional fees may apply for services such as the Climbing Wall. DAILY GUEST PASS: $20.00 Permits a Non-SMU affiliated individual, without membership, a single-use visit of the Dedman Center. Only for the individual that purchases. May be purchased up to two days prior to use, is non-refundable, and is non-transferable. ONLY available through the Dedman Center’s Online Member Portal (not available at the Dedman Center). Available for adults, age 18 or older. Minor children (under age 18) are not permitted entry to the Dedman Center with guest pass. Requires the creation of an Online Member Portal account and profile. Requires a government issued photo ID presented to the front desk upon arrival. Additional fees may apply for services such as the Climbing Wall. Replacement Membership Card $40 + tax Replacement ID card must be purchased if current Dedman Member Card is deemed inoperable within 2 years of original issue. Damage Equipment Replacement Variable fee charge to replace unreturned, missing, or damaged check out equipment based on price charged to replace with new equipment. Equipment Retrieval Fee $45 Fee for to retrieve balls or other equipment requiring roof access, additional manpower, or additional equipment. Forgotten ID Fee $5.00 Dedman Members are permitted 2 forgotten ID cards each semester. Government issued photo ID can be used in place of SMU ID. If unable to produce a photo ID after 2 forgotten ID, must pay the fee to enter. Only valid with current membership. Lockers Half Locker (Men & Women): $20/ 1-semester $40/ 2-semesters $50/ 3-semesters or annual Full Locker (Women Only): $30/ 1-semester $60/ 2-semesters $80/ 3-semesters or annual Only VISA, MasterCard, or Discover credit cards accepted. Lockers must be rented in-person at the Dedman Center front desk. Rental renewals may be purchased at the front desk or Online Member Portal. Must provide own lock for rental lockers Renters will be notified via email of upcoming expiration beginning 30 days from expiration. Upon Expiration, lock will be cut and contents emptied. Items not retrieved within 3 months will be donated to charity. Day Use Lockers available at no charge and locker must be emptied by closing. Standard Locker Combination Lock: $8 plus tax Towels Bath Towel Service: Unlimited bath towels for the duration of the service with a limit of 2 towels at a single time. Towels available from the Fitness Floor desk. $20/ 1-semester $35/ 2-semesters $50/ 3-semesters Service may be purchased in-person from the front desk or Online Member Portal. No single towel purchases. Only VISA, MasterCard, or Discover credit cards accepted. Tennis Balls 3-Pack $5 Name brand, quality tennis balls. No refund once opened. Accepted Payment Types: · Credit Cards (Discover, MasterCard, or VISA) Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share