Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager University Human Resources Temporary Employment Brown University offers two alternatives for the temporary employment of workers: nextSource* Seasonal/Intermittent *Please expect that international hiring through NextSource will take additional time; onboarding times vary based on country and location. Most countries outside of the US have higher social costs therefore there may be additional fees associated. Please note: Brown University employee's are not eligible to have a concurrent position through NextSource. What's the difference? Seasonal / Intermittent Workers nextSource Workers Is the person on the Brown payroll? Yes No Are there advertising costs? Yes No Are I-9 and background checks required? Yes Yes Is the position paid hourly? Yes Yes Will the department pay for recruitment? Yes No Is the department charged an additional fee? No Yes How are wages funded? Salary budget Operating budget Will the worker have a Brown email address? Yes Yes Are departments charged the minimum fringe benefit rate? Yes No Are temporary workers eligible for annual rate increases under Brown’s performance and merit programs for staff? No No International hiring? No Yes When to hire Hire someone from nextSource when... Hire Seasonal/Intermittent Worker when... There is a short-term or project-based need occuring once. There is a need for the position on a consistent basis. The position will not be included in your department's staffing plan. The position will be added to your department's staffing plan. Start and end times will vary. The position typically starts and ends at approximately the same times each year. The position's responsibilities are unique. The position is similar in nature to other positions in your department and/or is part of the core work. Hiring Process Click here to fill a position using nextSource Click here to fill a seasonal/intermittent position Important Reminder: Departmental funds must be available to hire temporary staff. Related Forms and Documents Job Description Form Seasonal/Intermittent Workers Temporary Hiring Frequently Asked Questions VNDLY Quick Reference Guide Recruitment & Staffing [email protected] Job Transfers: Navigate Your Career For New Hires Hiring Staff at Brown Temporary Employment Also in University Human Resources Benefits Compensation Employee & Labor Relations Annual Staff Evaluations Separating Employees Staff Conflict of Interest and Commitment Recruitment & Staffing [email protected] Job Transfers: Navigate Your Career For New Hires Hiring Staff at Brown Temporary Employment Student Employment Talent Development Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Human Resources University Human Resources Brown University Box 1879 350 Eddy Street, 4th floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3175 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat