Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Preprofessional Health Studies (undeclared) LEARN MORE ABOUT The preprofessional health studies program at Clemson is a great starting point for students interested in continuing on to health professional schools such as medical, dental and physicians assistant, as well as a variety of other programs. Although this program exists as an option on the undergraduate application, we do not offer a degree in preprofessional health studies. There are a variety of popular majors that easily fulfill the basic entrance requirements, but you can truly choose from any curriculum that fits your interests and goals. All students are encouraged to choose a major by sophomore year. Professional schools have no preferences or prejudices relating to major and are more interested in overall academic performance. This is evident in the fact that their entering students represent a broad spectrum of curricula from biological sciences to economics. FAST FACTS On average, 44 percent of Clemson students who apply to medical school are accepted. On average, 41 percent of Clemson students who apply to dental school are accepted. Our chief health professions adviser is available to students in all majors. Clemson's chapters of Alpha Epsilon Delta, American Medical Student Association (AMSA), and Pre-Dental Club serve as great professional development resources for students. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY The benefit of starting in the preprofessional health studies program is the specialized advising from day one with our health professions adviser, who serves as a guide for students toward their ultimate goal. It is critical that our students work closely with an adviser in selecting course work as there are varying admissions requirements for each advanced degree and school. Our health professions adviser is available to help you navigate through the process. Depending on your desired career path, course requirements typically include biology, inorganic and organic chemistry, physics and mathematics. While at Clemson, you can build a résumé full of diverse experiences based on your personal interests and career goals. There are vast opportunities to become immersed in scientific research, and we encourage students to gain work experience or even travel abroad while at Clemson. Our undergraduate research program — called Creative Inquiry — allows you to conduct research with a team of fellow undergraduate students and a faculty mentor. Plus, our faculty are great about opening up their laboratories to welcome volunteers, student workers or independent projects. In addition, there are numerous health organizations on campus that you can get involved in to meet other students, network and learn more about your intended profession. Similar Majors Biochemistry (B.S.) Bioengineering (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Genetics (B.S.) Health Science (B.S.) Microbiology (B.S.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.) FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Sharetta Bufford Recruiter 864-656-3296 Email Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Preprofessional Health Studies (undeclared) Biochemistry (B.S.) Bioengineering (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Genetics (B.S.) Health Science (B.S.) Microbiology (B.S.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.)