Close Alert Message Alert Carolina! Normal The University is currently operating under normal conditionsLast updated at 6:00pmFriday, May 27th, 2022Skip to Main Content Top Level Navigation Discover Navigate Navigate About the UniversityDisplay Sub Menu for About the University About the University Alumni By the numbers Branding and Identity GuidelinesOpens in new site Carolina NextOpens in new site For the MediaOpens in new site Frequently Asked Questions History and Traditions Leadership Mission & Values Support the University UNC Social Media UNC SystemOpens in new site News and UpdatesDisplay Sub Menu for News and Updates News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Working at CarolinaOpens in new site Campaign for CarolinaOpens in new site AcademicsDisplay Sub Menu for Academics Academics Academic Calendar and Registrar Academic Enhancements Continuing Education Opportunities Academic Departments Friday Center for Continuing Education Libraries Online and Distance EducationOpens in new site Programs and Curricula Summer School Admissions and Aid SchoolsDisplay Sub Menu for Schools Schools College of Arts & Sciences Adams School of Dentistry Education Eshelman School of Pharmacy Gillings School of Global Public Health Government Graduate School Information & Library Science Law Kenan-Flagler Business School Hussman School of Journalism and Media Medicine Nursing Social Work Come Visit Us Diversity and Inclusion Research Innovation and Economic Development Arts and Culture GlobalOpens in new site Life at CarolinaDisplay Sub Menu for Life at Carolina Life at Carolina About the Town Campus Recreation Carolina Housing Carolina UnionOpens in new site Community and Public Service Health & Wellness AthleticsDisplay Sub Menu for Athletics Athletics GoHeels.comOpens in new site Campus RecreationOpens in new site IntramuralsOpens in new site Sports ClubsOpens in new site UNC HealthOpens in new site Search The University of North Carolina at Chapel HillHide Main Navigation Menu Featured Diamond Heels claim ACC title Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Search PeopleOpens in new window PlacesOpens in new window Search UNC.edu Public Service Good Bowls pays it forward during the pandemic A UNC Gillings School of Global Public Health professor's effort to provide healthy foods to families in need also helps struggling restaurants during the pandemic. By Amy Fulk, UNC Gillings School of Global Public Health, Wednesday, May 25th, 2022 Good Bowls partners and local volunteers assemble healthy meals for families in Chatham County. Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Pinterest Share via Email Print Friendly For longtime nutrition researcher Alice Ammerman, Mildred Distinguished Professor of nutrition at the Gillings School of Global Public Health and director of the UNC Center for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention, working to address long-term public health issues like chronic disease and food insecurity required a long-term solution. “In this line of research, I kept finding that I couldn’t make a lasting impact — when a grant ends, a program ends,” she says. “I needed to find a way to build something that was self-sustaining.” In 2018, Ammerman founded social venture start-up Equiti Foods and created Good Bowls, nutritious frozen meals that are prepared using products from local farmers. Online and in-store product sales, along with grants and donations, help provide cost-subsidized bowls to communities that otherwise lack access to nutritious, healthy meals. When the COVID-19 pandemic hit, the Good Bowls team designed an innovative initiative called “Pay it Forward” — a collaboration among Good Bowls, Pittsboro Eats! and other community organizations, small farmers, local restaurants and volunteers — to promote good nutrition and help food-insecure families during the pandemic. The idea was inspired by a story Ammerman heard on the radio about someone in Texas paying a restaurant to provide food for families in California. “I thought if it could work from Texas to California, it could work here,” she says. Funded partly by an NIH grant with supplemental COVID funding, the initiative uses social media to urge people to donate a bowl (or more) through an online portal. Ammerman coaches participating restaurants on a healthy bowl recipe along with options for sourcing from local farmers. The restaurant cooks a big batch of food for the bowls, which are then packed and sealed by the Good Bowls team and local volunteer groups. The bowls are frozen and delivered to Communities in Schools for distribution in Siler City, where there is a large Latinx population hit hard by COVID-19 and food insecurity. Since it began in June, Pay it Forward has provided more than 1,500 donated meals to local families, while helping local farmers increase their sales and providing local restaurant partners with a COVID-safe boost in business. “It made sense for us to partner with Good Bowls because our relationships with local families allow us to get those resources to people in need,” says CIS Executive Director Tych Cowdin. “Distributing perishable foods with a small staff can be difficult, so having healthy frozen meals is a wonderful idea. Another thing I appreciate about Good Bowls is that they are always so responsive to what people want and need — they are always seeking feedback from the clients and from their partners.” That responsiveness is in keeping with Ammerman’s reliance on community-based participatory research, a research approach that focuses on partnerships between researchers and the community in order to improve health outcomes and build community capacity. “My research has always been very applied and practice-oriented because I’ve always wanted to do something that has a more lasting impact. My focus is on trying to understand what communities need and working with them to develop strategies to address these needs,” she says. “Intensive research-driven interventions may be totally impractical and unsustainable in practice, so involving community partners who are ‘in the trenches’ is really important.” Learn more about how Gillings is putting public health research into practice in the spring issue of Carolina Public Health Categories Public Service Keep Reading Comeback puts women’s lacrosse in championship game You May Also Like... Diamond Heels claim ACC title It was the team's first appearance in the title game since winning the title in 2019 and marks the eighth conference tournament win in program history. Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title The top-ranked Tar Heels finished the season 22-0, setting a school record for wins and becoming the first undefeated national champion since 2017. Comeback puts women’s lacrosse in championship game With a 15-14 win over Northwestern, the top-ranked Tar Heels improved to 21-0 on the season and will play for their third NCAA title. Display Previous Slide of Related Articles Carousel Display Next Slide of Related Articles Carousel A commitment to the Carolina family: Jenny Levy’s leadership Jenny Levy is only the fourth person to both play on and coach a national championship women's lacrosse team. Her overall record as the Tar Heels' head mentor has been exemplary, and on Sunday the team will play for its third national title. Filing flora More than 800,000 rare, extinct and native flora have been preserved by the North Carolina Botanical Garden’s Herbarium, where biodiversity is found in every filing cabinet. Pillar of Ground Services leads quietly Whether preparing for Spring Commencement or cleaning up debris in fall, Massey winner Mark Moon keeps Carolina’s campus beautiful and his colleagues safe. Display Previous Slide of Related Articles Carousel Display Next Slide of Related Articles Carousel May 06 – Sep 12 Health Insurance is Mandatory! Campus Health Services320 Emergency Room DriveChapel HillNC27599 | May 31 Carolina Public Humanities – Great Books Reading Group 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Flyleaf Books752 Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.Chapel HillNC27514 | $40 Jun 03 600 HIGHWAYMEN | A Thousand Ways (Part Three): An Assembly 8:00 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. CURRENT ArtSpace + Studio123 W Franklin StChapel Hill27516 | $15 Display Previous Slide of Events Carousel Display Next Slide of Events Carousel Accessibility Alert Carolina Alumni Connect Carolina Campus Map Contact Us Careers Departments A – Z Ethics and Integrity For the Media Libraries People Directory Privacy Statement UNC Student Stores The Well Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest © 2022 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share LinkedIn E-mail