Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Division of Campus Life Home About Us Resources Student Initiatives Staff Initiatives News & Events Campus Life in the News Campus Life Newsletter Wellness Residential Experience at Sternlicht Commons Site Navigation Home About Us Mission, Vision, Values Senior Team Executive Group Organizational Chart Office of the VP for Campus Life Resources Emergency Contacts Campus Resources Remote Access to Campus Resources Help for Students in Distress Graduate and Medical School Students Campus Life Staff Resources For Parents & Families Legal Services - Open Hours Student Initiatives Student Awards Buoy Newsletter The Culture of Respect at Brown Campus Life Student Advisory Board CLSAB 20-21 Membership CLSAB 21-22 Membership Disability Justice Student Initiative Disability History at Brown Timeline JUST Lead Leadership Development Initiative Staff Initiatives Campus Safety Working Group Campus Life Fellowship Campus Life Staff Excellence Awards Multi-Partial Team Professional Development Grant for Staff News & Events Campus Life in the News Campus Life Newsletter Wellness Residential Experience at Sternlicht Commons Space Programming Housing Selection FAQs Housing Application Campus Life in the News Staff Spotlight: Anja Lee Mon May 16 Describe briefly what you do and how long you have been at Brown. Read More Staff Spotlight: Alexis Wilson Mon Mar 28 Describe briefly what you do and how long you have been at Brown. I work in the Key Office as an Operations Assistant! I started in this department in July '21, but have been working at Brown for 5 years now. Read More Staff Spotlight: Sarah Ballman Mon Mar 7 Describe briefly what you do and how long you have been at Brown. I have been at Brown since 10/25/21. What professional accomplishment are you most proud of? Read More Staff Spotlight: Jonell Thibault Mon Feb 14 Describe briefly what you do and how long you have been at Brown. I am the Operations and Administrative Coordinator for BWell Health Promotion, and have been at Brown for about four months. What professional accomplishment are you most proud of? I’m really proud to be here, at Brown. To have been chosen to be a part of the BWell Health Promotion team, at an Ivy League Institution is a pretty big deal. Read More Staff Spotlight: Ashton Darrett Mon Jan 24 Describe briefly what you do and how long you have been at Brown. Read More Staff Spotlight: Stephanie Norris Mon Dec 13 Describe briefly what you do and how long you have been at Brown. I have been at Brown for a whole year! I contribute to Residential Life at Brown by managing the day-to-day operations of the key office and supporting my colleagues in the operations team with different aspects of the student housing process. What work projects most excite you? Read More Staff Spotlight: Stephanie Zielinski Mon Nov 22 Describe briefly what you do and how long you have been at Brown. I started at Brown at the end of August 2021 and I serve as an Area Coordinator for First Year Experience and Houses! So, I specifically assist with first-year student development and transition to University life by being a resource for students. What professional accomplishment are you most proud of? Read More Staff Spotlight: Kris Tangen Tue Nov 9 Describe briefly what you do and how long you have been at Brown. I have been at Brown for 3 months at this point! My work at Brown involves developing the Brown University New Student Orientation program as well as supporting the First Year Experience at Brown. It is my hope to create an engaging and thoughtful bridge for students as they come to Brown for their first year of college! What work projects most excite you? Read More Staff Spotlight: Sue Viera Mon Oct 25 Describe briefly what you do and how long you have been at Brown. I will be providing support for anything that involves all areas of Residential Life in order to ensure communication, equity and inclusion throughout the department. I have been at Brown for 6 years. What professional accomplishment are you most proud of? Centralizing international support in establishing Global Brown. What work projects most excite you? Read More Sarah Ballman Joins Residential Life as Assistant Director for Program & Theme Houses Mon Oct 25 Read More Staff Spotlight: maisune Abu-Elhaija Mon Sep 20 Describe briefly what you do and how long you have been at Brown. I just joined Brown University in August 2021 as Area Coordinator of Program and Theme House Communities in the Office of Residential Life. What professional accomplishment are you most proud of? Read More Andrea Vacca Joins Campus Life as Financial Coordinator Wed Sep 8 We are pleased to announce that Andrea Vacca has been appointed to one of the three newly created Financial Coordinator positions for the Division of Campus Life. Andrea joins us from the Community College or Rhode Island where she served as an Enrollment Services Representative. Prior to working in Enrollment Services, Andrea achieved her B.S. in Health Studies from University of Rhode Island in 2019. Read More Cody Goncalves Joins Campus Life as Financial Coordinator Wed Sep 8 Read More Ashton Darrett Joins Student Support Services as Associate Dean Wed Sep 8 Read More Christopher Lujan Joins Student Support Services as Associate Dean Wed Sep 8 Read More Lisa Middleton Joins Campus Life as Director of Human Resources Wed Sep 8 Read More Debra Scott Joins Campus Life as Financial Coordinator Wed Sep 8 We are pleased to announce that Debra Scott has been appointed to one of the three newly created Financial Coordinator positions for the Division of Campus Life. Debra joins us from Sodexo where she was the Executive Administrative Assistant to the VP & District Manager for over 12 years. During her time working at Sodexo, Debra also attended the University of Rhode Island and received her Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies, Business Administration Major degree in 2015. Read More Mikele St-Germain Joins Campus Life as Director of Parent & Family Engagement Tue Sep 7 We are pleased to announce the appointment of Mikele St-Germain as the Director of Parent & Family Engagement. This new role is charged with developing a strategic approach to building connections with parents and families and providing opportunities for positive engagement. She will begin on September 20, 2021. Read More Staff Spotlight: Elliot Ruggles Mon Sep 6 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Ana Afonso Joins Health Services as Pharmacy Technician Fri Sep 3 Ana is a new pharmacy technician here at Brown Health Services. She will be helping us out on the weekends as she works full time at the VA in Providence as an inpatient pharmacy technician. She has been at the VA for six years now. Ana is also pursuing a degree in Pharmacy Informatics. Read More Stephanie (Steph) Sortino Joins Residential Life as Area Coordinator Mon Aug 30 Read More Léhi Valladares Joins Residential Life as Area Coordinator Mon Aug 30 Read More Staff Spotlight: Adam Pallant Mon Aug 23 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Terrence Sanders Appointed Director of Program and Theme Houses Mon Aug 23 Read More Natalia Román Alicea Joins the Global Brown Center for International Students as Program Coordinator Thu Aug 19 Dear Colleagues, I am so pleased to announce that Natalia Román Alicea joins the Global Brown Center for International Students as our new Program Coordinator. Read More Brenda Ice Joins Residential Life as Senior Associate Dean and Senior Director Wed Aug 18 After a competitive national search, we have chosen Brenda Ice to serve as the senior associate dean and senior director of the newly reorganized and expanded Office of Residential Life. Brenda is a visionary leader with more than twenty years of experience in higher education and an exceptional track record of leading capital projects, strategic planning, assessment management, policy development, budget management, crisis and case management, and systems implementation all in service to student learning and support. Read More Scott Helfrich Joins Residential Life as Director of Upper-Division Houses Wed Aug 18 Scott Helfrich will be joining Residential Life on October 4 as the Director of Upper-Division Houses where he will bring a relational, strategic, and coordinated approach to the administration and management of the Upper-Division Houses. Scott will lead a team of five -- the Residential Coordinator and four Area Coordinators -- in delivering an intentional residential experience that is aligned with Brown’s Liberal Learning Goals for the Open Curriculum. Scott will report to the Senior Associate Dean and Senior Director of Residential Life. Read More Kris Tangen Appointed Assistant Director of First Year Houses and Experience Mon Aug 16 Read More Kathleen Towne Appointed Assistant Director of Financial Operations Mon Aug 9 We are pleased to announce that Kathleen Towne has been appointed to the newly created position of Assistant Director of Financial Operations for the Division of Campus Life. Kat joins us from the Department of Athletics and Physical Education where she provided financial support for four years. Prior to Brown, Kat worked at Wagner College, earning her MBA in Management while leading athletic ticketing and marketing operations. Kat is also a graduate of Fordham University, where she earned a B.A. in Political Science. Read More Staff Spotlight: Tanya Purdy Mon Aug 9 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Staff Spotlight: Steven Lewis Mon Jul 26 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Staff Spotlight: Koren Bakkegard Mon Jul 12 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Staff Spotlight: Jermaine Pearson Tue Jun 29 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Staff Spotlight: Anne-Marie Ponte Mon Jun 14 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Shea Middleton, Katey Wright, Hailey Flavin Join the Office of Student Conduct & Community Standards Tue Jun 1 The Office of Student Conduct & Community Standards is pleased to announce three recent additions to our team who have joined us through December. Read More Staff Spotlight: Marc Peters Mon May 31 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Meredith Scarlata Dawson joins Campus Life as Director of Financial Planning and Analysis Wed May 19 We are pleased to announce Meredith Scarlata Dawson has been appointed to the newly created position of Director of Financial Planning and Analysis for the Division of Campus Life. Read More Staff Spotlight: Takyah Smith Mon May 17 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Vincent T. Harris, PhD, Joins Campus Life as Associate Dean and Director of the Brown Center for Students of Color Mon May 17 New staff member announcement Read More Staff Spotlight: Mitchell Foster Mon May 3 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Staff Spotlight: Deborah Nagle Mon Apr 19 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Dana Hamdan Joins Campus Life as Senior Director and Chief of Staff Wed Apr 14 Dear Colleagues, I hope you and your families are healthy and well. I am most pleased to announce the appointment of Dana Hamdan as senior director for strategic engagement and chief of staff. Read More Staff Spotlight: Alfred Akuoko-Boateng Mon Apr 5 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Staff Spotlight: Frank Garcia-Ornelas Mon Mar 22 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Staff Spotlight: Sage Morgan-Hubbard Mon Mar 8 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Frank Garcia-Ornelas will join the Brown Center for Students of Color as Assistant Director Fri Mar 5 Dear Colleagues, Read More Staff Spotlight: Love Wallace Mon Feb 22 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Campus Life First Year Webinar Mon Feb 22 Read More Staff Spotlight: Kerry Varela Mon Feb 8 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Staff Spotlight: Zersha Munir Mon Jan 25 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More 2020 Excellence Award Recipients from Campus Life Wed Jan 13 Dara Bayer - Diversity & Inclusion Read More Staff Spotlight: Corey Fitzgerald Mon Dec 7 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Zersha Munir hired as the new Health and Wellness Communications Specialist Mon Dec 7 Read More Takyah Smith joined the BWell team as the new Health Promotion Specialist Fri Dec 4 New staff member announcement Read More Staff Spotlight: Amber Jackson Mon Nov 9 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Keyana Parks & Orchid Tierney (Kenyon College) discuss RADICAL HOPE Thu Nov 5 Read More Staff Spotlight: Jonathan Corey Mon Oct 26 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Staff Spotlight: Caitlin O’Neill Tue Oct 13 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Staff Spotlight: Nick Dow Mon Sep 28 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Brown Takes Care Mon Sep 28 Read More Campus Life taking steps to address anti-Black racism Fri Sep 18 As a division, we have been creating and continue to create spaces for students and colleagues to support each other as well as to take up issues of equity and inclusion. Read More Staff Spotlight: Linda Welsh Mon Sep 14 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Passing of a Brown Student Mon Sep 14 September 14, 2020 Dear Members of the Brown Community, We write to share very sad news. We received word recently from the family of Milan Samardjiski, Class of 2023 that he had died unexpectedly. Milan was at home with his family in Macedonia. Read More New Residential Area Coordinator Team Mon Aug 31 Meet the new members of the Area Coordinator team at the Office of Residential Life Read More Staff Spotlight: Saara Moskowitz Mon Aug 31 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Tere Ramos, Interim Director of Student Accessibility Services Mon Aug 31 Read full announcement. Read More Love Wallace, Assistant Dean of Student Conduct & Community Standards Mon Aug 31 Read full announcement. Read More Staff Spotlight: Peter Mello Mon Aug 17 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Staff Spotlight: Michelle Dardashti Mon Aug 3 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Staff Spotlight: Ana Barraza Mon Jul 20 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More BCSC Director Search Update #4 Fri Jun 19 The Search Committee met through the spring semester and has continued to meet this summer with the goal of developing an initial draft of a job description for the BCSC Director based on the listening sessions this spring and developing a plan moving forward for the search and hiring process given the evolving significant impact of the pandemic. Read More Staff Spotlight: Tara Greenwood Mon Jun 15 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Staff Spotlight: Maria Duarte Tue Jun 2 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Maria Duarte's Retirement Thu May 21 Read More Staff Spotlight: Ifeoma Obiora Mon May 18 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Staff Spotlight: Sean Thompson Mon May 11 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter Read More Both virtually and on-site, topping-off ceremony celebrates future health and wellness center at Brown Mon May 11 The under-construction center and residence hall on Brook Street in Providence remains on track to bring the University’s health and wellness programs under one roof as early as Spring 2021. View full article Read More Staff Spotlight: Heather Aliotta Mon May 4 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter. Read More Brown Coach Mike Martin, 45 Division I Basketball Coaches, Unite As ‘Team New England’ To Combat Covid-19 Thu Apr 16 Inspired by the unprecedented show of unity among New York’s Division I men’s and women’s basketball coaches, 45 men’s and women’s basketball coaches at 23 Division I schools across New England have come together to form TEAM NEW ENGLAND. As part of the team, each coach will use his or her social media platform to share public health guidelines with their audience in an effort to help mitigate the spread of COVID-19. Fans can follow the #TEAMNEWENGLAND hashtag on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Read article Read More Staff Spotlight: Dr. Gillian Morris Mon Apr 13 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter Read More Response Required: Off-Campus Student Information and Resources Mon Mar 30 Dear Off-Campus Undergraduate Students, Read More Staff Spotlight: Andrew Heald Fri Mar 27 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter Read More Ways to practice self-care when you work from home Thu Mar 26 When working from home, it's imperative to create boundaries and self-care rituals to maintain a healthy lifestyle. When your living space is also your working space, it's particularly easy to fall into the bad habit of never turning off — and that's not ideal for your mental or physical well-being. Here are some self-care tips: Read More Update on Campus Life Support for All On-Campus Students Fri Mar 20 Dear Students, Read More Update on Campus Life Support for All Graduate Students Fri Mar 20 Dear Graduate Students, Read More Update on Campus Life Support for All Undergraduate Students Fri Mar 20 Dear Undergraduate Students, We hope this finds you well considering the challenging circumstances. We are so sorry for the ongoing disruption to your semester and the stress that it has caused. It’s heartbreaking and we’ve had to make some of the most challenging decisions of our careers in recent days. At the same time, we also really appreciate and value the acts of kindness and generosity we’ve witnessed that make us grateful to be a part of a caring community. It’s not easy, but we want you to know that Campus Life continues to work hard to support all of you. Read More Positive COVID-19 case; Immediate steps to reduce community exposure Sat Mar 14 Dear Brown Community: We are writing with important information about COVID-19 and implications for the Brown campus community. Unfortunately, the situation around the country and at Brown is becoming more difficult each day. The University has learned that yesterday, for the first time, a member of our community tested positive for novel coronavirus. Brown students and employees who were in contact with the diagnosed individual have been notified directly by the Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH), which provides guidance on health considerations and quarantine. Read More Supporting your student's departure from campus Fri Mar 13 Dear Brown Parents and Families, As the impact of novel coronavirus continues to escalate, we know this is a tremendously challenging time for families - both for your students at Brown and for all of you as well. Our foremost concern is the health and well-being of our entire University community, and we continue to follow the guidance of medical experts on and beyond campus. Read More Letter to Undergraduates: Support for the remote learning transition Thu Mar 12 Dear Undergraduates, We know that the news that Brown is transitioning to remote learning raises many questions for students. The health and wellbeing of our students remains a top priority as Brown responds to this worldwide COVID-19 pandemic, and we understand that this period of transition to remote learning may be stressful. Read More Staff Spotlight: Kia McNeill Mon Mar 9 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter Read More Sean Thompson hired as Program Director for Orientation and First Year Experience Mon Mar 9 We are delighted to announce that Sean Thompson will be joining us on Monday, March 30 as the inaugural Program Director for Orientation and First Year Experience. Sean currently serves as the Director of New Student and Family Programs at University of Massachusetts Boston where he leads an orientation program for 2,400 new students and supervises a Program Assistant, Graduate Intern, and 27 orientation staff members. Read More David Cavallaro hired as Assistant Director for Residential Life Operations Mon Mar 9 I am happy to announce that David (Dave) Cavallaro will be joining the Office of Residential Life operations team Monday, March 9th as the Assistant Director of Administrative Operations. Dave will be responsible for housing processes relating to occupancy management; room selection/assignments; commencement and reunion housing; and occupancy management reporting. Read More BCSC Director Search Update #3 Fri Mar 6 We have two important updates on the progress of the search for the next Director of the Brown Center for Students of Color - one regarding the significant and meaningful feedback gathered from the listening sessions, and the other on the search timeline. Read More Staff Spotlight: Alana Sacks Mon Feb 24 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter Read More BCSC Director Search Update #2 Thu Feb 13 We are pleased to announce the full search committee for the BCSC Director search. We want to thank all those who helped nominate students and students who self-nominated through a range of access points. Because we received a significant number of strong nominations, our desire to be as representative as possible on a search committee with limited membership, and recently expressed desire for there to be alumni on the committee, we have decided to expand the committee slightly from 8 to 10 members. This enabled us to include three alumni with connections to the BCSC (two more recent graduates - one staff from the class of ’12, one student - now graduate student - from the class of ’19, and a staff member who was a graduate student here earning her Ph.D.). Read More Search Update: Associate University Chaplain for the Muslim Community Thu Feb 13 It with great pleasure and excitement that I write to share the good news that Imam Dr. Amir Toft accepted our invitation to join the Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life as Associate Chaplain for the Muslim community effective July 1, 2020. I am deeply indebted to everyone who assisted in the process and most especially to all of the members of the search committee for their extraordinary service and patience with a long but rewarding process. Read More Staff Spotlight: Jorge Vargas Fri Feb 7 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter Read More BCSC Director Search: Call for student nominations Wed Feb 5 The BCSC is an important resource for the Brown community especially students and thus we feel it is important for students to hold the majority constituency of the eight-member committee, with a compositional makeup of three undergraduate students and one graduate student. Read More BCSC Director Search Sat Feb 1 We are writing to share with you that we are beginning a new search for the next Director of the Brown Center for Students of Color (BCSC). The BCSC is an important resource for the community, especially students at Brown and beyond campus, and thus we feel it is important to inform various constituencies of the start of this search. We are pleased to share this news and look forward to working with you throughout the semester during this process. Read More Staff Spotlight: Jennifer Hunter Wed Jan 29 Read more about Campus Life staff featured in the Staff Spotlight section of the Campus Life weekly newsletter Read More These Students Are Bringing Transformative Justice to Their Campus Fri Jan 24 A first in the country and built from the ground up by students, Brown University’s Transformative Justice Program addresses harm on campus without relying on the punitive legal system. Read More Staff Spotlight: Dr. Jesús Remigio Tue Jan 14 Read More Winners of 2019 University Excellence Awards Mon Dec 16 Congratulations to all 2019 University Excellence Awards Recipients from Campus Life! View full list of winners from across the University Read More Avon native Kia McNeill is unanimous pick as Ivy League Coach of the Year Wed Nov 13 Avon High graduate Kia McNeill, the head coach of the Brown University women’s soccer team, was unanimously named the Ivy League Coach of the Year, the league announced Wednesday. McNeill earned Coach of the Year honors for the first time in her fourth year at Brown. McNeill led the Bears to its first Ivy League title since 1994. Her squad posted a program-record for wins in a season (14) and finished 14-1-2 overall with a 6-0-1 mark in league play. The Bears were ranked as high as No. 6 in the nation during the season. Read More Read More Brown to double number of U.S. military veterans enrolled as undergrads by 2024 Mon Nov 11 At Brown’s annual Veterans Day ceremony, President Christina H. Paxson announced plans for increased financial aid for student veterans, need-blind and test-optional admission policies and new partnerships to increase the number of veterans at Brown. Read More Read More Brown women headed to NCAA soccer tourney; 3 JWU teams heading to NCAAs, too Mon Nov 11 The Brown University women’s soccer team will host Monmouth University in the first round of the 2019 NCAA Division I championship on Saturday at 12:30 p.m. at Stevenson-Pincince Field. The Bears will make their seventh appearance all-time in the NCAA championship and first appearance since 1994. Brown earned a berth into the tournament after winning the Ivy League title for the first time since 1994. Read More Read More New Associate Vice President and Dean of Students Fri Apr 19 Koren Bakkegard will join the Division of Campus Life on August 1st as the Associate Vice President for Campus Life and Dean of Students. In her role she will oversee four important departments (Residential Life, Student Conduct and Community Standards, Student Support Services, and Stephen Robert ’62 Campus Center and Student Activities) for building community with students as well as many of the resources and processes that support students in need and crisis. Read More University to hire transformative justice program coordinator Thu Mar 14 At the Undergraduate Council of Students’ Wednesday general body meeting, Assistant Director for Community Dialogue and Campus Engagement Marc Peters spoke about the search for a program coordinator to develop and implement transformative justice models for conflict resolution. Read More Read More Here’s how Brown University is tackling toxic masculinity Tue Mar 12 "People should come in with sets of desires and use consent to rectify the gap between those," a student at Brown said. Read More Read More University updates website for students in distress Fri Feb 22 A revised version of the University’s “Helping a Student in Distress” website launched earlier this month, which aims to be more accessible for students experiencing mental health issues and peers hoping to help them, according to an announcement from the Office of the Vice President for Campus Life. Read More Read More Campaign giving to support Brown Athletics surpasses $100 million Thu Jan 31 With investments in coaching staff, facilities, recruiting and more, the BrownTogether campaign is significantly advancing the University’s goal of amplifying the scholar-athlete experience. Read More. Read More Brown plans new center, residence hall to integrate health and wellness programs Thu Dec 20 With generous support from the family of Duncan MacMillan and from Barry Sternlicht and Mimi Reichert Sternlicht, and with architect selection underway, the University’s vision for an integrated, state-of-the-art health and wellness center and residence hall is on a path toward realization. Read More. Read More #MeToo Is Making Colleges Teach Toxic Masculinity 101 Thu Sep 27 Garrett Robinson is a senior at Brown University, and a running back for the Brown Bears. Late last month, he co-led a mandatory training for freshman players, but it wasn’t about their skills on the football field. Read more. Read More Jennifer Hunter to lead diversity and inclusion efforts within Brown Athletics Fri Aug 17 Hunter, the University’s first associate director of athletics for diversity and inclusion initiatives, will develop and implement programs focused on Brown athletics and student-athletes. Read More Read More Brown Athletic Director Jack Hayes to Chair NCAA Division I Men’s Lacrosse Committee Wed Aug 15 INDIANAPOLIS--- Brown Director of Athletics Jack Hayes has been named chair of the Division I Men's Lacrosse Committee for the 2018-19 season. Read More Read More Brown’s student-staffed EMS team celebrates 40 years Tue May 8 Brown Emergency Medical Services launched as a student club in 1978 — 40 years later, it is a full-fledged, 24-7 emergency medical response service with student volunteers still comprising its core. Read More Read More University hires new assistant VP for campus life Tue Apr 3 Last month, Nicole Truesdell began her tenure as the new assistant vice president for campus life. In this role, Truesdell will provide “leadership and strategic planning for the division of campus life” in addition to implementing initiatives that ensure “the division and (the) University are attune to and responsive to the diversity of Brown’s student population,” Eric Estes, vice president for campus life, wrote in an e-mail to The Herald. Read More Read More CAPS launches new Wellness Life Hacks workshops Sun Jan 28 Four-part series addresses issues affecting Brown students’ mental health, encourages mindfulness. Counseling and Psychological Services will offer four new workshops through their new project, called Wellness Life Hacks this semester. The program — which will begin on Jan. 30 and end on May 1 — is open to all students and covers a variety of issues affecting students at Brown, such as sleep deprivation and burnout prevention. Read More. Read More Interfaith dinner brings religious dialogue to campus Thu Dec 7 Dinner hosted by Office of the Chaplains fosters inter-faith conversations among students. Interfaith dinners hosted by the Office of the Chaplains play a part in this. Tuesday night, several religious groups on campus got together for interfaith dinner on the fourth floor of J. Walter Wilson to discuss social justice, their religious lives and where they intersect. While this was only the second interfaith dinner of the semester, Rabbi Michelle Dardashti hopes it will lead to the “resurrection of an interfaith council.” Read More. Read More U. increases support, resources for student veterans Sun Nov 12 Veterans part of RUE program grapple with finding community on campus. Every time Tristan Hood ’18 or Joel Fudge ’21 go out to eat, they make sure to find seats facing the door. “It’s an awareness thing,” Hood said. Hood and Fudge are two of the 18 undergraduate student veterans at Brown, and they move through campus more attentively than most. Fudge also said he has also had to adjust to the University’s timeliness — or lack thereof. “One of the harder things for me is that nothing is on time,” Fudge said. “In the military, you are not late. You are 15 minutes early, and you are five minutes early to your 15 minutes early.” Read More. Read More Dr. Vanessa M. Britto to lead health and wellness services for Brown Thu Oct 12 As assistant vice president and executive director of health and wellness, Brown-trained physician and master’s alumna, and longtime Wellesley College health services director will oversee all medical and mental health services for students. Read More Read More CAPS introduces new policies to improve care Tue Sep 26 Initiatives address student concerns, restructure department leadership, highlight staff diversity. During shopping period this semester, for the first time, Counseling and Psychological Services allowed students to meet with therapists without scheduling an appointment beforehand, said Will Meek, director of CAPS. The availability for walk-in appointments during shopping period is just one of a series of new initiatives and policies intended to improve the quality of mental healthcare on campus. Read More. Read More Reyes ’12 begins tenure as inaugural FLi Center director Tue Sep 19 Selected from a national pool of applicants by students and administrators in April, Julio Reyes ’12 began his work as the inaugural program director of the First-Generation College and Low-Income Student Center June 15. In his role as program director, Reyes has been tasked with developing a strategic plan for the center that will support both undocumented students — including individuals enrolled in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program — and students from first-generation or low-income backgrounds, The Herald previously reported. Read More Read More Brown’s leaders reaffirm pledge to support and defend DACA, undocumented students Tue Sep 5 In the wake of the Trump administration’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, Brown’s president, provost and campus life vice president commit to doing everything legally possible to protect students, faculty and staff. Learn More Read More News & Events Campus Life in the News Campus Life Newsletter Wellness Residential Experience at Sternlicht Commons Division of Campus Life Division of Campus Life Brown University Box 1896 20 Benevolent Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1800 Email [email protected] Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top