Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Emeriti of California State University, Fullerton Main Navigation ABOUT ENDOWMENT EMERITOPICS PRERETIREMENT TRIBUTES President's Letter Summary Links Contact Us Emeriti News Campus News In Memoriam Bylaws Emeriti Center Welcome Who We Are The Emeriti of California State University, Fullerton, is a formal association of all persons awarded emeritus status by the president of CSUF. Additionally, the spouses of deceased emeriti participate as associate members. The Emeriti, as an association, exists to promote the welfare of California State University, Fullerton; to enhance the continuing professionalism of the emeriti; and to provide for the fellowship of the members. What We Do Picture of the sculpture IN'DIRECTION. The sculpture IN'DIRECTION by Jason Chakravarty and Derek Parker at the Arts Drive entrance to campus was funded in part by the Emeriti. Meet regularly during the academic year. In recent years the CSUF President has hosted an annual luncheon with the Emeriti to bring us up-to-date on the state of the University and to honor students who have received Emeriti or Benson Scholarships. Assist, as volunteers, in special projects for the Emeriti and for the University, e.g., aiding the "It's Our University " contribution program, and in partnership with the Patrons of the Library, we help to staff the Book Sale Center. Schedule a spring outing or other event at a Southern California site of interest. In recent years the group has visited the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County, the Huntington Library and Gardens, the Buddhist Temple in Hacienda Heights, the Sherman Gardens in Corona Del Mar, the Bowers Museum of Cultural Arts in Santa Ana, the J. Paul Getty Museum, the Pacific Aquarium, the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and the Skirball Center. Maintain three endowment funds, two for student scholarships and the other to support the Library collections. In addition, we provide annual financial support to the Guardian Scholars Program . Maintain the Book of Tributes honoring deceased members of the Emeriti. Maintain an email list to keep members informed of Emeriti events and other news of interest to members. Publish annually a Directory of all emeriti distributed to members of the association. Starting in 2018 the Directory has been published as a pdf document, which is available to all emeritus faculty and staff on the university portal. The Emeriti Association at CSUF also is affiliated with the California State University Emeritus and Retired Faculty & Staff Association, the statewide organization that represents the interests of all emeritus and retired faculty and staff members from the California State University system. Picture of the sculpture IN'DIRECTION. The sculpture IN'DIRECTION by Jason Chakravarty and Derek Parker at the Arts Drive entrance to campus was funded in part by the Emeriti. This site is maintained by CSUF Emeriti. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact mshapiro@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.