Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Mayborn Museum Menu Visit Museum Store Calendar Theater Groups Reach Out Refund and Ticketing Policy Birthday Parties Coronavirus Information Events Mayborn At Home Education & Programs Educational Resources Design Den TEEN TAKEOVER Membership & Support Join or Renew Membership Volunteer Donate Exhibits Natural and Cultural History Exhibits Historic Village Jeanes Discovery Center Special Exhibits Collection & Research Cultural Collections Biosciences Geosciences Ask the Collections Staff Bryce C. Brown Research Fellowship RESEARCH About History Mission & Vision Statements and Strategic Plan Museum Studies Department Contact DEAI Initiatives (PDF) REIGNITING CURIOUSITY Board of Advocates Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Homepage About Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Membership Lifelong Learning Courses Lifelong Learning Events Lifelong Learning Volunteers How to Register for Courses Tickets Advance Tickets ac_unit The Mayborn Museum will remain closed through February 20 and 21 to assist with city-wide water conservation efforts and to further assess the impact of the severe weather on the museum. The Harry and Anna Jeanes Discovery Center sustained some damage due to frozen pipes. The museum’s collection and Natural Science and Cultural History wing have not been harmed. Update 02/19/2021 @ 4:30pm insert_emoticon Face coverings are strongly encouraged. Update 9/1/2021 label_important Read about the Mayborn Museum’s Commitments to Diversity, Equity, Access and Inclusion. confirmation_number Buy Tickets Online! favorite Support the Mayborn BUY TICKETS Adults: $10.00 Children (2 -12 yrs): $8.00 Seniors (65+): $9.00 HOURS Open Today10:00am–5:00pm Mon. - Wed.: 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Thursday: 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Fri. - Sat.: 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Sunday: 1 p.m. - 5 p.m. LOCATION 1300 S. University Parks Waco, TX 76706 MEMBERSHIP Individual $40 Duo $75 Family $95 Grandparents $85 Family Plus $135 Upcoming Events May 31 2022 Tinker Tuesday Jun 6 2022 Super Hero Storytime | John Morris Jun 7 2022 Tinker Tuesday Jun 8 2022 Village Wednesday More Events Traveling Exhibit May 27 – September 3, 2017 Developed by Scitech in Perth, Australia and produced by Imagine Exhibitions, SPEED: Science in Motion, replicates the high-octane action of the Formula 1 racetrack, complete with pit lane, workshop and physical testing environments on display May 27 through September 3, 2017. Learn More Great! You're all signed up. Stay tuned for updates. Subscribe to the Mayborn Museum Newsletter Learn about all of the fun activities and events each month at the Mayborn Museum. Email Address Sign Up By submitting this form, you are granting: Baylor University's Mayborn Museum Complex, 1300 S. University Parks Dr., Waco, Texas, 76706, United States, https://www.baylor.edu/mayborn/ permission to email you. You may unsubscribe via the link found at the bottom of every email. (See our Email Privacy Policy for details.) Emails are serviced by Constant Contact. Permanent Exhibits Explore Waco at the Crossroads The Mayborn Museum Complex features a natural science and cultural history museum focusing on Central Texas with walk-in dioramas including one on the Waco Mammoth Site, and exploration stations for geology, paleontology, archaeology, and natural history. In addition to the natural history exhibits, there are two floors of themed discovery rooms which encourage hands-on learning for all ages and a historic village located on the banks of the Brazos River. Natural and Cultural History Exhibits Sure to be a hit for all visitors are the Waco at the Crossroads of Texas Natural History Exhibits. Governor Bill and Vara Daniel Historic Village The 9 wood frame buildings that make up the Gov. Bill and Vara Daniel Historic Village continue the crossroads of Texas theme outdoors. Backyard Ecology Inspired by Central Texas stories, Baylor research, and natural phenomena, this exciting collection of hands-on experiences will encourage individual discovery and an appreciation for the natural world. Engage. Explore. Enjoy. How you can support the Mayborn Your generous support is critical for the Mayborn Museum to accomplish its mission to encourage diverse audiences to explore their surroundings and discover their connection to the broader world. Your giving spirit results in additional facilities and exhibit upgrades, and enhances educational resources and services. Become a Member Volunteer Donate Connect with Us Proud Affiliates of Admission Hours Location Membership Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Mayborn Museum Twitter Facebook Mayborn Museum One Bear Place #97154 Waco, TX 76798-7154 254.710.1110 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Visit Museum Store Calendar Theater Groups Reach Out Museums for All Refund and Ticketing Policy Birthday Parties Book a Party Party Information Birthday Party FAQs Coronavirus Information Events Mayborn At Home Museum Store STEM Kits Animal Crossing Museum Gallery Meet the Mayborn Education & Programs Educational Resources Design Den TEEN TAKEOVER Membership & Support Join or Renew Membership Membership Information Supporting Memberships Purchase a Membership Volunteer Teen Volunteers Donate Donate an Artifact Exhibits Natural and Cultural History Exhibits Historic Village Jeanes Discovery Center Play Waco Special Exhibits DC Super Heroes: Discover Your Superpowers Collection & Research Cultural Collections Archaeology Ethnology History Baylor History Structures Furnishings Personal Artifacts Scientific Artifacts Transportation Artifacts Communication Artifacts Tools Recreational Artifacts Blanche M. Largent's Children Glass Collection Biosciences Mammals Birds Amphibians Freshwater Fish Botany Invertebrates Reptiles Geosciences Paleontology Rocks and Minerals Waco Mammoth National Park Repository Ask the Collections Staff Ask Collection Staff a Question Bryce C. Brown Research Fellowship RESEARCH About History Mission & Vision Statements and Strategic Plan Museum Studies Department Contact Make a Suggestion DEAI Initiatives (PDF) REIGNITING CURIOUSITY LETTER FROM THE DIRECTOR PHASED DEVELOPMENT PLAN FIND OUT HOW YOU CAN BE A PART FUTURE MAMMOTH SCULPTURE Board of Advocates Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Homepage About Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Membership Lifelong Learning Courses Lifelong Learning Events Lifelong Learning Volunteers How to Register for Courses Tickets Advance Tickets