Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Beyond Unprecedented: The Post-Pandemic Economy—Season 2 News From Columbia Law Story Archive Beyond Unprecedented: The Post-Pandemic Economy—Season 2 From Columbia Law School and the Millstein Center, the popular podcast returns for a second season to examine the pandemic’s lingering economic effects on workers, investors, and corporations. Co-hosts Professor Eric Talley and Research Fellow Kate Waldock ’23 are joined by experts who have a knack for explaining the complex economic phenomena unfolding in a world changed by COVID-19. All episodes now available. Listen to the latest episode: Find all recent episodes below, and subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts Related Links Subscribe on Apple Podcasts Subscribe on Spotify Columbia Law Podcasts Published November 11, 2021 Share Category Research and Scholarship Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Topics Beyond Unprecedented Podcast Eric Talley Kate Waldock Reintroducing ‘Beyond Unprecedented’ As we head into the third calendar year of the pandemic, the unprecedented has led to the unpredictable. The co-hosts kick off the season with NPR’s Stacey Vanek Smith to discuss what constitutes the new normal in the current economy. Listen and Learn More Episode 1: You Can’t Hire Me, I Quit Do Americans want to go back to work? And on what terms? Professor Kate Andrias joins our co-hosts to talk about labor shortages, strikes, and the future of work. Listen and Learn More Episode 2: Meme Stock Mania With a stock trading app on their phones and a lot of time on their hands, individual investors flooded into the market during the pandemic. Professor Joshua Mitts discusses what it means for market regulation. Listen and Learn More Episode 3: The Rise—and Results—of Shareholder Activism The pandemic has unfolded alongside two other crises: climate change and racial justice. As shareholder activists try to force corporations to act, Vanguard General Counsel Anne E. Robinson ’94 talks about the priorities of institutional investors when ESG questions are put to a vote. Listen and Learn More Episode 4: Nothing Ventured, Nothing Gained The high-risk, high-reward venture capital industry is also highly white and highly male. Professor Talia Gillis and Act One Ventures co-founder Alejandro Guerrero discuss how to build racial and gender equity into V.C. deals. Listen and Learn More About the Hosts Eric Talley, Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law, writes and researches at the intersection of corporate law, governance, and finance. As a co-director of the Ira M. Millstein Center for Global Markets and Corporate Ownership, Talley shapes research and programs focused on the future of corporate governance and performance. Talley is a frequent commentator in the national media, and he speaks regularly to corporate boards and regulators on issues pertaining to fiduciary duties, governance, and finance. He is a graduate of the University of California, San Diego, and he earned a J.D. and a Ph.D. in economics from Stanford University. Talley also hosted the first season of Beyond Unprecedented. Kate Waldock ’23 is a research fellow at the Ira M. Millstein Center for Global Markets and Corporate Ownership and is the first student to take part in the Academic Scholars Program at Columbia Law School, where she is pursuing a J.D. She was previously an assistant professor of finance at the Georgetown University McDonough School of Business. From 2017 to 2020, Waldock served as the co-host, with Luigi Zingales, of the economics podcast Capitalisn’t. On the last season of Beyond Unprecedented, she was a featured guest on the episode “A New Chapter for Bankruptcy?” Waldock’s research interests include bankruptcy, corporations, and banking. Waldock has a B.A. in economics from Harvard University and a Ph.D. in finance from New York University. About the Series Beyond Unprecedented is brought to you by Columbia Law School and the Ira M. Millstein Center for Global Markets and Corporate Ownership and is produced by the Office of Communications, Marketing, and Public Affairs at Columbia Law School. The first season was recognized as a 2021 Webby Awards honoree by the International Academy of Digital Arts & Sciences. Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Research and Scholarship News Beyond “Unprecedented”: The Post-Pandemic Economy In Columbia Law School’s new podcast, hosted by Professor Eric Talley, hear from leading experts as they chart a course for economic recovery in the wake of the pandemic and suggest new ways of approaching law, policy, and governance. Research and Scholarship News Beyond Unprecedented: Nothing Ventured, Nothing Gained Research and Scholarship News Beyond Unprecedented: The Rise—and Results—of Shareholder Activism News Beyond Unprecedented: Meme Stock Mania Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.