Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events 2022 Betty Marcus Women’s Health Endowment Awards April 14, 2022 Each year Bess Marcus, professor of behavioral and social sciences, presents the Betty Marcus Women's Health Endowment Fund Awards as part of National Public Health Week. The awards, created to honor the legacy of Professor Marcus' mother Betty, are presented to health care providers affiliated with the Miriam Hospital who epitomize excellence in community service, research, and/or clinical service for women. In a virtual ceremony held on Monday April 4, hosted by Professor Marcus and attended by colleagues, prior awardees, and family members, including Betty Marcus’ grandchildren, the 2022 Betty Marcus Awards were presented to Elissa Jelalian and Dr. Christine Duffy. Congratulations to both outstanding health care providers whose achievements have helped to improve the lives of women, along with the quality of women’s healthcare in our state. Elissa Jelalian Ph.D. Elissa Jelalian is professor of psychiatry and human behavior and of pediatrics at Brown and associate director of the Weight Control and Diabetes Research Center at The Miriam Hospital. Her research focuses on weight regulation and the development of innovative behavioral interventions for children and adolescents with overweight and obesity. Her current funded studies focus on dissemination of evidence-based pediatric weight control interventions to community settings, testing novel interventions for adolescents with obesity, and identifying early markers of obesity risk in young children. Christine M. Duffy MD, MPH Director of the Adult Cancer Survivorship Program at the Lifespan Cancer Institute and medical director of The Miriam Hospital Primary Care Clinic, Dr. Duffy practices at Rhode Island and The Miriam hospitals, and at Brown Medicine. She is also an associate professor of medicine at The Warren Alpert Medical School and holds an MPH from Brown. Dr. Duffy’s clinical and research interests include the reproductive health of young women with breast cancer and the primary care of cancer survivors. Her work on these subjects has been published in peer-reviewed journals, book chapters, and abstracts. Recent news: May 23, 2022 Laura Keohane Ph.D. ’16 Named 2022 Alumni Impact Awardee May 12, 2022 At the Brown School of Public Health: Dynamic Change to Expand Impact May 4, 2022 Congratulations to the Winners of the 2022 Dean’s Staff Awards April 25, 2022 Postpartum insurance loss decreased during COVID-19 pandemic, study finds April 14, 2022 2022 Betty Marcus Women’s Health Endowment Awards April 13, 2022 For young adults, mindfulness habits for life and the promise of better mental, physical health April 12, 2022 Celebrating the 2022 Dean's Awards for Faculty Excellence April 7, 2022 Communicating for impact: Public health students get comfortable talking about why their work matters School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top