Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Main Campus and Philadelphia You are here Home Life at Temple Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Philadelphia enriches the student experience here at Temple. Since many of our campuses, including Main Campus, are located in the city, it’s important for our students to educate themselves on what it means to live here by staying informed. Discovering resources in the area and getting to know the surrounding communities can help students adjust, learn and navigate the ins and outs of going to Temple and living in Philadelphia. Contents Living in PhiladelphiaCampus Safety Getting AroundEmergency PreparednessCampus Safety Trainings Living in Philadelphia As a member of the Temple and North Philadelphia community, the university provides resources and support to help you acclimate to the neighborhood. One of the best resources are the residents who call North Philadelphia home. They know it better than anyone and provide suggestions on how to be a good neighbor. Meet Our Neighbors Students can also find additional resources, support and videos on how to navigate city living. From apartment, bike and car safety to risk awareness and community living, our resources guide students on how to stay safe while getting the most out of living in Philadelphia. Explore Campus Safety Videos Campus safety videos See videos about Temple Police, property protection and tips on how to stay safe on campus. Explore Campus Safety Videos Campus safety videos Campus Safety Police Operations The safety of our students and staff is a top priority. To protect the university community, Temple Police, our police force, monitors Main Campus. Our team of sworn officers have received state-mandated training at an accredited police academy. Students can find our officers on bikes, on foot and in vehicles every day. View the university’s Main Campus patrol map to see the police patrol area and the locations of our police stations. Security Operations Security officers, working in collaboration with Temple Police, provide an additional protective presence on campus. Our security division includes Temple security officers as well as security officers from a contracted security company. They coordinate personal safety and property protection in university buildings, including Temple-sponsored residence halls and locations throughout the community. Security also provides directions, responds to alerts and assists in loss prevention. Task Force on Violence Reduction Strategies In January 2022, President Wingard announced the establishment of the Task Force on Violence Reduction Strategies. The task force will keep key constituents, including parents and North Philadelphia residents, engaged in enhancing safety. The task force is one of many efforts designed to help elevate Temple’s anti-violence research and programs and to devise new solutions to help address Philadelphia’s gun violence epidemic. Security and Fire Safety Temple University’s Annual Security and Fire Safety Report contains statistics, policies and procedures related to campus safety. You may request a copy of the report by calling Temple University’s Campus Safety Services at 215-204-7900. Learn more about our campus safety services Campus Safety Services Learn more about the safety services on Temple’s campus. Learn more about our campus safety services Campus Safety Services Learn more about staying safe at Temple Staying Safe Discover tips about how to stay safe at Temple. Learn more about staying safe at Temple Staying Safe Getting Around As a student at Temple, you get to live on campus and take advantage of the opportunities offered in Philadelphia. Whether you’re walking to your home after a night class or taking the Broad Street Line back to campus, there are services and resources available to you to ensure you get home safely. SEPTA Students can easily access the city through SEPTA, Philadelphia’s public transportation system. Several public buses, a subway and a regional rail line are all accessible to and from Main Campus. SEPTA is committed to providing a safe riding experience and environment for Temple students, members of the North Philadelphia community and beyond. As part of their effort to keep our community safe, SEPTA has environmental, health and safety professionals, and other authority employees on duty 24 hours a day, seven days a week to keep a watchful eye over the entire system. They have a team of SEPTA police officers who you may see in your station or even on your train—providing further security and protection for riders. SEPTA also has resources and tips to make your ride as safe as possible—including staying alert while waiting for your train, on-board behavior and emergency situation responses. Explore SEPTA resources below. SEPTA Safety Tips Security Awareness Make the Safe Choice FLIGHT Shuttle Service Those who are looking for transportation on or around campus at night are encouraged to use FLIGHT, Temple’s free, on-demand evening shuttle service. Any student, faculty or staff member with a valid OWLcard (the Temple University identification card) can use FLIGHT. FLIGHT pickup/drop-off locations FLIGHT trips must begin or end at a residential address in the service area, and go to or from a residence or from the following Main Campus pickup/drop-off locations. Bus shelter between Paley Hall and the TECH Center IBC Student Recreation building Johnson and Hardwick Residence Halls Morgan Hall SEPTA Regional Rail station Howard Gittis Student Center Tyler School of Art and Architecture Requesting a ride To request a ride with FLIGHT, you need to download the TapRide app on your smartphone and select Temple University, log in with your AccessNet username and password, and select your location and where you want to go. Once you request a ride, the app will automatically assign a shuttle and send you a message with an estimated time of arrival. You can then track your shuttle’s progress on the map and wait at your location until your shuttle arrives. You can schedule a ride in advance or call for a ride during FLIGHT’s operating hours. The service will operate seven days per week through the fall and spring semesters continuing during the fall, winter and spring breaks, except for Christmas Eve and Christmas Day (Dec. 24–25), and New Year’s Eve and New Year’s Day (Dec. 31–Jan. 1). For those days, we will operate the TECH Express. TECH Express To enhance student services during peak ridership times, FLIGHT works with the TECH Express service, which takes students from the 12th Street bus shelter, across from the TECH Center (between Polett Walk and Montgomery Avenue), to their residences on or off campus within the FLIGHT service area. Students do not need to make a reservation for the TECH Express, which operates from 5:30 to 11:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, during the academic year. Each student must present a valid OWLcard when boarding. Learn More About FLIGHT Other Campus Shuttle Services In addition to FLIGHT, Temple offers additional shuttle services between Main Campus, Health Sciences Center and Ambler Campus. This shuttle service is intended to provide safe and reliable transportation for students, faculty and staff traveling between campuses. This service is available Monday to Friday during the fall and spring semesters. There is no service during the winter break and spring break periods or during the summer. Each person must present a valid Temple ID when boarding. View the intercampus bus schedule for the 2021–2022 academic year. There is also a bus that connects Temple’s Ambler and Fort Washington campuses with the Ambler SEPTA Regional Rail station. It operates Monday to Friday and serves as another means to access Main Campus and Center City. View the Ambler shuttle and regional rail schedule. Parking on Campus Temple’s campuses have several garages and parking lots available for students who have cars on campus. Our garages and lots are equipped with security cameras and personnel to ensure safety. See where you can find safe parking on our campuses. Walking Escorts Temple’s security services offer a walking escort service for students who are on campus in the evening or early morning hours. Security bike officers are available daily from 4 p.m. to 6 a.m. to accompany you to your desired location safely while maintaining communication with Temple Police. Temple students, faculty and staff can call the numbers below to request an escort. From a campus phone: 8-WALK (8-9255) From a cell phone: 215-777-9255 Campus Safety by Design Temple cultivates safety on our campus and in our community by strategically evaluating the design of our campus and incorporating prevention initiatives to avoid potential safety hazards, including a campuswide camera system, code blue emergency phones placed throughout the campus, high-intensity lighting on walkways, landscaping shrubbery to reduce hidden spaces, and various locations to obtain assistance or file a report. Learn More Safety Resources Learn more about law enforcement and university resources available to keep you safe while at Temple. Learn More Safety Resources Campus Safety Station Locations Main Campus Administration: 1101 W. Montgomery Ave. Headquarters: 1801 N. 11th St. Center Station: Beasley and Polett Walks Mini Station: 1600 N. Park Ave. Public Safety Office: 1513 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Health Sciences Center Parkinson Pavilion: Broad and Tioga streets (view the Health Sciences Center map) Ambler Campus Cottage Hall (view the Ambler Campus map) Emergency Preparedness Emergency situations can arise at any time. Temple has a comprehensive plan in place for organizing, coordinating and directing available resources toward the management of an emergency. Learn more about Temple’s emergency planning division. TUready Learn more about emergency preparedness and handling critical incidents or disasters. TUalert Sign up to receive TUalerts, Temple’s system that quickly communicates potential risks to the community. Emergency Procedures Become familiar with the primary procedures to follow in an emergency: evacuation, lockdown and shelter-in-place. TUready TUalert Emergency Procedures Campus Safety Trainings Temple offers different types of training to help prepare students, faculty and staff for unexpected events. TUready Training This training explores emergency procedures and provides ways to be better prepared in a crisis. Learn more about this opportunity. Psychological First Aid Psychological First Aid is offered to help people cope with crises and their impacts. Learn more about this opportunity. Active Assailant Training This training helps prepare people for an emergency involving an active assailant or shooter. Learn more about this opportunity. Contact Us Find phone numbers for the Temple University Police and Temple University Emergency Medical Services as well as our walking escort program. Visit the Contact Page Go back to Life at TempleMore in Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.