By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Opportunities & Support In this Section Summer Programs Honors Program Fellowship & Scholarship Advising Air Force & Army ROTC FAQ Academic Opportunities and Support See why nearly half of Syracuse students study abroad. Learn how the Honors program can enrich your studies with special seminars, cultural events and close faculty mentorship. And discover the many programs, offices and staff ready to help you flourish. Explore this page for more details. Study Abroad Link The Syracuse University classroom spans the globe. Choose from over 100 different Syracuse Abroad programs within 60 countries. Learning Centers Link With learning centers in NYC, LA, and D.C., you have the opportunity to immerse yourself in real-world environments and learn from industry leaders, while working toward your degree. Research Link Ranked as a top-tier research university, Syracuse is invested in your search for innovation. Work alongside some of the world's finest scholars while completing research that spans a full range of disciplines. Honors Program Link With challenge comes reward. As a member of the Renée Crown University Honors Program, you'll maximize your education and distinguish yourself academically and professionally. Air Force and Army ROTC Link Syracuse University's ROTC program gives you a jump on your future by earning an officer’s commission and a college degree at the same time. Entrepreneurship Link At the Falcone Center for Entrepreneurship, you'll be provided with the resources and mindset needed for pursuing new ventures and putting your classroom knowledge to work. Living Learning Communities Link Connect with students who share your passions by participating in a learning community or theme housing. You'll live and take classes with peers who share a common academic major or interest, allowing for a collaborative learning environment. Summer Programs Link No matter what kind of student you are—full time, part-time, visiting from another college, a high school student, or not officially a student at all—there’s something for everyone during Summer at Syracuse. Winterlude Online Link Syracuse Winterlude Online gives you an opportunity to earn credits between semesters. Take an online class during the semester break in December and January, from wherever you are! Support Resources Whether it’s a study clinic or getting help with an upcoming assignment, there are plenty of resources available at Syracuse University to help you succeed in the classroom all around campus. Center for Learning and Student Success The Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) provides and facilitates academic support services, including one-on-one tutoring, small-group tutoring and workshops, academic integrity education and training. Fellowship and Scholarship Advising The Center for Fellowship and Scholarship Advising helps undergraduates, graduate students, and alumni identify national fellowship and scholarship opportunities and assists in every phase of the application process. Future Professoriate Program Qualified graduate students in participating departments are eligible to join this award-winning program, ranked among the premier models for Teaching Assistant training in the U.S. The Future Professoriate Program provides you with the experience, confidence and documented performance you need to excel as faculty in higher education. Information Technology Services ITS provides services, training, applications and infrastructure to support your technology needs as a student, teacher, and researcher. Subject-Area Librarians The Syracuse Libraries are staffed with specialists knowledgeable in the most useful library tools and holdings for your field of study. The Graduate Editing Center The GEC provides free editing and proofreading services from your lengthy graduate research to brief subject papers. The Office of Disability Services The Office of Disability Services will arrange for the provision of auxiliary aids, assistive technology, and reasonable accommodations for all qualified students with documented disabilities. The Writing Center You will have many writing assignments during your time at Syracuse University. Writing Center consultants can help you improve at any stage of the writing process. Frequently Asked Questions Link Do you have an honors program? Can I take part in research as an undergraduate? What kind of opportunities are there? What is the faculty-to-student ratio? How big are the classes? May I start school early? Can I complete more than one major at Syracuse? More frequently asked questions Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy