Skip to site alert. Skip to content Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center (HICCC) - New York Refer a Patient Giving Locations Contact Make an Appointment Search About Us About Us Message from the Director Mission, Vision, and Guiding Principles About the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center The Irving Family Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion (DEI) Leadership Our Members Giving News Our 50th Anniversary Upcoming Programs and Events Contact Us HICCC Annual Report Explore the past year of cancer research and care at the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Read the Report For Patients For Patients Find a Doctor Make an Appointment Locations What to Expect Get a Second Opinion Patient Stories Refer a Patient Keeping You Safe Video Visits Make an Appointment Our dedicated access representatives can help you make an appointment today. Make an Appointment Cancer Types and Care Cancer Types and Care Cancer Types Cancer Care Clinical Trials Cancer Types Amyloidosis Anal Cancer Bladder Cancer Brain and Spinal Tumors Breast Cancer Cervical Cancer Childhood and Adolescent Cancers Colon and Rectal Cancer Esophageal Cancer Gestational Trophoblastic Disease Head and Neck/Oral Cancers Kidney Cancer/Adrenal Cancer Leukemia Liver Cancer Lung Cancer Lymphoma Melanoma Multiple Myeloma Myelodysplastic Syndrome Ovarian Cancer Pancreatic Cancer Prostate Cancer Rare Blood Disorders Sarcoma Stomach Cancer Testicular Cancer Thyroid Cancer Uterine Cancer Vaginal Cancer Vulvar Cancer Screening and Outreach Screening and Outreach Screening and Risk Reduction Community Outreach and Engagement Screening and Risk Reduction How to Reduce the Risk of Cancer Reducing Second Cancer Risk Screening for Cancer Genetic Testing and Cancer Educational Resources Community Outreach and Engagement We work with our communities and patients to remove access barriers to cancer prevention, screening, treatment and survivorship services. Learn About Our Efforts Research Research Programs Laboratories Membership Shared Resources For Researchers Programs Cancer Genomics and Epigenomics Cancer Population Science Precision Oncology and Systems Biology Tumor Biology and Microenvironment Research Laboratories Learn about the research being pursued by members of the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Explore Our Research Education Education Continuing Medical Education (CME) Educational Seminar Series Trainee Associate Member Program Cancer Research Training and Education Coordination Core (CRTEC) Educational Opportunities Division of Hematology/Oncology Department of Radiation Oncology Training at HICCC We're dedicated to developing the next generation of researchers and physicians through cross-disciplinary training and fellowship programs Simon K. Cheng, MD Specialties: Radiation OncologyMore specialties Accepting New Patients Virtual Visits/Telehealth Profile Navigation Overview Schedule an Appointment Location(s) Insurance Accepted Credentials & Experience Research Overview Simon K. Cheng M.D., Ph.D. is the Residency Program Director and Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology at New York-Presbyterian/Columbia University Irving Medical Center. He is recognized nationally in thoracic oncology and brain tumors and his research group is dedicated to developing innovative strategies to make treatment more effective and improve patient care. Dr. Cheng’s clinical expertise in radiation therapy has been recognized by his peers, acknowledged as Super Doctors New York Rising Stars (2015-2017) and Castle Connolly New York Metro Area and Regional Top Doctor (2017-2019). He was inducted into the Academy of Clinical Excellence at the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons in 2019. He is a national and international invited speaker on lung cancer and stereotactic radiation therapy, including the prestigious opening plenary lecture at the 2007 national American Society of Radiation Therapy (ASTRO) meeting. Dr. Cheng’s research endeavors focus on enhancing the effectiveness of radiation therapy and immunotherapy using innovative translational and big data platforms. He has been awarded the 2010 American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Cancer Foundation Young Investigator Award and the 2010 Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) Research Seed Grant. Dr. Cheng was a Louis V. Gerstner Jr., Scholar from 2012-2015. His research work in lung cancer been recognized with 2013 LUNGevity Foundation Targeted Therapeutics Award and the 2019 American Lung Association Lung Cancer Discovery Award, Dr. Cheng received his B.S. from Cornell University, Ithaca, NY and completed his M.D. and Ph.D. degrees from New York University in 2005. He then completed in 2010 his residency program from New York University, where he was the recipient of the Holman Research Pathway and Chief Resident. Dr. Cheng joined the faculty of Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons in 2010. As the Residency Program Director at New York-Presbyterian/Columbia University Medical Center, Dr. Cheng is dedicated to medical education and mentoring scientists, medical and nursing students, and residents. He was awarded ARRO Educator of the Year Award in 2016 and was inducted into the Apgar Academy of Medical Educators in 2016. Areas of Expertise / Conditions Treated Brain Tumor Esophageal Cancer Lung Cancer Spinal Tumors Academic Appointments Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology at CUMC Hospital Affiliations NewYork-Presbyterian / Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital NewYork-Presbyterian Lawrence Hospital NewYork-Presbyterian Hudson Valley Hospital Gender Male Schedule an Appointment Virtual Visits/Telehealth Virtual Visits allow you to connect with your provider from the comfort, convenience, and safety of your own home. Schedule Virtual Visit Phone Appointments New and Existing Patients: (212) 305-5050 Connect Patient Portal For existing patients, login to make an appointment, view documentation or contact your care provider. Connect Sign In Location(s) CUIMC/Presbyterian Hospital and Vanderbilt Clinic 622 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 Primary Phone: (212) 305-5050 Open location in Google Maps Insurance Accepted Aetna Aetna Signature Administrators EPO HMO Medicare Managed Care NYP Employee Plan NY Signature POS PPO Student Health Affinity Health Plan Essential Plan Medicaid Managed Care AgeWell Medicare Managed Care Special Needs Amida Care Special Needs Cigna EPO Great West (National) HMO POS PPO Emblem/GHI Medicare Managed Care PPO Emblem/HIP ConnectiCare EPO Essential Plan HMO Medicaid Managed Care Medicare Managed Care POS PPO Select Care (Exchange) Vytra Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield EPO HMO Medicare Managed Care PPO Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield HealthPlus Child/Family Health Plus Essential Plan Medicaid Managed Care Fidelis Care Child/Family Health Plus Essential Plan Medicaid Managed Care Medicare Managed Care Healthfirst Child/Family Health Plus Leaf (Exchange) Medicaid Managed Care Medicare Managed Care Local 1199 Local 1199 MagnaCare (National) MagnaCare Medicare Railroad Traditional Medicare Multiplan Multiplan MVP Health Care Child/Family Health Plus Essential Plan HMO Medicaid Managed Care Oxford Health Plans Freedom Liberty Quality Health Management Quality Health Management RiverSpring Special Needs UnitedHealthcare Columbia University Employee Plan Compass (Exchange) Empire Plan HMO Medicaid (Community Plan) Medicare Managed Care POS PPO VNSNY CHOICE Medicare Managed Care SelectHealth Special Needs WellCare Medicaid Managed Care Medicare Managed Care *Please contact the provider’s office directly to verify that your particular insurance is accepted. Credentials & Experience Education & Training Internship: St Mary's Medical Center Residency: New York University Medical Center Board Certifications Radiation Oncology Research Selected Publications For a complete list of publications, please visit: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/myncbi/simon.cheng.1/bibliography/public/ Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us For Patients Cancer Types and Care Screening and Outreach Research Education Contact Us Make an Appointment Columbia University Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center 1130 St. Nicholas Avenue 2nd Floor, Room 201 New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Back to top