Skip to main content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research ServicesWe're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities and social sciences collections. Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Accessibility Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean's Council for Equiy and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major or course who wants to help! Teaching Support Working together with faculty, we can help design and implement effective research experiences for students. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Collections Program Acquisitions Services Cataloging And Metadata Services Preservation Services Collections Management And Planning Group Collection Development Forum Scholarly Publishing & Communication: Issues & Resources Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Collections Program The goal of the Dartmouth College Library Collections Program is to provide materials in all formats to directly support the research and teaching mission of Dartmouth College, as well as the life-long learning needs of the Dartmouth community. The Collections Program departments and staff provide selection, purchase or lease, access management, metadata, and preservation services to support this goal. The Collections Program staff is also involved with partnerships and consortia among libraries, publishers, and vendors to provide greater access to resources than would otherwise be possible. Dartmouth College Library also develops digital collections through the Dartmouth Digital Collections initiatives. The subject specialist librarians select materials in consultation with the faculty and administrators in the departments, institutes and centers at Dartmouth College. Collection Development Policies give an overview of the programs and collections. The collections include materials such as print and digital books, journals, article databases, maps, videos, web resources, numerical datasets, musical scores and recordings, and visual image databases, as well as objects, manuscripts and archives. For more information, contact: Rose Reynolds, Interim Associate Librarian for Collection Strategies Quick Links Collection Development Policy (PDF) Collection Management Policy (PDF) Collection Development Policies Dartmouth Factbook Partnerships and Memberships Department or section navigation Collections Program Acquisitions Services Cataloging And Metadata Services Preservation Services Collections Management And Planning Group Collection Development Forum Scholarly Publishing & Communication: Issues & Resources Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Faculty Services Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy Last Updated: 5/17/22