Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Research & Innovation Menu Search TTU Research Home New Faculty Hire Package Guidelines Note: To view/edit changes in the start-up request PDF form linked on this page, Google Chrome is the recommended web browser. Start-up funds are to be used to support the development of your scholarly and creative work. Start-up funds are provided to support your research initiatives during your first three years at Texas Tech University. Process Start-up request negotiations must be for an individual; requests will not be considered for positions. The FY 2022, FY 2023, and FY 2024 start-up forms are linked here along with a checklist of documents to be included in the start-up package. The appropriate form and required addendum information must be completed and routed for approval and signatures prior to sending a faculty offer. Packages will route first to College Dean's Office for review/approval – please consult with your College about your in-house process. The College will send the completed package to the Office of Research and Innovation. The package can be emailed to startup.vpr@ttu.edu or delivered through campus mail. After review, OR&I will forward the package to the Division of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DDEI) if a commitment is requested. DDEI will forward the package to the Provost for review and approval of the offer letter and financial commitments. The Provost will send the signed package to OR&I for processing. Please note that all centrally requested equipment (HEAF) should be split equally across the VPRI and Provost Office lines. For example, if an equipment (HEF) request would have been $6k to the OR&I prior, please apply $3k to each line. No other funds are available from the Provost's office. Because 11B181/CRSF funds allow the University to save on fringe benefit costs, 11B181 funds in startup packages should only be used for salary costs. Should the new faculty member wish to transfer student or postdoctoral salary budgeted in a startup package into another expenditure category (e.g. equipment, supplies, etc.), department business managers should contact the College Business Manager who will coordinate the request, obtain Dean or Associate Dean for Research approval and forward on to OR&I finance group for consideration/approval. If approved, it will require a trade of 11B181 funds for another fund type. All packages must include a justification statement with a categorical breakdown of all funding requested by fiscal year. Salary must be broken out into salary type needed: Faculty, Graduate Student, Research Assistant, or Other Salary. Due to the nature of the start-up funding source, the justification statement should include a statement as to how the request meets the directive of promoting increased research capacity at Texas Tech University. Additionally, the OR&I and Provost Office start-up funding sources are state-restricted which limits request consideration to those compliant with the State of Texas and Texas Tech University expenditure guidelines. What types of purchases are allowed? Start-up funds may be used to purchase items that will aid you in acquiring external funding and further your research initiatives. Some of these expenditures include salary support, equipment, travel, software, lab supplies, etc. All purchases must fall in line with state and university guidelines. Core Research - 11B181 Funds Funds support salary expenses only (faculty, graduate student, research assistant, or other salary). Carry forwards are not allowed. Deadline: July 31st, funded year HEF – 13A048 Funds Funds support equipment purchases. Funds are provided from OR&I and the Provost Offices (50/50 split). Funds are available for 3 fiscal years from start date (ex: Award month, September 2021, deadline to use August 31, 2023). Deadline: August 31st, from first year of award NRUF – 14A001 Funds Funds support “Other” expenses such as domestic travel, supplies, etc. Funds are available for 3 fiscal years from start date (ex: Award month, September 2021, deadline to use August 31, 2023). Deadline: August 31st, from first year of award Unsuccessful Recruitment Please note that all start-up allocations are for the individuals for whom they were requested. Any start-up distributions not being spent for the requested individual or for an individual who was recruited unsuccessfully must be cancelled as soon as possible by notifying all parties and returning any distributed funding. Unused Funds HEF (13A048) and NRUF (14A001) funds will carry forward for 3 years from your start date. Except for instances where an extension of the tenure clock has been granted, requests to carry startup funds forward beyond the third year should be submitted to startup.vpr@ttu.edu through the Start-Up Funding Carry Forward Exception Form. Please note, your dean, research dean, and department chair must sign this form for consideration. Notification of the request will be sent to the Chief Financial Officer. The justification of the requested carry forward must be linked to specific activities or objectives that bear on research success and productivity. Generally, only carry forward requests of a modest size will be approved. Travel Expenses International travel expenses are not allowed on 14A001 funds. If funds for international travel are needed, a trade within your college/department can be made with OR&I approval. If your college/department does not have the correct funds for international travel, a possible trade with OR&I can be made. A travel credit card for all domestic travel expenses applied against 14A001 is required. You can work with your departmental business manager to get this application submitted/processes through Procurement Services. These guidelines are available as a download here. For questions, please contact Josie Solis at josie.solis@ttu.edu or (806) 742-3905. Office of Research & Innovation Like Office of Research & Innovation on FacebookLike Office of Research & Innovation on Facebook Follow Office of Research & Innovation on twitterFollow Office of Research & Innovation on twitter Subscribe to Office of Research & Innovation on YouTubeSubscribe to Office of Research & Innovation on YouTube Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Box 41075 Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3905 Email vpr.communications@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 10, 2022 4:42 PM Office of Research & Innovation About Office of Research & Innovation About Back About the Office Office of Research & Innovation About About the Office Back Mission & Vision Office Services Staff Office of Research & Innovation About Staff Back Directory Org Chart Research Advisory Council Metrics Office of Research & Innovation About Metrics Back Monthly Annual Report Research Funding Office of Research & Innovation Research Funding Back External Funding Office of Research & Innovation Research Funding External Funding Back Key Research Intelligence and Funding Opportunities Funding Institutional HSI Grant Opportunities Limited Submissions Internal Funding Office of Research & Innovation Research Funding Internal Funding Back Internal Funding Opportunities Assistance for Residential Fellowships Fulbright Scholar Resources Faculty Awards Office of Research & Innovation Research Funding Faculty Awards Back Targeted Faculty Awards Internal Faculty Awards Celebration of Faculty Excellence Startup Requests Costs of Research Research Development Office of Research & Innovation Research Development Back Proposal Assistance Faculty Research Club Core Facilities Data Management Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Innovation Research Development Centers & Institutes Back University Recognized Centers & Institutes Reporting Find Collaborators (TTU Scholars) Research Guide Innovation Office of Research & Innovation Innovation Back Innovation Hub at Research Park Office of Research Commercialization SBIR/STTR Hub City Small Business Triage Research Services Safety & Responsible Research Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Back Responsible Research Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Responsible Research Back Office of Responsible Research Responsible Conduct of Research Resources Safety Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Safety Back EH&S Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Institutional Laboratory Safety Committee (ILSC) Radiation and Laser Safety Committee (RLSC) Human Subjects Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Human Subjects Back Human Research Protection Program Institutional Review Board (IRB) Animal Care Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Animal Care Back Animal Care Services Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Financial Conflict of Interest Disclosure Export Control Research at TTU Office of Research & Innovation Research at TTU Back TTU Scholars Initiatives Office of Research & Innovation Research at TTU Initiatives Back Thrive! Rural America Excellence in Cotton & Natural Fibers Research Network Hurricane Resilience Research Institute Publications Office of Research & Innovation Research at TTU Publications Back Discoveries Magazine Raider Impacts Watch Research Unfold Strategic Research Themes Development Roadmap Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index