Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Majors African and African Diaspora Studies Art History Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classics Communication Computer Science Economics English Environmental Geoscience Environmental Studies Film Studies French Geological Sciences German Studies Hispanic Studies History Human-Centered Engineering Independent Major International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Italian Linguistics Mathematics Music Neuroscience Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Russian Slavic Studies Sociology Studio Art Theatre Theology Find Your Program Explore Majors Combined Undergrad-Grad Programs BC Law 3+3 Program In order to respond to changing student needs, the Boston College Law School has instituted an accelerated admissions program (a 3+3 Program). The 3+3 Program allows to students to earn an undergraduate degree and a law degree in six years instead of seven. Under this program, exceptionally well-qualified students from the Morrissey College will be allowed to enter the Boston College Law School after completing their junior year of undergraduate study. More information During their junior year, students seeking to participate in the 3+3 Program apply to Boston College Law School. If accepted for admission, they begin law school immediately following completion of their junior year. Upon successful completion of the first year of law school with grades of “C” or better, students earn a bachelor’s degree from the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences. Upon successful completion of the remaining two years of law school, students earn a J.D. from Boston College Law School. The 3+3 Program is limited to undergraduates in the Morrissey College who have completed at least four full-time semesters in residence in the College. Admission to the Program Juniors applying for admission to this program must take the Law School Admission Test (LSAT) or the Graduate Record Exam (GRE). The Law School evaluates carefully the quality of your academic record, faculty recommendations, and your LSAT score. Admissions interviews are required for all applicants to the 3+3 program. For all applicants, other qualifications are considered, including extracurricular activities, involvement in cultural or civic affairs, and work experience. The Law School welcomes applications from qualified students belonging to groups under-represented in the legal profession. Eligibility Requirements Before entering the Law School (in other words, by the end of the junior year), Morrissey College accelerated-admission students must complete: all requirements of one undergraduate Arts and Sciences academic major; the University’s Core Curriculum; the Arts and Sciences language requirement; and, have earned at least 90 credits towards the bachelor’s degree in Arts and Sciences courses. Students in the Morrissey College Honors Program must complete requirements for that program before entering the Law School. Completion of the Undergraduate Degree Upon successful completion of two full semesters of law school, a maximum of 32 Law School credit hours will be applied as elective credit towards the undergraduate degree. If needed in order for the student to attain the 96 credits in Morrissey College courses normally required within the 120 total credits needed for completion of the undergraduate degree, six credits from specifically designated first year law school courses can be applied as Morrissey College credits towards the undergraduate degree. When to Apply Students applying for accelerated admission should complete the application process by early January of their junior year. It is preferable for applicants to have taken the LSAT by February of their junior year. Contact the pre-law adviser early in the fall semester of junior year to discuss the admission process. At the time of application, students should have completed at least 75 Morrissey College credit hours toward the bachelor’s degree. Preparation for Accelerated Admission Plan ahead. If you are interested in accelerated admission to the Law School, you must plan carefully to meet the program’s requirements and deadlines. It is especially important in your early undergraduate years to plan your schedule so that you will complete all major, core and language requirements on time. You should discuss your interest in the program with the pre-law adviser during your freshman year. You should also inform your primary academic adviser of your interest so that you may plan your schedule accordingly. Upon entering the Law School (in other words, after completing their junior year of study), accelerated-admission students will be Boston College Law School students and therefore will no longer be eligible for undergraduate housing and financial aid. Students will be eligible for Law School financial aid. Fifth Year B.A/M.A and B.S/M.S In cooperation with the College of Arts and Sciences, the Graduate School offers a five-year B.A./M.A. program in some departments. Application to the program normally takes place early in the second semester of the junior year. Students in the two-year M.A. program cannot be retroactively considered for the five-year B.A./M.A. program. That is, students who begin the two-year M.A. program cannot switch to the B.A./M.A. program. More information The applicant must complete an application to the Master's degree program in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Application requirements may differ slightly from the traditional Master's program. Please check with the department to determine required materials. Admission to the B.A./M.A. program normally requires an overall GPA of 3.333 and a GPA of 3.5 in the major. Although specific B.A./M.A. program requirements will vary across departments the program limits the number of courses to two credited towards the Master's degree that may also be counted towards the undergraduate degree. The undergraduate degree will be conferred upon completion of undergraduate requirements. The Master's degree will be conferred upon completion of degree requirements specified by the department. Note: Current BC students are not required to submit an application fee. Apply More Fifth Year and Dual Degree Programs Back To Top Back To Top Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College