Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now College of Sciences The largest college at UCF offers 23 undergraduate, 16 master’s and 12 doctoral degree programs, spanning the analytic, behavioral, communicative, computational, natural, physical and social sciences. Check out our programs and find out how you can discover the sciences both within and outside of the classroom. sciences.ucf.edu Michael Schwirtz ’03 was selected as a 2020 Pulitzer Prize winner for international reporting, one of the honor’s 15 journalism categories. UCF RESTORES, is a post-traumatic stress disorder treatment clinic, where most patients experience significantly improved symptoms — and nearly two-thirds no longer showing the clinical criteria for a PTSD diagnosis. The Biology Department’s Marine Turtle Research Group monitors one the world’s most important nesting beaches for threatened loggerhead and green sea turtles. The National Center for Integrated Coastal Research takes an interdisciplinary approach to complex environmental, economic and social problems threatening coastal communities. The National Center for Forensic Science is a research center at UCF that provides forensic science research and operational support to the criminal justice community. UCF is taking space research above and beyond with many of our researchers tied to major space missions exploring Pluto, Saturn, the Kuiper Belt, Mars, the moon, comets, asteroids, Jupiter and exoplanets. Search Degrees The College of Sciences offers programs spanning the physical and social sciences with topics from uncovering the mysteries of the natural world to understanding humans and the societies we form. Or browse by: Bachelors Masters Doctorates Top College Degrees Top College Degrees Anthropology (BA) Biology (BS) Chemistry (BS) International and Global Studies (BA) Mathematics (BS) Physics (BS) Psychology (BS) Sociology (BA) Statistics (BS) Admissions Info Explore admissions requirements, deadlines, tuition and financial aid, and more. Visit UCF Take a tour of the campus and see what makes UCF so amazing. Apply Now Seeking a bachelor’s degree? Interested in graduate school? Get started today. Sciences News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Colleges & Campus Research in 60 Seconds Video: Examining Effective Crisis Communication Pegasus Professor Timothy Sellnow, who teaches in the Nicholson School of Communication and Media, researches the importance and impact of simply using the right words during… Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Monsters in the Closet UCF’s Bug Closet holds more than half a million specimens and countless tales of stranger-than-fiction beetles, butterflies and wasps that help weave our wondrous environmental web. Read More University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida