Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics University Initiatives Date December 8, 2021 2021-12-08 Media Contact Jill Kimball [email protected] 401-863-5450 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Together, Brown, Vartan Gregorian Elementary are designing, creating hands-on ‘STEAM room’ for kids Staff at Brown University are working with the Providence public school to transform an empty classroom into an engaging, interactive space where students can conduct experiments and work on creative projects. Throughout the 2021-22 academic year, Brown and Vartan Gregorian Elementary School are collaborating to outfit an empty classroom with new furniture and supplies, transforming it into a vibrant laboratory-like space with endless possibilities. All photos: Nick Dentamaro/Brown University PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Science and technology instruction is about to get even more engaging than the exciting lessons already in place at Providence’s Vartan Gregorian Elementary School. Teachers and administrators at the school, located just blocks away from Brown University in the city’s Fox Point neighborhood, are working with the University to transform an empty classroom into a hands-on, interactive space where students from kindergarten to fifth grade can explore science, technology, engineering, arts and math — or STEAM for short. Throughout the 2021-22 academic year, the two schools are collaborating to outfit the space with new furniture and supplies, with the goal of transforming a traditional third-grade classroom into a vibrant laboratory-like space with endless possibilities. By late spring, with funding from Brown enabling project implementation, students and teachers at Vartan Gregorian Elementary will be able to conduct interactive experiments, work together on creative projects, and fill the walls and windows with finished art and science projects. Brown President Christina H. Paxson said the collaboration is inspired in part by the elementary school’s namesake, Vartan Gregorian, who served as president of Brown from 1989 to 1997 and died in 2020. For nearly a decade before Fox Point Elementary School was renamed in his honor, Gregorian had considered it his “adopted” school, partnering with educators and local leaders to expand its resources and physical footprint, connect its students with tutoring and mentoring, and host school-wide enrichment activities. “Vartan Gregorian believed that institutions of higher education have an obligation to respond to urgent social needs across the nation and world, including the need to deliver quality education to every single child,” Paxson said. “His legacy lives on in Brown’s deep connection with this elementary school, and the University continues to build on the foundations he first laid 30 years ago, both at Vartan Gregorian Elementary and across the city at other public schools. We’re excited to help turn the vision for a new STEAM laboratory into reality.” 1 of 3 For more than a month, teachers and students at Vartan Gregorian Elementary School will have the opportunity to test out a "mobile classroom" of sample couches, tables, chairs and stools from the manufacturing company K.I. Furniture. 2 of 3 For nearly a decade before the school was renamed in his honor, Gregorian partnered with educators and local leaders to expand its resources and physical footprint, connect its students with tutoring and mentoring, and host school-wide enrichment activities. 3 of 3 Brown’s relationship with Gregorian’s “adopted” school began in the early 1990s, when student athletes at the University began visiting elementary students throughout the academic year to serve as tutors, mentors and role models. Three decades later, that tradition lives on. Paxson noted that the project reflects Brown’s decades-long commitment to providing impactful experiences for students in the Providence Public School District, contributing to strengthened educational outcomes and enhancing their access to a high-quality college education. Every year, hundreds of students, faculty and staff in the Brown community engage with PPSD schools through teaching, tutoring, after-school enrichment and more. And the continued growth of the endowed Fund for the Education of the Children of Providence provides sustainable financial support for initiatives that promote academic excellence and success for K-12 students. Most recently, funds from the endowment supported the transformation of a library at Hope High School. In a visit to the school on Wednesday, Dec. 8, representatives from the University joined Vartan Gregorian Elementary Principal Matthew Russo to explore a “mobile classroom” full of sample couches, tables, chairs and stools from the manufacturing company K.I. Furniture. In the coming weeks, Russo said, teachers and students will have the opportunity to test out the furniture and provide feedback on what they like best. 1 of 3 Representatives from Brown and K.I. Furniture tested out a set of "ricochet stools,” which feature non-slip convex bases that allow students who crave movement to wiggle around while seated. 2 of 3 Joanna Saltonstall, a program manager in Brown’s Department of Facilities Management, said all of the furniture options prioritize flexibility and collaboration. 3 of 3 Throughout the room are fiberglass “ruckus chairs” that let students choose how they sit: They can use the taller side of the chair as a backrest, as a seating perch, or as an armrest — as demonstrated by University representatives on a Dec. 8 visit. Joanna Saltonstall, a program manager in Brown’s Department of Facilities Management, said all of the furniture options prioritize flexibility and collaboration. Throughout the room are fiberglass “ruckus chairs” that let students choose how they sit: They can use the taller side of the chair as a backrest, as an armrest or even as a seating perch. Rectangular, triangular and circular tables throughout the room can be pushed together, can move up and down and can even be turned sideways to save space. “Ricochet stools” feature non-slip convex bases that allow students who crave movement to wiggle around while seated. And storage lockers come with bins in a variety of sizes, allowing teachers to organize supplies in many different ways. “The furniture is adjustable and flexible, and it’s all on rolling casters,” Saltonstall said. “Teachers and students can use it however they want through mid-January as they start to think about how they might use the space. It’s a great way for us to find out what they like and don’t like, what works and what doesn’t.” In January 2022, Saltonstall and K.I. Furniture will draw on feedback from the school to create a layout for the STEAM room — which will in turn inform how they’ll transform the space’s walls, floors and lighting and help fill it with supplies. Russo said the new space will “round out” the learning experience at Vartan Gregorian Elementary, which already boasts a strong arts program, a large auditorium and a garden space. While the STEAM room will primarily serve fourth and fifth graders, Russo said, he envisions a space that provides learning opportunities for students at all grade levels, from LEGO-building to water play to introductory robotics lessons. “I firmly believe in providing hands-on activities for kids in addition to traditional classroom instruction,” Russo said. “Providing a space for exploratory learning, where students have a chance to build and collaborate, is essential to ensuring they become well-rounded learners.” Vartan Gregorian Elementary Principal Matthew Russo said the new space will “round out” students' learning experience. Brown’s relationship with Gregorian’s “adopted” school began in the early 1990s, when student athletes at the University began visiting elementary students throughout the academic year to serve as tutors, mentors and role models, helping at points to raise money for school supplies. Three decades later, that tradition lives on. Since the late 1990s, the student-designed Project Eye to Eye, now a national organization, has enlisted Brown undergraduates with learning disabilities to tutor their younger counterparts at the elementary school — an endeavor to show children who struggle with spelling, reading, writing and concentrating that they, too, can find academic success. Through a 20-year-old program run by Brown’s Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Science, graduate students collaborate with teachers at the school to develop and implement inquiry-driven science lessons. And in 2009, a $10,000 grant from the Fund for the Education of the Children of Providence supported curricular development in Vartan Gregorian Elementary classrooms. Russo said Gregorian’s passing in 2020 inspired staff at the elementary school and at Brown to rekindle their close relationship. “Teachers here said, ‘We need to do more to recognize the contributions he made,’” Russo said. “Then, President Paxson reached out and said the same thing: ‘Let’s re-energize our collaboration.’ We’ve always had a close relationship with the school — many parents of Brown employees send their kids here — so it’s a truly organic partnership.” Tags President Related news: University Initiatives Brown adopts land acknowledgment, additional commitments to Native and Indigenous communities May 24, 2022 The acknowledgment is part of a set of commitments aimed at building a better understanding of the relationship between the University community, Indigenous peoples of the region and the land on which Brown is situated. Read Article Open details for Brown adopts land acknowledgment, additional commitments to Native and Indigenous communities University Initiatives In partnership with Providence’s Building Futures, Brown jump-starts careers in construction May 6, 2022 Over 15 years, more than 320 apprentices from Building Futures have trained at dozens of construction sites on Brown’s campus — providing them with the training they need to secure stable, well-paying careers. Read Article Open details for In partnership with Providence’s Building Futures, Brown jump-starts careers in construction University Initiatives Brown launches online-only master’s degree in public health February 23, 2022 An innovative new version of Brown’s MPH program, delivered exclusively online, will expand access to a top public health education for learners nationally and around the world. Read Article Open details for Brown launches online-only master’s degree in public health Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Together, Brown, Vartan Gregorian Elementary are designing, creating hands-on ‘STEAM room’ for kids Open details for Together, Brown, Vartan Gregorian Elementary are designing, creating hands-on ‘STEAM room’ for kids Bookmark this Page