Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Alumni Job Shadow Program Home Events and Programs Alumni Job Shadow Program Events and Programs Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Experience a Day in the Life The Alumni Job Shadow Program is an opportunity for students to gain insight into an industry/organization/job function of interest, make connections, and further discern how their skills, interests, and values translate to the workplace. Using Eagle Exchange, the Career Center will match students with Boston College alumni who will serve as hosts for half or full day shadowing experiences Details Dates Job Shadows occur between May 18–25, 2022 Class Years Rising Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors Majors/Schools All Welcome How to Register Registration is closed for the 2022 Alumni Job Shadow program Shadow an Alum for a Day A job shadow is a half or full day experience where you'll have the opportunity to connect with a working professional and learn about their career field. While job shadows vary based on the organization, a typical job shadow experience may include the opportunity to: Conduct informational interviews and network with BC alumni and other employees Explore potential career paths within the organization and the profession Review a current project or case study Conduct a simulation of a real situation being faced by the company Attend staff meetings Review current trends in the profession Note: For May 2022, there will be both virtual and in-person shadowing opportunities. The format will be dependent upon student/employer preference in addition to current safety protocols. Learning outcomes After participating in the Alumni Job Shadow program, you will be able to: Identify at least one skill you hope to incorporate into your career paths that aligns with the skills employers are seeking in recent college graduates. Connect the skills, interests and values you are gaining at Boston College to specific opportunities of interest. More confidently demonstrate effective networking skills to communicate with alumni and professionals about your industries of interest. Articulate 1-3 next steps in your career discernment and planning. The Alumni Job Shadow Program is run through Eagle Exchange. You will need to activate your account in order to sign up for the program. Questions? Email us at eagleexchange@bc.edu 2022 Key Dates: Alumni Host Registration February 11–March 4 Student Registration March 14–25 Student Orientation April 4 at 7:00 p.m. or April 7 at 7:00 p.m. Match Notifications Sent April 11–15 Shadows Occur May 18–25 How Job Shadow Registration Works Alumni Hosts Register Alumni sign up on Eagle Exchange between February 11 and March 4 to host students for job shadows (virtual or in-person). Students Register and Favorite Hosts Students sign up on Eagle Exchange between March 14 and 25 to participate in a job shadow. Once registered, students favorite alumni hosts that they would like to shadow. Student Orientation and Match Notifications Sent Registered students are required to attend a student orientation on April 4 or 7. Match notifications are then sent out between April 11 and 15. Job Shadows Occur Students participate in a job shadow with their matched alumni host between May 18 and 25. 2021 Opportunities Opportunites by Cluster: Business, Consulting, Finance 231 Opportunities Communication, Arts, Media 92 Opportunities Education, Nonprofit, Social Service 128 Opportunities Government, Law, Public Policy 99 Opportunities Healthcare and Nursing 109 Opportunities Science, Technology, Engineering 19 Opportunities Featured Hosts: Amazon Web Services Liberty Mutual Insurance Facebook IBM Oracle Pricewaterhousecoopers Wayfair West Elm Los Angeles Football Club (LAFC) HBO ESPN Betches Media International Cinematographers Guild The Wall Street Journal NBC Universal Museum of Science, Boston Fred Rogers Center International Youth Foundation U.S. Department of State U.S. Department of the Treasury The Bronx Defenders FBI The Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America VA Boston Healthcare System American Psychological Association Dell Pfizer Bayer 678 Total shadowing opportunities 227 Unique alumni hosts Why do a job shadow? “Instead of just having one day dedicated to the job shadow, my host used our virtual meeting as an opportunity to extend the job shadow and see it more as a journey. We continue to stay in contact and I frequently talk with him and other employees, which has been very helpful.” 2020 Virtual Job Shadow Participant Student FAQs Who is eligible to participate? The program is designed to be an opportunity for undergraduate students to explore fields of interest while still enrolled at BC. However, given that shadowing opportunities are limited right now due to the pandemic, we invite interested graduating seniors and graduate students who are exploring career interests to apply as well. Please note that undergraduate students will be prioritized and matched with hosts first before moving on to graduates. How long is the program? Each job shadow opportunity will occur on one half or full business day from May 18-25, 2022. How does the matching process work? Using Eagle Exchange, the Career Center will match students with Boston College alumni based on a combination of factors including overlap in availability and industry interest areas. Once registered, students will have the opportunity to select their top three hosts. “Favoriting” is taken into consideration during the matching process. What is the “favoriting” period? Once a student has registered for the program through Eagle Exchange, they will be able to search through the list of alumni hosts and indicate their top three preferences. We highly recommend that students take the opportunity to favorite by the March 25 deadline. Is there funding available for shadowing? There is not funding available for completing job shadows. If financial burden would prevent you from completing a job shadow, please apply for a shadow and contact eagleexchange@bc.edu with your specific question once you’ve been matched. What happens if I’m not matched with my top choice? Our matching process will make every attempt to match you with a host with overlapping interest areas. Please note that we cannot guarantee that all students will be matched. Matches are primarily based on availability and industry area. Once registered, filter through the list of alumni hosts to determine who is offering shadowing opportunities in your industry of interest and geographic region (if interested in participating in-person). When will I hear if I am matched with a host(s)? You will be contacted via email by a member of the Career Center staff with your job shadow match details by April 15. How do I prepare for my job shadow? There will be a mandatory job shadow orientation that will help prepare you. The session will include questions to ask during the day, what to wear, how to follow-up, etc. How do I cancel a job shadow I already accepted? We strongly encourage students to participate in job shadows that they have been matched with. Failing to complete a job shadow or canceling at the last minute will reflect negatively on you and on the reputation of Boston College students. In the event of an emergency that requires you to change your plans, please email your job shadow host directly, and CC eagleexchange@bc.edu at least 48 hours in advance. Failure to honor this commitment can result in loss of Handshake access. In replacement of your job shadow experience, we ask you to reflect on the following questions: Is there an opportunity for you to reach out to your job shadow host to thank them, even though you are not able to participate, and arrange a time to speak briefly to facilitate an exploratory career conversation? In addition to the above, what is one thing you can do over your summer break to help you move forward with clarifying your career goals? What do I do if a job shadow program cancels my placement? Please reach out to eagleexchange@bc.edu to see if you may be reassigned. How do I formulate a thank you note? Send a personalized thank you note to each of your hosts including what you appreciated and found helpful from the shadowing opportunity. Job Shadow Thank You Note Example: Dear Ms. Hawk, Thank you for providing me with the opportunity to gain more detailed information about the (BLANK) industry. It was very helpful to learn about your position and hear your insight about the direction/growth/rewards and challenges of the (BLANK) industry. As a result of meeting you and your colleagues, I am even more interested in (major/industry of interest) and plan to take further classes in (BLANK) as you suggested. I hope to have more conversations with you in the future. Thank you for your time! Sincerely, James Jones Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College