Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > Academics > Academic Programs A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Columbia University School of Nursing is a leader in graduate nursing education. Our reputation for excellence attracts highly-motivated students eager to apply the knowledge they acquire to improve the health and well-being of their patients. At Columbia Nursing, learning begins in the classroom and clinical settings. Clinical placements make it possible for students to work and learn in some of New York City’s most challenging and rewarding health care settings. Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner The Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Program is designed to prepare nurses to care for patients who are acutely and critically ill across the continuum of acute care services. Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner The Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Program is designed to prepare advanced practice nurses to deliver primary health care to all persons, from adolescence through end of life. Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Doctor of Nursing Practice The Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) program prepares nurses for independent practice with the knowledge, skills, and attributes necessary for comprehensive patient care across sites and over time. Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) The Columbia Nursing PhD is a full-time, research-intensive program that prepares nurses for careers as nurse scientists who conduct research across a range of populations and health conditions. Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Family Nurse Practitioner The Family Nurse Practitioner Program allows students to follow patients utilizing obstetric, pediatric, gynecologic, as well as adult and geriatric primary care diagnostic and management skills. Family Nurse Practitioner Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Columbia Nursing's Masters Direct Entry (MDE) Program is for non-nurse graduates who hold a bachelor's degree and wish to become registered nurses (RNs). Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Learn more about the Columbia Nursing Master's in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership program here. Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia The Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Program is designed for graduates with a Bachelor's Degree in Nursing looking to become nurse anesthetists. Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Midwifery The Midwifery Program is designed to prepare nurse-midwives. The focus of the academic and clinical aspects of this program is the management process of pregnancy, childbirth, and newborn care. Midwifery Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing The Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing (OPEN) program allows non-nurses to take courses needed to apply to nursing school or other health professions that require science prerequisites. Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Pediatric Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Pediatric Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Program is designed to prepare nurses who seek advanced knowledge and skill in order to deliver primary health care to infants, children, and adolescents. Pediatric Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner The Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Program is designed to prepare advanced practice nurses in the assessment and treatment of mentally ill patients over the lifespan. Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses... The Certificate of Professional Achievement in Transgender Non-Binary Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs aims to advance skills to provide quality care to trans NB people. Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered... This CPA in Palliative Care from Columbia Nursing will provide APRNs the specific knowledge and clinical skill to provide evidence based, competent and compassionate care to patients and families. Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top