Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Health Sciences About Undergraduate Graduate Certificates & Continuing Ed Students Research Centers & Institutes News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Research Research Labs Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Laboratory Bone Densitometry and Body Composition Laboratory Cardiorespiratory/Metabolic Laboratory Exercise Instructional Laboratory Musculoskeletal Analysis Laboratory Exercise Training Intervention Laboratory Additional Facilities Faculty Research Research Study Recruitment Lab Equipment Inventory Take Action Find a Program that Drives You Meet our Faculty Schedule an Advising Appointment Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home College of Health Sciences Research Exercise Instructional Laboratory Exercise Instructional Laboratory Director: Lucas Baumgartner The Exercise Instructional Laboratory is exclusively dedicated as a teaching facility for laboratory-specific courses and activities across disciplines. Students learn and practice a variety of lab-based skills. The Laboratory lays the foundation of exercise assessment for future fitness and healthcare professionals by keeping up to date with new technologies and changes within the field regarding testing and measurement. The following are examples of specific measures taught in the laboratory as a component of our curriculum: Heart Rate and Blood Pressure Students are educated on palpation, auscultation and electrocardiography as means of identifying heart rate, along with manual blood pressure assessment. Techniques are instructed at rest and during exercise. Heart rate and blood pressure are used not only as health markers, but as key components to measure fitness and monitor exercise training. Students also learn the potential values and limitations of utilizing heart rate as a monitored variable during physical activity. Electrocardiography Assessment Students learn proper lead placement for an electrocardiogram (ECG), as well as identification of electrical conduction of the heart via atrial depolarization, ventricular depolarization and ventricle repolarization. Identification of the heart's electrical activity both at rest and during exercise allows students to comprehend the concepts that are applied by health care professionals within the cardiac diagnostic/treatment setting. Aerobic and Anaerobic Fitness Testing Students can experience the differences of aerobic and anaerobic fitness testing both as a participant and test administrator. Tests utilizing the treadmill, cycle ergometer and upper body ergometer (for potential use with wheelchair-bound individuals) are available to measure estimates of maximal oxygen consumption as well as lactic acid threshold. Indirect Calorimetry can be utilized to determine maximal oxygen consumption and aerobic capacity, as well as fuel utilization during exercise. Pulmonary Function Testing Students are educated on the values of lung capacity at rest and the changes that occur during exercise. A pulmonary/metabolic measurement device can be utilized to determine exercise induced increasing in lung volumes. Strength and Power Testing Students gain appreciation of the importance of accurate measures of strength/force production and their use in both an athletic and rehabilitative setting. Tools common within the field for isotonic and isometric measures are available. In addition to force production, acceleration and rate of force development measuring techniques are taught, with respect to their relevance to human performance. Range of Motion / Stability Testing Students learn proper techniques in assessment of individual joint range of motion through goniometry which take places in a clinical setting. Flexibility tests that are utilized in a field/fitness setting are also capable within the lab. Balance tests are taught, with a particular emphasis on how these could be incorporated into an exercise prescription for individuals with neurological or coordinative abnormalities. Body Composition and Anthopometrics Analysis of body weight, height and circumferences with a tape measure allow students to compare Body Mass Index (BMI) and Waist to Hip Ratio results with other more specific measures of body composition. Field tests including the use of high quality calipers for skinfold measurement allows students to gain experience in making reliable measures of body composition. Exposure to laboratory or clinically based assessment of body composition through Dual-Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry (DXA) and Air Displacement Plethysmography are made available to keep student up to date with technological advances in body composition measurement. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/25/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.