Skip to Main Content Search Workday@Penn Search About Team Your Workday Faculty Postdocs Graduate Students Student Workers Student Recruitment and Hiring Managers Staff Business Partners Toolbox Mobile App Penn Community Penn Employee Solution Center Work Location Workday Policies Training News System Status Webinar Wednesdays Learning and Talent Workday@Penn Login Pause Carousel Terminate or change job Audit Student Workers May 16-31 Access the detailed steps A bi-annual update for our business partners Spring Workday Forum Access the slides and recording Flexible, hybrid, remote Work Location Guidance on Workday procedures A chatbot for your use Workday Assistant Understands Learn about this self-service aid For Our Business Partners New for those who hold security roles with defined business process responsibilities in their supervisory organizations. Manager- and timekeeper-adjusted deadlines for Memorial Day 5/27/2022 Update: External student records and work-study awards and balances Audit student workers May 16-31 Tips on avoiding duplicate records when hiring student workers Three new reports available to assist with student workers Retro costing coming in July New guide to work location Faculty/staff merit increase program timeline and guidelines Onboarding step for new hires to acknowledge their COVID-19 vaccination status Auto-termination of workers who have not been paid in recent months Recruiting for summer federal work-study student jobs What is delegation management? Delegation is the process that provides coverage when someone with Workday responsibilities has time off or is away. See the policy and tip sheet. Self-Service Features Report your COVID-19 vaccinated status with help from Self Service-Enter Vaccination Information pdf tip sheet. Access your tax forms via Workday. Use the Self Service-Access to W-2, W-4, and State Reciprocal Forms pdf tip sheet. Search for and apply to a staff position as an internal candidate in Workday. Use the Self Service-Apply for a Job as an Internal Candidate pdf tip sheet. Complete your onboarding. Get help with the Self Service-Onboarding in Workday for New Hires pdf tip sheet. New to Workday? Try searching tip sheets in the Basics and Self Service categories, especially Getting Started: Navigating Workday (pdf). Use your PennKey here to access website resources Contact Us Penn Employee Solution Center solutioncenter@upenn.edu or (215) 898-7372 Quick Links For Faculty For Postdocs For Graduate Students For Student Workers (Non-Exempt Weekly Paid) For Managers For Staff For Our Business Partners in Schools, Centers, and Administrative Centers Penn COVID-19 Response News and Announcements Compensation Reports to Help You Manage Change to FY23 June 1, 2022 Go to All Inbox Items June 1, 2022 Alert: External Student Records and Work-Study Awards and Balances May 23, 2022 Student Jobs and Avoiding Duplicate Records May 16, 2022 Audit Student Workers May 16-31 May 16, 2022 More University of Pennsylvania Workday@Penn University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 Workday-Announcement@upenn.edu Home Penn Home Penn HR Payroll U@Penn Copyright © 2022 The University of Pennsylvania Copyright Equal Opportunity Employer Legal Notices Clery Act Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help