Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Computer and Information Science PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Computer and Information Science PhD Apply Request More Info Computer and Information Science PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Computer and Information Science PhD The Computer and Information Science PhD prepares students to undertake independent research to promote science and engineering advances in the field of computer and information sciences. Doctoral students work closely with faculty at the frontier of research in the field, developing theory, methodology and experimental skills to investigate and solve advanced technological issues. The program can be completed on either a full- or part-time basis, and classes take place during the evening. Many doctoral students work 20 hours each week in teaching assistant roles. This means that most students will be funded for up to four years beyond a master’s degree. The Computer and Information Sciences (CIS) Department is located in the state-of-the-art SERC (Science Education and Research Center) building on Temple’s Main Campus. The CIS Department is one of the oldest Computer Science Departments in the country and is consistently expanding its academic and research offerings. Concentrations You can focus on Computer and Information Science or you can take one of the following concentrations. Artificial Intelligence and Applications Advance the field of artificial intelligence with a terminal degree for future educators, researchers, and developers. Students learn the characteristics and specifications of systems that exhibit intelligent behavior before theorizing on the next step for this technology. View Concentration Details Computer and Network Systems Design and maintain the largest and most complex computing systems and networks with a doctoral program that covers all issues related to interconnected devices. Candidates become proficient in systems programming and architecture, including networks and distributed systems. View Concentration Details Information Systems Optimize corporations and organizations with data-based consulting as a PhD in information systems. Candidates focus on systems that provide information to users regarding performance levels, and employ their new skills in improving them. View Concentration Details Software Systems Create new software platforms and research their development with a PhD in software systems. Candidates focus on the processes and methodologies associated with superior software design. View Concentration Details Classes & Curriculum The PhD program is structured around the thesis; course and seminar work are designed around candidates’ completion of this original piece of work. A metric of quality for the thesis is that it be publishable in a recognized scientific journal. Along with a thesis and coursework, PhD candidates are expected to teach at least one course. As a full-time PhD student, you should be able to complete all of your requirements within three to four years. The time limit for completing the PhD program is seven years. Required courses you will take during your studies vary depending on your chosen track. Learn more about Computer and Information Science PhD courses and requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Computational Data Science MS Computer Science MS Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM High- Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Information Science and Technology MS Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science Information Science and Technology Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors will help you to shape your coursework and research activities to align with your goals and academic interests. Chiu Chiang Tan is the graduate chairperson and main faculty advisor for the Computer and Information Science PhD. Phone: 215-204-6847 Email: chiu.tan@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Computer and Information Sciences degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Association for Computing Machinery, which promotes the academic, professional and social development of students interested in computer technology. Association for Computing Machinery for Women, an organization that provides support and advocacy for women pursuing careers in technology. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. TU Dev, a community of students with a mutual interest in software design that fosters discussions on emerging trends and technologies in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-CIS-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Computer and Information Science PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info