Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > March 15, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff March 15, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear Colleagues, Several important milestones have been reached in recent days: The Armory team has administered over 72,000 doses. Expansion of eligible groups which now include persons age 60 and over and certain public-facing staff. Faculty, staff and students should check their eligibility by going to https://covid19vaccine.health.ny.gov/ Expansion of place of residence. The place of residence that is used as a criteria for administration of the vaccine has been changed to allow any location in New York State to vaccinate any eligible resident of New York State. Previously, most locations in New York City could only vaccinate residents of New York City. Students who meet other criteria in #2 who are temporary NYS residents due to attending school will be able to get the vaccine. However, faculty and staff who are residents of other states must get the vaccine in their states, unless they are in category 1a (patient facing). Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced that domestic travelers will no longer be required to quarantine after entering New York from another U.S. State or U.S. Territory starting April 1st. Columbia is reviewing its travel protocols and more information will be forthcoming. Important Reminders Please remember to continue to wear face coverings (preferably surgical masks or other two-ply face coverings), practice physical distancing, and wash hands frequently, even after you have been vaccinated. These measures, in addition to vaccinations, minimize the opportunity for the virus and the disease to spread. While updated CDC guidance states that fully vaccinated individuals in the community do not need to quarantine after exposure to COVID-19, CDC continues to suggest that fully vaccinated health care workers should quarantine after exposure to COVID-19 or travel. Moreover, NYS has not updated their quarantine requirements. Until NYS quarantine requirements are updated, vaccinated individuals must continue to quarantine after exposure to COVID-19. The Armory vaccination site is open Tuesdays through Saturdays, 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. More information is available on CUIMC’s COVID Vaccine Information page. Starting Tuesday 3/16, a new vaccination site will open in the Black Building, at 630 W 168th Street, for eligible individuals. Hours of operation and information about appointment scheduling is forthcoming, including outreach to eligible faculty, staff, and students. In the meantime, schedule your appointment at the Armory on 168th Street by going to VaccineTogetherNY.org or by scheduling at any city site. CUIMC Employees First and second doses: Employees of Columbia, Weill Cornell and NYP who are in category 1a (patient facing) can receive their first and second dose of the vaccine at the Armory. No appointment is necessary for first doses. Appointments are scheduled for second doses, but you can go to the Armory anytime on the day that you are scheduled. All faculty and staff age 65 or older, and those 18 and over with certain underlying chronic medical conditions, can receive a vaccine at any of the NYC or NYS public vaccination sites, or at the Armory if they are NYC residents. Appointments are required, and scheduling information is available at the VaccineTogetherNY website. Patient and Community Vaccinations at the Armory All persons 65 or older, and those 18 and over with certain underlying chronic medical conditions, are eligible to receive the vaccine at any of the NYC or NYS public vaccination sites, or at the Armory if they are NYC residents. Appointments are required, and scheduling information is available at the VaccineTogetherNY website. Eligible patients of Columbia, Weill Cornell, or NewYork-Presbyterian can receive the vaccine at the Armory and appointments can be scheduled through Connect. Information is updated as it becomes available on the VaccineTogetherNY website. Information has been sent to all eligible patients. The FAQ documents on the CUIMC COVID Vaccine Information page continue to be updated, so please check the site for the latest versions. Thank you and stay safe! Magda Sobieszczyk, MD, MPH Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell, MD, MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top