Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Biology Undergraduate Education Site Navigation Home Concentrations Biology for First-Years Courses BIOL 0200 Replacement | AP/IB Transfer Credit Writing Requirement Research Maria L. Caleel '87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Honors Diversity and Inclusion Peer Advising Curricular Resources Senior Prizes After Brown Employment Opportunities News & Facebook Print this Page Share this Page Arnold Laboratory Brown University Box GA-124 91 Waterman St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3133 Fax 401-863-7411 Stay Connected with Biology Undergraduate Education Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Biology Undergraduate Education Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion The Program in Biology is committed to strengthening diversity and inclusion among our staff, students, and faculty. Our Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP) is aligned with the University's overall set of concrete actions and available for download from Brown’s Office of Institutional Equity & Diversity. Dean Smith serves as Chair of the Program in Biology Diversity & Inclusion Action Plan. She welcomes conversation by email or in person with students, staff and faculty. Appointments may be scheduled with [email protected] or by emailing Dean Smith directly. The Office Institutional Equity and Diversity maintains an Incident Reporting system for all members of the community. Below are a few of the Biology DIAP activities of interest to our undergraduates. Fostering Community Biology Dept. Research Informational Events - These events, taking place in late Oct./early Nov., are hosted by each of the major biology departments with the goal of introducing students to biology research opportunities at Brown. These events are a great opportunity for first and second year students to interact with faculty outside of the classroom, see the inner-workings of labs, and meet older students working on independent study and thesis projects. Click our News page for a listing of this year's events! Biology’s Peer-Advising Program was recently launched to foster a stronger sense of community among our students. Peer advising offers first and second year students a way to broaden their mentor network, and provides juniors and seniors a way to give back. Hidden Curriculum Lunches - During spring semester Dean Smith hosts informal lunches to talk with students about the unwritten, unofficial, and often unintended lessons college has to offer. Topics include Sheryl Sandberg’s Lean In, managing stress in STEM, first gen college experiences, grit & resilience, and more. Diversity in the Curriculum The Program in Biology offers 15 courses that address issues of diversity including race, ethnicity, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability status, inequality, and other related areas of inquiry as relevant to topics and careers in the biological sciences. These courses are designated with DIV on our course offerings page. Living Biology at Brown and Beyond (BIOL 0100) is a new first-year seminar for historically underrepresented students taught by Dean Smith. LivBio has three goals: 1) introduce students to the people, projects, and opportunities in Biology at Brown, 2) foster and cultivate student STEM identities and interests, 3) arm students with personal, professional and academic skills to help them succeed in Biology at Brown (and beyond). Students will visit faculty research labs, learn novel lab skills, engage in active research talks from Professors, read and discuss timely books like ‘The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks’, and more. Brown recently launched a new Research Course branch of the Brown Learning Collaborative, a collaboration between the Sheridan Center and the HHMI funded initiative, "Innovation in Gateway STEM Courses". The goal is to develop a series of programs for faculty, graduate students, and postdoctoral fellows that will support development of Course-Based Undergraduate Research Experiences (often called "CUREs") in STEM and the social sciences. CURE courses are a part of the broader scope of available COEX ( Collaborative Research and Scholarly Experiences) courses. These courses are designated with COEX and can be found on our course offerings page. Brown – HHMI Gateway STEM Course Initiative - The goal of this program is to use well established teaching methods that broaden participation and increase retention in science, technology, engineering and math disciplines. The HHMI award has helped us renovate our teaching space to support student centered learning, develop new inquiry based courses, and train our faculty in inclusive teaching. Highlighting Diversity in Neuroscience through Course Content This recent article, from Department of Neuroscience faculty Monica Linden and Brown students Jane Kruskop and Eva Kitlen, appeared in a recent edition of The Journal of Undergraduate Neuroscience Education. Also in Biology Undergraduate Education Site Navigation Home Concentrations Biology for First-Years Courses BIOL 0200 Replacement | AP/IB Transfer Credit Writing Requirement Research Maria L. Caleel '87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Honors Diversity and Inclusion Peer Advising Curricular Resources Senior Prizes After Brown Employment Opportunities News & Facebook Print this Page Share this Page Arnold Laboratory Brown University Box GA-124 91 Waterman St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3133 Fax 401-863-7411 Stay Connected with Biology Undergraduate Education Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity