Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Brown Medicine Gastroenterology and Liver Research Liver Research Center Brown Medicine Gastroenterology and Liver Research Liver Research Center The Liver Research Center is a 13,000-sq. ft. facility emphasizing molecular biology of liver diseases. Fellows may participate in many of the established studies i.e., genomics, pathogenesis of HCC. The molecular relationship between chronic hepatitis B, C infection(s) and HCC is under investigation. Of interest is the generation of naturally occurring viral variants which convey different biologic properties i.e., latency, low gene expression, and increased virulence. Ongoing studies examine the molecular mechanisms of viral integration into cellular DNA during the development of HCC with emphasis on HBV variants. Attempts are underway to understand: hepadnavirus hepatocyte cell surface receptor binding protein, the functional role of hepatitis Bx protein, characterization and cloning of liver specific proteins. All relate to the hepatocyte transformation process since HBx, in combination with cellular factors, acts as a transcriptional transactivator of growth-related genes. The development of antiviral approaches i.e., antisense oligonucleotides, ribozymes, dominant negative mutants, therapeutic viral DNA-based vaccines, that interfere with HBV/HCV replication. Gene therapy of viral hepatic disease to develop DNA constructs for delivery to the liver i.e., receptor mediated endocytosis of targeted liposomes, and use of various adenoviral, retroviral, and adeno-associated viral constructs that express genes of interest in hepatocytes. Major work focuses on growth regulation of hepatocytes through factor receptors and intracellular signal transduction pathways i.e., insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1). Downstream MAP kinase activation is being studied in a variety of experimental and human disease systems. Finally, the relationship of chronic HBV infection and activation of growth factor signal transduction cascade is actively pursued at the molecular level. Finally, we also focus on 1) mechanisms of alcohol and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease that alters liver injury and repair 2) translational research involving early diagnosis and therapy of gastrointestinal and liver tumors, using monoclonal antibody based technology and phage cancer vaccine constructs and 3) signaling pathways important in cell growth and transformation with particular emphasis on the hepatic insulin signaling cascade. Welcome About Faculty Administration Training Programs Endoscopy Unit Liver Research Center Postdoctoral Fellows Research Support Staff Student Researchers Cake Hour Clinical Research Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center Liver Treatment Center Print this Page Share this Page Division of Gastroenterology Brown University Box G-RIH 55 Claverick Street 4th Floor Providence, RI 02903 Phone 401-444-7378 (Not for patients) Fax 401-444-2939 [email protected] Biology and Medicine Events Jun 2 1:00pm - 2:00pm REDCap Workshop: Automation in REDCap - Using REDCap to Automate Research Tasks Jun 3 8:30am - 9:30am Pediatric Grand Rounds Jun 8 11:00am - 12:00pm Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Grand Rounds* Finding the EHR Data to Tell Your Clinical Story: Early Experiences with Lifespan Pediatric Behavioral Health Emergency Services Jun 8 3:00pm - 5:00pm CDH Pitch Competition Jun 10 8:30am - 9:30am Pediatric Grand Rounds View full calendar > The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift Important GI Links Brown Physicians GI Fellowship Applicant Info Rhode Island Hospital Webpage Women's Medicine GI