Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Education Menu About At a Glance Contact the School Office of the Dean Dean's Biography Dean's Office Directory Dean's Office Directory Centennial Events Featured Profiles Impact Living-Learning Center Mission of the School of Education Outcomes Consumer Information Why Baylor School of Education Learning Spaces Marrs McLean Science Learning Resources Center (LRC) Media Lab Mathematics Education Lab Impact Living-Learning Center Academics Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dept. of Educational Leadership Dept. of Educational Psychology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MA in Teaching (MAT) MAT Admission Information MAT Degree Requirements / Coursework Certification Information (OPP) MAT Joint Programs Global Programs Undergraduate Study Abroad Graduate Study Abroad Explore our Programs Apply Tk20 Info Tk20 Login for Student/Faculty For Students For Cooperating Teachers For Faculty Outreach & Applied Research Partnerships Professional Development Schools The Co-Teach Model Partner School Districts Greater Waco Area Superintendents Impact Living-Learning Center Centers Baylor Center for School Leadership Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Clinic for Assessment, Research and Education (CARE) Baylor Autism Resource Clinic Grants & Initiatives Research Stories Professional Development for Educators Summer Literacy Institute Fall GT Conference Mathematics Teacher Academy Social Studies Academy Mathematics for Teachers of Early Learners (MTEL) Academies & Institutes of BCSL (Baylor Center for School Leadership) Baylor Beginning Teacher Institute Summer Superintendents Institute Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Faculty Meet the Faculty Faculty Positions Assistant Professor in Curriculum & Instruction Clinical Assistant Professor of ELementary Education Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor of School Psychology (Dallas campus) Assistant or Associate Professor of School Psychology (Waco campus) Grants & Initiatives Centers Students Prospective Undergraduates Why a BSEd at Baylor? Degree Planners & Certification Areas FAQs Visit the School of Education SOE Glossary Student Spotlights Transfer Students Impact Living-Learning Center Meet Dr. Neil Shanks Meet Your Major Podcast Prospective Graduate Students Advising and Degree Programs Schedule an Advising Appointment Meet the Advisors Degree Planners & Certification Areas Apply to Graduate Advising FAQs Equivalent Courses Tool for Baylor Baylor Undergraduate Catalog Give Feedback Certification Information Complaint Policy Office of Professional Practice (OPP) Certification Information Baylor University Technology Practices in Teaching and Learning Complaint Process Action Research Schedule A Visit Visits: Prospective Undergraduate Students Visits: Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships for Undergraduates Student Profiles Student Services Advising Learning Resources Center (LRC) Student Wellness Services Professional Meeting Support for Undergraduates Kappa Delta Pi Action Research Student Advisory Council Professional Licensure Information MEET the SOE podcast Alumni Alumni Awards Keep in Touch Alumni Profiles Update Your Information Impact Newsletter Online Homecoming Centennial News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Make a Gift Baylor>School of Education>Faculty>Faculty Positions>Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Working at Baylor (Benefits and other Information) APPLY QUICK FACTS: Department of Educational Leadership DOWNLOAD Position Description PDF Department of Educational Leadership See All School of Education Faculty Searches POSITION: Chair and Professor of Educational Leadership REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS: Doctorate in one of the disciplines represented in the department or a closely related field with academic credentials sufficient to merit the rank of full professor. Ability to advance the Christian mission of Baylor. Ability to advance Baylor’s Academic Strategic Plan, Illuminate, through strategic faculty and staff recruitment, retention, mentoring, and program development. Proven record as an academic leader with relevant administrative experience. Nationally recognized scholarship with a strong refereed research publication record. A proven track record of establishing internal and external partnerships through advocacy and commitment to collaborative and innovative approaches to advance teaching and research. Ability to foster a coherent and unified vision that recognizes excellence and promotes a collegial atmosphere of collaboration, achievement, and service to students, faculty, staff, alumni, and other constituents. Commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion among faculty, staff, and students. Commitment to work collaboratively with other School of Education leaders to help advance the school, department, and other individual academic units. PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: Evidence of excellence in teaching at the university level. Demonstrated success in obtaining external funding. Leadership in national and international professional organizations. Previous experience as a chair, program director, associate dean, or other academic leadership positions. RESPONSIBILITIES: The chair is the Department of Educational Leadership’s chief academic and administrative officer, overseeing the department’s research outcomes, educational programs, service, and outreach. The chair provides strategic leadership, insightful evaluation, and sound mentoring and professional development for faculty and staff. The chair is responsible for leading the department and enhancing its relationships with other departments in the School of Education and with the University at large. As a member of the school’s leadership team, the chair reports to the dean of the school. As such, the chair is responsible for: Developing and implementing plans for new programs or initiatives that enhance the department’s national recognition for high research activity. Promoting professional development and growth among faculty and staff. Overseeing course scheduling and instruction. Addressing student concerns alongside program directors. Administering the department budget. Overseeing all department business and supervising office staff. Managing department policy formation and implementation. Managing personnel matters, including conducting annual performance reviews for faculty and staff. Maintaining departmental governance and external communications. SALARY AND BEGINNING DATE: The salary will be commensurate with qualifications and professional experience. The anticipated date of appointment is June or July 2022. SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Applications will be accepted until the position is filled. To ensure full consideration, complete applications should be submitted by Nov. 1, 2021. APPLICATION PROCEDURE: Candidates should include the following in their application materials: (1) letter of interest that addresses the position qualifications and responsibilities, including a statement of personal faith and potential fit with Baylor’s Christian mission; (2) curriculum vitae; (3) transcripts documenting terminal degree; and (4) the EDL Application. Candidates who advance in the interview process may be asked to provide contact information for three-five professional references. If you have questions regarding the position, please contact search committee chair, Dr. Brooke Blevins, brooke_blevins@baylor.edu Materials must be submitted electronically to: http://apply.interfolio.com/93671 SCHOOL: Baylor’s School of Education celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2019 and has established a reputation for excellence in developing dynamic educators, leaders, and researchers through an intentional blend of theory and practice. With more than 60 full-time faculty members, the school’s growing research portfolio complements its long-standing commitment to excellence in teaching and student mentoring. The school boasts an array of excellent academic offerings housed in three academic departments: Educational Psychology, Curriculum & Instruction, and Educational Leadership. The school’s graduate enrollments continue to rise, with nearly 700 students pursuing advanced study and professional preparation through 17 different graduate degree options at the master’s, Ed.S., Ed.D., and Ph.D. levels. The School of Education is in a period of significant expansion and deepened impact through the production of meaningful, high-quality research and the preparation of outstanding leaders, teachers, and clinicians. Explore the School of Education through the website, including these links of interest: Department of Curriculum & Instruction Department of Educational Leadership Department of Educational Psychology Faculty Profiles Grants and Initiatives Graduate Programs in the SOE Undergraduate Teacher Education Majors News from the School of Education UNIVERSITY: Baylor University is a private Christian university and a nationally ranked research institution, consistently listed with highest honors among The Chronicle of Higher Education’s “Great Colleges to Work For.” The University is recruiting new faculty with a deep commitment to excellence in teaching, research and scholarship. Baylor seeks faculty who share in our aspiration to become a tier one research institution while strengthening our distinctive Christian mission as described in our academic strategic plan, Illuminate (baylor.edu/illuminate). The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 20,000 students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries, blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. As the world’s largest Baptist University, Baylor offers 126 baccalaureate programs, 79 master’s programs, 47 doctoral programs (including the JD), the Education Specialist program, and the Master of Laws program. The links below may offer insights about Baylor University: Overview Mission: Pro Ecclesia, Pro Texana Core Convictions Strategic Plan: Illuminate Student Life Research at Baylor Top-Tier Academics Athletic Excellence Awards & Rankings University Location and Directions Financial Highlights University Leadership: Office of the President Faculty Senate Human Resources* and information on Employee Benefits *For additional questions about Human Resources, please email askHR@baylor.edu Baylor University is a private not-for-profit university affiliated with the Baptist General Convention of Texas. As an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity employer, Baylor is committed to compliance with all applicable anti-discrimination laws, including those regarding age, race, color, sex, national origin, marital status, pregnancy status, military service, genetic information, and disability. As a religious educational institution, Baylor is lawfully permitted to consider an applicant’s religion as a selection criterion. Baylor encourages women, minorities, veterans and individuals with disabilities to apply. Faculty Meet the Faculty Faculty Positions Assistant Professor in Curriculum & Instruction Clinical Assistant Professor of ELementary Education Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor of School Psychology (Dallas campus) Assistant or Associate Professor of School Psychology (Waco campus) Grants & Initiatives Centers Apply Now Make a Gift Contact Us Visit Campus Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students School of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About At a Glance Contact the School Office of the Dean Dean's Biography Dean's Office Directory Dean's Office Directory Centennial Events Featured Profiles Impact Living-Learning Center Mission of the School of Education Outcomes Consumer Information Why Baylor School of Education Learning Spaces Marrs McLean Science Learning Resources Center (LRC) Location and Hours Check-Out Procedures Media Lab Mathematics Education Lab Impact Living-Learning Center Academics Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dept. of Educational Leadership Dept. of Educational Psychology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MA in Teaching (MAT) MAT Admission Information MAT Degree Requirements / Coursework Certification Information (OPP) MAT Joint Programs Global Programs Undergraduate Study Abroad Carpenter Embedded Global Classroom Baylor Education in Costa Rica Graduate Study Abroad Explore our Programs Apply Tk20 Info Tk20 Login for Student/Faculty For Students For Cooperating Teachers For Faculty Outreach & Applied Research Partnerships Professional Development Schools What is a PDS? The Co-Teach Model Partner School Districts Greater Waco Area Superintendents Impact Living-Learning Center Centers Baylor Center for School Leadership Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development University for Young People (UYP) UYP 2020 Fall GT Conference Super Saturdays Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Clinic for Assessment, Research and Education (CARE) Contact CARE Donate to CARE CARE Mission and Goals CARE Community Programs Skill Building Program Problem Behavior Support Clinic Feeding Support Program Baylor Autism Resource Clinic Grants & Initiatives Research Stories Professional Development for Educators Summer Literacy Institute Fall GT Conference Mathematics Teacher Academy 2019 MTA Facebook Album 2018 MTA Facebook Album 2017 MTA Facebook Album Social Studies Academy 2019 Social Studies Summer Summit Mathematics for Teachers of Early Learners (MTEL) Map Academies & Institutes of BCSL (Baylor Center for School Leadership) Baylor Beginning Teacher Institute Summer Superintendents Institute Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Faculty Meet the Faculty Faculty Positions Assistant Professor in Curriculum & Instruction Clinical Assistant Professor of ELementary Education Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor of School Psychology (Dallas campus) Assistant or Associate Professor of School Psychology (Waco campus) Grants & Initiatives Centers Students Prospective Undergraduates Why a BSEd at Baylor? Degree Planners & Certification Areas FAQs Visit the School of Education SOE Glossary Student Spotlights Transfer Students Impact Living-Learning Center Meet Dr. Neil Shanks Meet Your Major Podcast Prospective Graduate Students Advising and Degree Programs Schedule an Advising Appointment Meet the Advisors Degree Planners & Certification Areas Degree Planners 2019 - beyond Degree Planners - 2018 Apply to Graduate Advising FAQs Equivalent Courses Tool for Baylor Baylor Undergraduate Catalog Give Feedback Certification Information Complaint Policy Office of Professional Practice (OPP) Certification Information Testing for Certification (all programs) Criminal History Evaluations Texas Requirements & Process for Certification Baylor Process for Admittance to Teacher Education Program (undergraduate & MAT) Baylor Process for Admittance to Superintendent Certification Program (EdD in K-12) Baylor Process for Admittance to Principal Certification Program (MA in School Leadership) Benefits and Waivers for Military Service Members Baylor University Technology Practices in Teaching and Learning Complaint Process Action Research 2022 Action Research Symposium 2021 Action Research Program 2019 Action Research Monograph Schedule A Visit Visits: Prospective Undergraduate Students Visits: Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships for Undergraduates Student Profiles Student Services Advising Learning Resources Center (LRC) Student Wellness Services Professional Meeting Support for Undergraduates Kappa Delta Pi Action Research Student Advisory Council Professional Licensure Information MEET the SOE podcast Alumni Alumni Awards Keep in Touch Alumni Profiles Update Your Information Impact Newsletter Online Homecoming Centennial News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Make a Gift