Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery News & Ideas News & Ideas Marketing Menstruation Share This page S h a r e T h i s Share this page on Facebook F a c e b o o k Share this page on Twitter T w i t t e r Share this page on LinkedIn L i n k e d I n A cocurator of Out for Blood previews the exhibition, which charts the 100-year path from marriage hygiene to menstrual equity. Author By Lee Sullivan Published 02.25.2022 Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Copy Link Related Play video Out for Blood: Feminine Hygiene to Menstrual Equity (Exhibition Opening) Out for Blood: Feminine Hygiene to Menstrual Equity Boston Women’s Health Book Collective Records Like many of our Schlesinger Library colleagues, many women will remember hiding pads or tampons up their sleeves on the way to school or work bathrooms. Out for Blood: Feminine Hygiene to Menstrual Equity helps us understand why. The exhibition—which will be on display in the Schlesinger’s Lia and William Poorvu Gallery from April 4, 2022, to October 1, 2022—showcases items from the Library’s collections that tell the story of the selling of feminine hygiene, a euphemistic concept from the early 20th century that promoted the idea that women must maintain sanitary cleanliness inside and out. The Health and Hygiene Pamphlet Collection, a collection greatly strengthened by Marylène Altieri, the Library’s curator of books and printed materials, documents the various cures and products sold over the past 100 years and makes apparent the connection between the silence surrounding menstruation—still alive today—and the marketing of products such as early disposable menstrual pads, sold as a female hygienic secret in a plain wrapper with no mention of menstruation. As Library staff members informally discussed ideas for the exhibit, we shared our disbelief at what was once described as the need for “marriage hygiene” in the promotion of harsh antiseptics such as Zonite or Lysol to sanitize both vaginas and the household bathroom. Menstrual cleanliness, vaginal health, and various female cures could all be accomplished through the latest menstrual pad shape or absorbency power or deodorizing cleanser that would eliminate the worrisome possibility of leaks and odors. We all recognized the ubiquitous pamphlets depicting female social expectations of the 20th century, with pictures of young girls in jeans transformed at puberty into dainty young women in pastel dresses and the later pamphlets with girls in shorts next to soccer balls. View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 05 Slide left Slide right 01 / 05 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel Zonite: A New and Remarkable Discovery (New York: Zonite Products, ©1922). Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel War Against Germs (Boomfield, NJ: Lehn & Fink Products Corporation, [1940]), p. 10–11. Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel Cover of “You’re A Young Lady Now” Chicago, Ill.: International Cellucotton Products Co., ©1952–1953. Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel From Our Bodies, Our Selves (Boston, Mass.: New England Free Press, 1971), p. 9. Schlesinger Library Details Close detail panel We encourage visitors to bring a donation of a period product, which will be donated to Love Your Menses, a community-based organization based in Mattapan that is working to end period stigma and to make menstruation equitable for all through community conversations, evidence-based menstrual health education, youth programming, resource connection, and mentorship. In our planning discussions, we drew from Schlesinger collections that inform this history. The familiar “You’re A Young Lady Now” pamphlets give way to the feminism of the Boston Women’s Health Book Collective’s Our Bodies, Ourselves, a self-affirming guide to women’s bodies first published in 1970 and a leading presence in women’s health activism. The narrative deepens with the inclusion of Nan Robertson's writing on the emergence of toxic shock syndrome, the feminist poetry of Adrienne Rich and Pat Parker, and the art of Judy Chicago. Today's menstrual equity movement brings the exhibition to the present moment, highlighting the movement's work educating against silence and stigma and advocating for equitable access to safe products for all menstruators. Exhibition organizers: Lee Sullivan, cocurator Marylène Altieri, cocurator Erin LaBove, registrar Play video This video from period.org, titled "The Red Plague," calls for an end to euphemisms that contribute to period stigma. Another video from the organization will display in the Poorvu Gallery's nook. Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn News & Ideas Harvard Radcliffe Institute Awards 2022 Fay Prize for Outstanding Theses Harvard Radcliffe Institute Announces 2022–2023 Fellows Harvard’s Walking Tour App Highlights Overlooked History Some of Boston’s Legacy of Slavery is Hidden in Plain Sight The Prison as Petri Dish Zooming the Archives Constance Baker Motley, Then and Now In Process: Adrienne Kennedy Papers and Dorothy I. Height Papers Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College