Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati University Mission Assessment of Learning Accreditation Committees Timeline and Milestones HLC Communications Final HLC Assurance Argument Public Comment Institutional Research Specialized Accreditation HLC Frequently Asked Questions Explore the University of Cincinnati The Higher Learning Commission (HLC) Archive: 2009 HLC Accreditation Documents Resources University of Cincinnati Accreditation The University of Cincinnati (UC) has been accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) since 1919. The University of Cincinnati has been accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) since 1919. In September 2018, the University will undergo its reaffirmation of accreditation, a process that happens every ten years. What is Accreditation? Accreditation is the process whereby an outside organization certifies a college or university as meeting certain requirements of excellence. Accreditation is an important “stamp of approval,” accredited colleges and universities prove to their peers that they are deeply committed to educational quality and improvement. The designation serves as public recognition that an institution has met accepted standards of academic quality. What is the Higher Learning Commission (HLC)? The Higher Learning Commission (HLC) is an independent corporation that was founded in 1895 as one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States. HLC accredits degree-granting post-secondary educational institutions in the North Central region, which includes 19 states. The mission of the Higher Learning Commission is to "serve the common good by assuring and advancing the quality of higher learning." What is the Process for Accreditation? University of Cincinnati's review will be carried out through the HLC Open Pathway process. The University is currently accredited by the Higher Learning Commission with the most recent reaffirmation of accreditation received in 2009. This upcoming visit will serve as the reaccreditation and is conducted on a ten-year cycle. This process includes writing an Assurance Argument, demonstrating Federal Compliance, and hosting a site visit by a team of reviewers comprised of faculty and staff from other universities with similar missions. As part of the Assurance Review, the institution submits an Assurance Argument - along with materials of evidence - explaining how the institution complies with each Criterion and Core Component. The peer review team also uses the Assurance System to conduct its review of the materials. University of Cincinnati's HLC site visit is scheduled for September 24, 2018 - September 26, 2018. More details will be sent to faculty and staff in the coming months. For the timeline and milestones, click here. For more information about the Assurance Argument, click here. For more information about Federal Compliance, click here. For the Criteria of Accreditation, click here. When is the Site Visit? University of Cincinnati's HLC site visit is scheduled for September 24, 2018 - September 26, 2018. HLC visits usually take 1 1/2 days. Before the visit, the review team will have received the Assurance Argument and comments from the public. During the visit, the review team will meet with faculty, staff and students to look for evidence that the University of Cincinnati meets the five criteria of the Assurance Argument. This peer review process evaluates educational programs and services for quality and also assesses efforts in continuous quality improvement. Regional reaccreditation provides assurance to our stakeholders that the University of Cincinnati provides a high quality education and ensures that our students are eligible to receive federal financial aid. Where Can I Find More Information? If you have any questions regarding the upcoming HLC site visit for reaccreditation, contact Gigi Escoe, Vice Provost of Undergraduate Affairs. You can also visit the Office of the President and the Office of the Provost for updates on academic priorities and initiatives. Please check this site regularly for updates, draft documents, and information on upcoming public forums. Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.