Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Perkins School of Theology Faculty & Academics Perkins Intern Program The Perkins Intern Program The Perkins Intern Program is widely recognized as an exemplary program in preparing women and men for faithful leadership in Christian ministry. In the Perkins Internship, students integrate the knowledge and theological reflection disciplines learned in the classroom with the practical demands of providing faithful leadership within a congregation or agency. Students undertake internships with options as to type (full-time or part-time, church or agency), community (urban, suburban, rural), and denomination (in most cases in the student's own tradition). Intern Faculty members are committed to provide an internship that maximizes learning opportunities within a hands-on ministerial experience. Learning by listening and leading is the hallmark of the Perkins internship experience. While the intern carries out the tasks of ministry and systematically reflects on the experience, a trained Mentor Pastor provides professional and theological supervision; a Lay Teaching Committee gives regular feedback on performance; and the Internship Seminar led by the Intern Faculty and a mental health Consultant offers a time to learn practical tools and strategies for ministry, share ministry stories, and receive support and wisdom. My Perkins internship taught me the intricate details of what it means to be in effective ministry with and for those who are often relegated to the outskirts of society. Christian Watkins (M. Div. '19) Read More Today, I value structured mentorship and theological reflection which helps me a great deal in ministry as I work through a global pandemic…I am truly grateful for the Perkins Internship program. Lataya Simpson (M. Div. '18) Read More Clinical Pastoral Education has provided me with essential tools on how to better understand myself and people in need. Benjamin McCoy (M. Div. '20) Read More My mentor pastor helped me work on my confidence as a leader and a pastor. Madison Garcia (M. Div. '20) Previous Next pause play hide show Perkins Intern Program Internship Application Learning by Listening and Leading Full-Time and Part-Time Options Planning Ahead for Internship Intern Program FAQ Intern Program Faculty and Staff Intern Program Handbooks Intern Program Resources Clinical Pastoral Education Where are our 2020-21 Interns? An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share