Skip to main content Search Brookings Search About Us Press Room Experts Events Brookings Press WashU@Brookings Careers Newsletters Support Brookings Cart 0 Search Guidance for the Brookings community and the public on our response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) » Learn more from Brookings scholars about the global response to coronavirus (COVID-19) » The Brookings Institution The Brookings Institution The 100th Anniversary of the 17th Amendment (Direct Election of Senators): A Promise Unfulfilled? Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Print SMS Email More Reddit Climate AI Cities & Regions Global Dev Intl Affairs U.S. Economy U.S. Politics & Govt More Search Menu 0 Report The 100th Anniversary of the 17th Amendment (Direct Election of Senators): A Promise Unfulfilled? Wendy J. Schiller and Charles Stewart III Friday, May 24, 2013 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Print SMS Email More Reddit Download Download PDF File Download the paper Editor’s Note: This paper on the 100th annivesary of the adoption of the 17th Amendment is published by Governance Studies at Brookings and is Number 59 in the Issues in Governance Studies series. May 31st, 2013 marks the 100th anniversary of the adoption of the 17th Amendment, which ushered in direct elections of U.S. senators. The Framers established indirect elections – by state legislators – as a means of shielding the U.S. Senate from public influence and as such, allowed it to act as a counterweight to the directly elected House of Representatives. The impetus for changing the Constitution lay in the perceived corruption and inefficiency that marked indirect elections, and the 17th Amendment was part of the larger Progressive movement that called for more open, accessible, and responsive government. At the same time, states instituted direct primaries for federal and state offices, which presumably gave more power to the voters and less power to party elites. This paper is based on a larger project which investigates the dynamics of Senate elections in the indirect system using an original data set of roll call votes for U.S. senator taken in all state legislatures from 1871-1913. Wendy J. Schiller and Charles Stewart III find that while U.S. Senate elections in the indirect age were more conflicted than previously believed, there are strong parallels to today’s Senate in terms of the types of candidates that run for Senate, the role of money in elections, the role of partisan elections, and the nature of Senate ideological and legislative behavior. More broadly, Schiller and Stewart suggest that the 17th Amendment has failed to deliver on its promise, and has produced a Senate that is even less responsive to voters than it was under the indirect election system. Related Books Stalemate By Sarah A. Binder 2003 Taming Regulation By Robert T. Nakamura and Thomas W. Church 2003 Financial Privacy, Consumer Prosperity, and the Public Good By Fred H. Cate, Robert E. Litan, Michael Staten, and Peter J. Wallison 2003 W Wendy J. Schiller C Charles Stewart III Related Topics 117th U.S. Congress Courts & Law More 2022 Mar 14 Past Event The future of Section 230 reform 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM EDT FixGov Biden’s first-year judicial appointments—prospects for 2022 and beyond Russell Wheeler Wednesday, February 2, 2022 FixGov Biden’s first-year judicial appointments—impact Russell Wheeler Thursday, January 27, 2022 The Brookings Institution Facebook Find us on Facebook Twitter Find us on Twitter YouTube Find us on YouTube Podcast Listen to our Podcast Browse Newsletters Browse Newsletters RSS Subscribe to our RSS Languages Español 中文 عربي About Us Research Programs Find an Expert Careers Contact Terms and Conditions Brookings Privacy Policy Copyright 2022 The Brookings Institution Get politics and governing updates from Brookings Enter Email Download No thanks, just download the file. The Brookings Institution Close Trending Education Topics Climate AI Cities & Regions Global Dev Intl Affairs U.S. Economy U.S. Politics & Govt More About Us Press Room Experts Events Brookings Press WashU@Brookings Careers Newsletters Support Brookings Cart 0 Get daily updates from Brookings Enter Email Close Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.