Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Resources For Families Community of Learners Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series The Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series is a bimonthly series that aims to focus on important and timely topics in maternal and child health. All seminars will be held on Thursday at 4 p.m. ET unless otherwise noted. Registration is required. Upcoming Seminars No upcoming seminars at this time. Please check back later. Past Seminars Thursday, May 20, 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Method Tuuli, MD, MPH, MBA Dr. Tuuli is the incoming chair of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University and Women and Infants Hospital of Rhode Island. Dr. Tuuli is a board-certified obstetrician-gynecologist with a sub-specialty in maternal-fetal medicine. He comes to Brown from the Indiana University School of Medicine, where he was professor, vice chair for obstetrics and director of perinatal research in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Thursday, May 6, 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Why the First 1,000 Days Matter for Healthy Growth Elsie Taveras, MD, MPH Dr. Taveras is chief of the Division of General Pediatrics and executive director of the Kraft Center for Community Health at Massachusetts General Hospital. She is also Conrad Taff Professor of Pediatrics in the Field of Nutrition at Harvard Medical School and professor in the Department of Nutrition at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Thursday, April 22, 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. James McPartland, PhD Dr. McPartland is associate professor of child psychiatry and psychology, director of undergraduate studies, director of the Yale Developmental Disabilities Clinic and associate director of the Developmental Electrophysiology Lab at the Yale Child Study Center, and he is co-director of Team Science at the Yale Center for Clinical Investigation at the Yale School of Medicine. Dr. McPartland’s lab investigates autism spectrum disorder from a clinical neuroscience perspective. Thursday, April 15, 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. The Social Determinants of the Racial Disparity in Adverse Birth Outcomes: Zip Code Eclipses Genetic Code James Collins, MD Dr. Collins is medical director of the neonatal intensive care unit and associate director of the pediatric residency program at the Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children’s Hospital of Chicago and professor of pediatrics at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. Dr. Collins is a member of the Hassenfeld Institute’s advisory council. Thursday, March 25, 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Gestational Diabetes Testing: An Opportunity to Improve Population Health Erika Werner, MD, MS Dr. Werner is director of the Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine at Women & Infants Hospital and The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, where she is associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology. As of 2020, Dr. Werner is the acting director of the antenatal care unit at Women & Infants Hospital. She is a nationally recognized expert on gestational diabetes. She is a member of the Hassenfeld Institute's executive committee, and she co-leads the institute's Healthy Weight, Nutrition and Physical Fitness Initiative. Thursday, February 25, 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Kinder-ready clinics: Emerging models of how clinics can support parents in early-childhood development through low-cost, scalable interventions Susanna Loeb, PhD, and Lisa Chamberlain, MD, MPH Dr. Loeb is director of the Annenberg Institute for School Reform and professor of education and of international and public affairs at Brown University. Dr. Loeb is a member of the Executive Council of The Policy Lab at Brown. Dr. Chamberlain is associate professor of pediatrics, associate chair of policy and community and the Arline and Pete Harman Faculty Scholar at Stanford Children’s Hospital. She founded and co-directs the Stanford Pediatric Advocacy Program to train leaders in community pediatrics and advocacy. Thursday, February 11, 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Barriers to Medication Adherence in Asthma: The Importance of Culture and Context Elizabeth McQuaid, PhD, ABPP Dr. McQuaid is co-lead of the Hassenfeld Institute's Asthma Initiative, director of the Division of Clinical Psychology, director of the Clinical Psychology Internship Training Program and professor of psychiatry and human behavior and pediatrics in The Warren Alpert Medical School. Dr. McQuaid is also director of Child Psychology at Hasbro/RI Hospital. Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top