Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu African and African American Studies Major & Minor Internships & Careers Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact AAAS Resources FAQ Declare Your Major/Minor Community Links Civil Rights MuseumBurkle Estate/Slave HavenHistoric ElmwoodMemphis Heritage Web Research Links CIBS Take Action Explore Career Options View All Interdisciplinary Programs Contact Us Home AAAS Resources Frequently Asked Questions Why major in African and African American Studies? In 1901, Dr. W.E.B. DuBois noted that the twentieth century's most critical issue would continue to be the problem of the "color line," and "the relation of the darker to the lighter races of men in Asia and Africa, in America and the islands of the sea." DuBois' assessment continues to be true for the twenty-first century and is a key reason for majoring in African and African American Studies. African and African American Studies helps to develop an understanding of: the histories and cultures of African and African American peoples in the Diaspora; the impact of race and ethnicity in american society; how race and ethnicity have interacted with class, gender, sexuality and other factors to shape American institutions. What can I do with a major in African and African American Studies? African and African American Studies interdisciplinary structure exposes students to socio-cultural and historical perspectives that readily complement specialized knowledge in other liberal arts disciplines, and also professional fields such as, education, journalism, law, business management, city planning, international relations, psychology, public health, and social work. For examples of the types of careers available to African American Studies majors, check out these listings compiled by Robert Fikes, Jr., Librarian at San Diego State university. 222 Answers African and African American Studies can be taken either as a primary major or as one of two or three majors, in consultation with the director of the program. Appropriate majors to combine with African and African American Studies might include, but are not limited to History, English, Philosophy, Anthropology, Economics, Music, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology, Theater, Art History and Foreign Languages. Is African and African American Studies only for African and African American Students? While the focus of this program is on African and African American peoples, these courses are not limited to African and African American students. African and African American studies is for students of all national, ethnic and religious backgrounds. African and African American studies should be viewed in the context of world and human history. The historical and contemporary development of African and African American people, like that of people of European and Asian descent, is relevant and significant to human history in general. How do I declare a major in African and African American Studies at the University of Memphis? Visit the Undergraduate Advising Center, online or at 107 Scates Hall. Complete the Major/Minor Approval Form, which is available online or in the office. Schedule an advising appointment with: Dr. Ladrica Menson-Furr, AAAS Director, Assoc. Prof. - Department of English | 678-5455 | lmnsnfrr@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/1/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.