Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita Academics Research Patient Care Outreach Student Life About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Wichita Academics Academics M.D. Program-Wichita MPH Program Graduate Medical Education-Wichita Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita George J. Farha Medical Library Simulation Center JayDoc Community Clinic Research Research Office of Research-Wichita Center for Clinical Research-Wichita Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival Human Research Protection Program-Wichita Patient Care Patient Care Medical Practice Association & Clinics Affiliate KU Wichita Clinics JayDoc Community Clinic School-Based Health Care Outreach Outreach Community Programs Student Life Student Life The BEAT Academic & Student Affairs Healthy Hawks About About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita Pause Play What our students learn and experience on their way to an M.D. at KU School of Medicine-Wichita is critical for the health and well-being of this community and our state. And you. Why? Because we educate and train the people whose lives are dedicated to caring for and healing people in every part of our state. Our work in Wichita began in 1971, and in 1975, our first class of students graduated. In 2011, KU School of Medicine-Wichita expanded to a full, four-year campus, welcoming its first class of first-year medical students. For five decades, some 2,364 students from around the world have used Wichita as the launching pad for a career of service and proudly earned the honor of adding "M.D." to their names. Since the inception of Wichita Graduate Medical Education in 1988, 2,354 residents have completed their training through KU School of Medicine-Wichita. Meet one of our future doctors training here in Wichita and one of our faculty members: KU School of Medicine-Wichita Gabrielle Fangman KU School of Medicine-Wichita Dr. Samuel Ofei-Dodoo Wherever you are in Wichita, KU School of Medicine is there, too. At our 12 clinics, we offer a wide range of highly focused settings, including family medicine, internal medicine, pediatrics, psychiatry and behavioral sciences, and gastroenterology. To doctor under-served populations, KU School of Medicine-Wichita operates the JayDoc Community Clinic in partnership with the Guadalupe Clinic of the Diocese of Wichita. Staffed by volunteer medical students, pharmacy students, and resident doctors under faculty supervision, JayDoc sees about 500 patients every year. How has a KU doctor impacted your life? We know our students, residents, faculty and graduates are making a difference in Wichita and beyond every day, but we want to hear from you. Share Your Experience To learn more about KU School of Medicine-Wichita, go to wichita.kumc.edu. Sponsored in part by Kansas Health Foundation. KU School of Medicine-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.