Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Institutional Planning and Effectiveness Accreditations Accreditations National and Regional Accreditors SMU Programs & CIP Codes SACSCOC Policies Academic Program Review Common Curriculum Common Curriculum Assessment Rubrics Common Curriculum Assessment Approved Courses Assessment Instruments FAQs CC Assessment Sign-up Program Assessment Program Assessment University Support Programs Surveys Surveys Survey Procedures Survey Advisory Committee Survey Requests Resources Resources Contact Us ☰ Office of Institutional Planning and Effectiveness SMU Office of the Provost Institutional Planning and Effectiveness Institutional Planning and Effectiveness Simply stated, assessment tells the story of how well we do what we do. It is the process by which we measure the level of achievement at SMU. Assessment allows us to articulate student learning outcomes and/or program goals, collect data using varied assessment methods, and use the findings to improve student learning and all administrative, academic and student support services. It is an important driver of continuous improvement and data-based decision making for the institution. The Office of Institutional Planning and Effectiveness at SMU is charged with helping the university maintain compliance with all principles, requirements, standards, and policies of SACSCOC and the U.S. Department of Education. Assessment is “the systematic collection, review, and use of information about educational programs undertaken for the purpose of improving student learning and development.” SMU employs a three-pronged process that assesses our University Curriculum, Educational Programs, and University Support Programs. SACSCOC measures the institution’s performance on the Institutional Effectiveness component by observing how well we use our assessment findings to accomplish continual improvement. This repeated and full cycle of setting goals, assessing progress and strategic planning is absolutely integral to continued accreditation and key to continuous improvement in every area of SMU. Southern Methodist University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award baccalaureate, masters, doctorate, and professional degrees. Contact the Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Southern Methodist University. Reaffirmation of accreditation occurs every ten years, with a five-year interim review. SMU's last reaffirmation of accreditation was conducted in 2021. Related Links Student Achievement Approved Academic Programs Curricular Innovation & Policy Institutional Research Institutional Planning and Effectiveness Accreditations CC Student Learning Outcomes Academic Degree Programs Academic Program Review Assessment Resources Surveys CC Assessment Help Session SMU A&A Committee Resources Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share