Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home About Transportation & Parking Transportation & Parking Green and safe ways to travel around campus Indiana University preserves its green spaces, and as a result parking is limited on campus. IU students manage very well without cars—most walk, bike, or ride the bus to campus. You'll find many safe and easy ways to get around. Sustainable options The IU Office of Sustainability is dedicated to reducing car traffic and emissions. You can partipate by adopting green modes of travel and getting involved with sustainable transportation projects.Learn about sustainable campus transportation Late-night safe rides Take care of yourself and take advantage of free safe ride services that run after dark.Learn about safe rides Visiting IU? Learn about parking and traveling to and from campus. Visit the IU Visitor Information Center Learn about IU visitor parking Take the bus The IU Campus Bus Service provides routes that serve all parts of campus. Rides are free for IU students. The campus fleet is fully accessible—all buses are equipped with a kneeling feature and a wheelchair ramp. You can track the buses in real time.Learn more about the Campus Bus Service IU students, staff, and faculty ride for free on Bloomington Transit, our city bus system. The buses offer routes to and from campus, and around Bloomington.Learn more about Bloomington Transit Welcome to Biketown, U.S.A. To say we are a bike-loving community is an understatement. Biking is nearly a religion at IU, and we have the world’s greatest college bicycle race—the Little 500—to prove it. It’s also our favorite green way to get where we’re going. Take a taxi or a shuttle Taxi services Bloomington is small enough that you won’t break the bank taking the occasional taxi from any point A to any point B. And you can always share rides with friends for a less expensive, greener option. Red Tire Taxi: 812-250-8887 or 812-322-3949 Yellow Cab Taxi: 812-339-9744 Uber: UberX or UberXL economy options with seating for up to five people Shuttles Shuttle services can take you to and from the Indianapolis International Airport, a 50-mile drive from campus. Go Express Travel also runs between the IU Bloomington and IUPUI campuses. Classic Touch Limousine Service: 812-339-0082 Go Express Travel Bloomington Shuttle: 800-589-6004 Catch-A-Ride A safe and convenient option for IU students who hail from Chicago, South Bend or northwestern Indiana, this service is available during holidays, IU breaks, and select weekends.Visit the Catch-A-Ride Transportation Service site Parking on and near campus If you must drive to campus often, you’ll want to get a parking permit. There is no free parking on or near campus, and at peak times of the day and year, be prepared to hunt for the closest spaces.Find IU parking lots Don’t gamble—you will be ticketed for parking in an IU lot without a parking permit. The City of Bloomington will also ticket you for not paying the meters on city streets near campus, unless you have a city parking permit. Learn more about your parking permit options. Visit IU Parking Operations Visit City of Bloomington Parking Services Lock your keys in your car? If you’re parked in an IU lot and your battery dies, you lock your keys in your car, or you get a flat tire, the IU Motorist Assistance Program is here to help. Call 812-855-9849 from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., Monday through Friday. History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University