Skip to main content Skip to main navigation About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories About Baylor A Private Christian University and a Nationally Ranked Research 1 Institution. Baylor provides a vibrant campus community for more than 20,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Watch Video Learn More Values and Vision The mission of Baylor University is to educate men and women for worldwide leadership and service by integrating academic excellence and Christian commitment within a caring community. Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Christian Commitment Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Our Stories The Baylor story consists of many chapters. Read how we integrate science and faith, calling and vocation, and service and leadership. May 20, 2022 A Commitment to Excellence President Livingstone's contract extended ten years by Baylor Board of Regents. Read More May 20, 2022 Christ-Centered Diversity Dean Mazumder and Associate Dean for Diversity and Inclusion, Cindy Wu, explain Christ-centered diversity through scriptures. Read More May 20, 2022 Honoring the Fallen Lampposts across campus recognize Bears whose who gave all in service to our nation. Read More May 20, 2022 Registration Now Open Discover the incredible opportunities and experiences that await you as a Baylor Bear at Orientation and Line Camp. Read More Discover more stories Facts & Figures Nestled along the banks of the Brazos River in Waco, Texas, Baylor provides many educational and research opportunities across various disciplines. Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Our Campus A campus majestic in beauty, Baylor's picturesque setting serves as a beautiful backdrop of our students' diverse and shared experiences. The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Our Leadership Charged with guiding Baylor's mission, our leadership upholds Baylor's heritage, tending to its present, honoring its past, and molding its future. Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Our Heritage A humble college founded before Texas was a state, Baylor now stands as one of the premier institutions of higher education in the world. History Historical Timeline Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Connect with Us Develop relationships and stay abreast of Baylor news and events through Facebook, Twitter, Baylor Proud and Baylor Magazine. Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear About Baylor Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Ask Baylor Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories