Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Theater and Community Engagement Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Theater and Community Engagement Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Theater and Community Engagement Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Theater and Community Engagement Undergraduate Certificate Merge the performing arts and real-world topics through the Theater and Community Engagement Undergraduate Certificate in Temple University’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. You’ll learn how to effectively use theater to examine complex issues in society. Utilize the art and creativity of theater to address problems that impact individuals and their entire communities, all while providing important arts access to underserved communities. Some of the topics explored through the coursework include bullying, poverty and its effect on class structure, race as it relates to opportunities, and sexuality and longstanding gender roles and norms. This four-course, 12-credit certificate is offered on Temple’s Main Campus, and it is open to undergraduates currently enrolled in a degree program at the university. Based in Philadelphia, students in the program can access the city’s robust diversity and unique societal challenges to inform their work. The Theater and Community Engagement Undergraduate Certificate program is ideal for students seeking experience in community theater and it prepares them for graduate-level coursework. Classes & Curriculum Students interested in the Theater and Community Engagement Undergraduate Certificate will take the required course Community Engaged Theater. Students also select three elective courses, which include Classics in African-American Theater, Performance Art, Poetry as Performance, Poetic Ethnography, Queer Theater, Theater of Protest or Women in Theater. Learn more about the coursework for the Theater and Community Engagement Undergraduate Certificate. Related Graduate Degrees Theater-Acting MFA Theater-Directing MFA Theater-Playwriting MFA Vocal Arts MM* Performance MM* Performance DMA* *Boyer College of Music & Dance Internships and Opportunities The Theater Department has forged strong relationships with theaters and dance institutions throughout Philadelphia, providing many internship opportunities for students. Theater students have interned with the Arden Theatre, Lantern Theater, McCarter Theater, Philadelphia Theatre Company, Prince Music Theater, The Lighting Practice, Walnut Street Theatre and Wilma Theater. Learn more about career, internship and other opportunities. School Partnerships & Associations In addition to productive, internship-generating relationships with theatrical institutions, the Theater Department also maintains memberships with the Association for Theatre in Higher Education, National Association of Schools of Theatre, University Resident Theatre Association and U.S. Institute for Theatre Technology. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Additional Information Our Academic Advisors The School of Theater, Film and Media Arts academic advisors will help you chart your course through your academic program. Sachiko Nakazato is the academic advisor for the undergraduate certificate in Theater and Community Engagement. Phone: 215-204-3437 Email: sachiko.nakazato@temple.edu Leanna Arnold is the senior academic advisor for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: leanna.arnold@temple.edu Program Contact Kimmika Williams-Witherspoon is the faculty contact and associate professor of Theater Studies & Playwriting. Phone: 215-204-8417 Email: kwilli01@temple.edu Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. CA-TCEN-CERT Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Theater and Community Engagement Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info