Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date February 8, 2022 2022-02-08 Media Contact Maggie Spear [email protected] 401-863-7287 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Senior history, public policy concentrator to represent Brown on ‘Jeopardy!’ college championship A nightly viewer of the iconic trivia show since childhood, Brown senior Max Niles will try his hand starting Friday, Feb. 11, competing against 35 students from across the nation. Brown senior Max Niles will represent Brown University in the "Jeopardy!" National College Championship, with his first appearance airing Friday, Feb. 11. Photos courtesy of ABC/Casey Durkin. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — As the iconic “Jeopardy!” quiz show’s College Championship kicks off on Tuesday, Feb. 8, another accomplished undergraduate from Brown will add to the list of students who have represented the University on the national trivia stage, often with winning results. Max Niles, a Brown senior who will graduate in May with a bachelor’s degree in history and public policy, said he’d taken a couple of “Jeopardy!” trivia tests in the past, and nothing ever came of it. But four weeks after completing a 50-question online test during the Fall 2020 semester, he was invited to compete in a live game held over Zoom, where he did well enough to be added to the show’s contestant pool. In October 2021, Niles was selected as a contestant, and by November, he was on his way to Los Angeles to film two weeks’ worth of College Championship episodes. “It sunk in in so many different ways,” Niles said. “It was like, ‘Oh, I’m on the plane to L.A.! Oh, I’m on the ‘Jeopardy!’ stage! Oh, I just hit the buzzer — this is real!’” Niles is the first to admit he isn’t an across-the-board trivia aficionado. He didn’t play much trivia growing up, nor did he find his community at Brown by way of trivia nights. He is a self-proclaimed “Jeopardy!” nerd, though — Niles said he was raised on a steady diet of dinners spent with his mother and grandparents watching “Nightly News,” immediately followed by “Jeopardy!” “I mean, we watched it every single night,” Niles said. “I loved it. And after playing along with my family, I thought, ‘Hey, I’m actually pretty good at this!’ I guess I’m very good at remembering random facts.” Just like the random facts he’s committed to memory, Niles’ activities at Brown cover a wide range of topics. He’s worked as the programming coordinator for the Ivy Film Festival and as a volunteer with the Brown Elementary Afterschool Mentoring program, spending many afternoons tutoring young students — perhaps even a “Jeopardy!” protégé in the making — at William D’Abate Elementary School in Providence’s Olneyville neighborhood. He has served also as a member of Housing Opportunities for People Everywhere, a student-run Swearer Center program that combats homelessness. With his focus in history and public policy, Niles hopes to learn from the past to inform the future, perhaps working to solve housing and urban issues through political consulting. A Washington, D.C., native, Niles first visited Brown as a high school junior, when he spent the late summer touring colleges and universities across the country. His first impression of campus stuck with him, and he said the moment he left Providence, he knew he’d have to come back. “I saw so many excited students talking about the classes they had just left,” Niles said. “They were deeply engaged, incredibly smart — but nonchalant about their smartness — and so, so caring.” Niles is among a small number of Brown community members to appear on “Jeopardy!” but he’s not the first. Most recently, Dhruv Gaur — now a research data analyst at Brown’s Population Studies and Training Center —represented the University as a first-year student in 2018, ultimately capturing the College Championship. Though Niles can’t share the results of his November taping sessions, all will be revealed on Friday, Feb. 11, when his first College Championship appearance — hopefully of many — with host Mayim Bialik airs. Tags The College Related news: News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Senior history, public policy concentrator to represent Brown on ‘Jeopardy!’ college championship Open details for Senior history, public policy concentrator to represent Brown on ‘Jeopardy!’ college championship Bookmark this Page