Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close The Future of Work In Focus The Future of Work Mental Health Climate Solutions Celebrating the Class of ’22 The future of work The global pandemic changed the way we work and how our workplaces function. Our experts investigate what changes may be here to stay and what else to expect in the future. The future is calling Work is beginning to look very different across all fields and around the globe. Offices Will we all go back? Will they ever be the same? Learn about the future of offices Teachers What can we learn from the pandemic? Learn about the future of schools Internships How can we make them more equitable? Learn about the future of internships Physicians What will digital health care look like? Learn more about the future of health care Farmers Can technology help farmers connect to their customers? Learn more about the future of farms Workspaces Is the open office a thing of the past? Learn more about the future of workspaces Job skills Which skills have staying power in this rapidly changing market? Learn more about the skills gap Global talent How do you attract talent from around the world? Learn more about global workforces Legal professionals Will online litigation help our clogged courts? Learn more about online courts What is “The Great Resignation”? Harvard economist Lawrence Katz explains some of the factors that led to the highest quit rate in US history. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Learn more Well-being at work Business owners, employees, and researchers are looking at ways to make workplaces safer and healthier. Predictable scheduling Requiring more notice in scheduling for hourly workers results in more predictable shifts and increased stability for workers, which also leads to improvements in worker well-being, sleep quality, and economic security. Read the Kennedy School article Air quality The air quality in an office can have significant impacts on employees’ cognitive function, including response times and ability to focus, and it may also affect their productivity, according to new research. Read the Harvard Chan School article Worker safety and health COVID-19 forced companies to act quickly and decisively to keep workers safe, and employers have had to adapt new business processes and address existing structures that are lacking. Read the Harvard Chan School article Flexibility While working from home, employees have enjoyed an unprecedented sense of agency and autonomy. Contrary to some expectations—but consistent with years of research—that flexibility has actually spurred worker productivity to improve. Read the Harvard Business School article How can AI help you? AI and automation are already streamlining some industries, but we still don’t understand all of the benefits and dangers. Explore the topics ↴ Explore the topics ↴Ethical concerns of AIHelping humans understand robotsMore intelligent medicineAI and the arts AI is already essential in health care, banking, retail, and manufacturing, but its ethical implications are still being unpacked. Learn more Human accountability and machine transparency are necessary in the development of artificial intelligence. Learn more Barbara Grosz has spent her career working to make human-computer interactions as fluent as human-to-human interaction. Learn more Meet the School of Engineering alum working to design better robot and AI collaborators by enabling machines to more effectively explain their behavior to humans. Learn more How does the field of medicine move forward to harness the promise of AI? How does it eliminate the perils posed by its suboptimal design or inappropriate use? Learn more Artificial intelligence may seem objective, but it’s subject to human biases. Learn more Artificial intelligence in medicine may foster more personalized treatment, increase access to care, and cut red tape, but risks still abound. Learn more Harvard's AI+Art project aims to get people thinking about how artificial intelligence may impact our lives in the future. Learn more Krzysztof Gajos, Gordon McKay Professor of Computer Science answers the question: When will a robot write a novel? Learn more Zoom out For a broader view on workplace innovations, explore the work of our experts from a variety of institutes and centers including: The Project on Workforce GrowthPolicy Labor Organization Innovation Initiative Harvard i-lab Center for Work, Health, & Well-being Corporate Responsibility Initiative Science Engineering Workplace Project Labor and Worklife Program Clean Slate for Worker Power Working Knowledge The Institute for Strategy and Competitiveness Harvard Business School Managing the future of work Co-chaired by William R. Kerr and Joseph B. Fuller, this project explores solutions and adaptations to rapid technological change, shifting global product and labor markets, evolving regulatory regimes, outsourcing, and the fast emergence of the gig economy. Learn more from the Business School Explore the podcast Harvard Kennedy School Reimagine the world of work Experts investigate ways to help workers gain new skills, get companies to drop outdated practices, and other forward thinking ideas. Learn more from the Kennedy School Watch the talk Graduate School of Education Reshaping work Experts discuss how the pandemic is altering jobs and careers and how education can respond. Learn more from the School of Education Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00