Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Instruction and Curriculum Leadership About Programs Students Faculty News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact ICL Programs Undergraduate Majors and Minors Undergraduate Degrees ABA Undergrad Minor K-12 Education Undergrad Minor Youth Development Undergrad Major Applied Behavior Analysis ABA MS and EdDABA Undergrad Minor Early Childhood Elementary Education Instruction and Curriculum Instructional Design & Technology Literacy School Library Specialist Secondary Education Special Education Graduate Certificates Urban EducationIDTLiteracy Leadership & CoachingAutism StudiesSchool Library Information SpecialistSTEM Teacher LeadershipSpecial Education Comprehensive Program Rankings Take Action ICL Degrees Apply Now ICL Advising Contact Us Home ICL Programs Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs College of Education undergraduate programs are housed in the Instruction and Curriculum Leadership department. If you are interested in teaching or working with youth, the COE has a degree program for you. If you would like to teach in preK-5th grade or Secondary Math, visit the Office of Teacher Education and Clinical Practice page> to learn more about teaching licensure. If you would like to teach 6th-12th grade, learn more about the new K-12 Education Minor>. If you are interested in working with youth in a non-profit setting, learn more about the new Youth Development concentration>. If you are a current COE undergraduate looking for your advisor, visit the Office of Teacher Education and Clinical Practice page>. River City Partnership 180 days - one school year - is a lifetime and can make a huge impact on the life of a student. Inspire the Memphis community by becoming a River City Teacher Scholar for the College of Education at the UofM. The River City Partnership is a collaboration between UofM College of Education, Shelby County Schools, Achievement School District and local charter schools. Our program prepares local, future educators to practice and promote social justice, equity and inclusion as a teacher in Memphis urban schools. The River City Partnership provides scholars with a unique cohort model, scholarship opportunities, support and mentorship during classes and after graduation and coursework focusing on teaching in Memphis. Learn more on the River City Partnership page>. COE Majors and Minors Teaching All Learners: Elementary and Special Education The Teaching All Learners (TALN) major contains three parts. First, the General Education component contains introductory level courses in the liberal arts and sciences. Second, the Professional Education courses are essential for teacher all grade levels general curriculum. Third, the Special Education component contains advanced courses and experiences that lead to specialized professional knowledge unique to teaching students with disabilities. The TALN Program leads to dual licensure in Special Education Interventionist (K-8) OR Interventionist (6-12) AND an Elementary Education (K-5) classroom. Important Links Elementary Education program page> Teaching All Learners (TALN) program of studies> TALN advising and teaching licensure> Human Development and Learning: Early Childhood Education The Early Childhood Education (ECED) program aims to actively engage and thoughtfully and rigorously prepare early childhood educators to develop culturally responsive, anti-bias, and anti-racist teaching practices toward becoming a social advocate for educational equity in the primary grades (Pre-K-3rd grade) and beyond. Through coursework, field experiences, and student teaching (Residency I and II), undergraduate and graduate students gain knowledge, skills, dispositions, and strategies needed to advance equity and support young children’s learning across developmental stages (birth to age eight) within diverse contexts, leading to initial Pre-K-3 Tennessee State Teacher Certification. The ECED program encourages and supports the development and use of culturally inclusive and culturally sustaining critical theories, perspectives, and practices to advance contextually appropriate practices developed in collaboration with local cultures and communities. Important Links Early Childhood Education program page> Human Development and Learning (HDVL) program of studies> HDVL Advising and teaching licensure > Integrative Studies: Secondary Math, Youth Development or Educational Careers Secondary Math Concentration The ICL Department offers an Integrative Studies, Secondary Math Concentration degree: The objectives for a B.S.Ed. in Integrative Studies/Secondary Math are: (a) to understand how learning occurs, how students construct knowledge and acquire skills, and knows how to provide learning opportunities that support their intellectual, social, and personal development; (b) preparing, through intensive clinical experiences, highly qualified math teachers grades 6-12. In this program, you will: Gain a deeper understanding of the mathematics you will teach Work collaboratively with mathematics and education faculty Learn how to teach effectively in urban schools Spend a full year “in residence” in a local school (observing, tutoring, and teaching) Earn a teaching license upon successful completion of the program Important Links Secondary Education program page> Secondary Math program of studies> Secondary Math Advising and teaching licensure> Youth Development Concentration The Integrative Studies: Youth Development Undergraduate concentration (Bachelor of Science in Education) is an authentic, cutting-edge program designed collaboratively with the COE's non-profit partners. This non-licensure program will provide students who are interested in serving in non-profits and educational support structures with a dedicated course of study, practicum, internship and a path to a career. Students in the Integrative Studies: Youth Development concentration will take specialized courses focused on diversity, equity and inclusion and gain real-world experience to work with youth in non-school settings. Visit the Youth Development page to learn more>. Educational Careers Concentration Students who are interested in working in education or working with youth but are not interested in earning teaching licensure can major in Integrative Studies: Educational Careers. The Integrative Studies Educational Careers concentration, a non-licensure concentration, does not require admittance to the Teacher Education Program. Visit the Educational Careers catalog page to learn more> COE Minors Applied Behavioral Analysis (ABA) Minor ICL offers a 100% online minor (18 hours) for Undergraduate students in Applied Behavior Analysis. This accelerated minor prepares students to apply for certification as a Registered Behavior Technician (RBT). This minor pairs well with majors in Teaching All Learners, Psychology, Social Work and Child Development, as well as other majors that work with children and adults with autism, behavior delays, or social communication delays. Learn more about the ABA Minor>. K-12 Education Minor The K-12 Education Minor allows non-education majors, especially those in the College of Arts and Sciences, to complete a partial program of study that will lead to teaching licensure in Tennessee, as opposed to beginning your teacher preparation coursework after undergraduate graduation. The 6 course (18 credit hour) minor allows non-education majors to enroll in courses that will prepare you for the classroom. Learn more about the K-12 Education minor> Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.