Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF BUILT ENVIRONMENTS BUILT ENVIRONMENTS BUILT ENVIRONMENT Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 B E 200 Introduction to Built Environments (3) VLPA/I&S Introduction to critical issues related to the planning, design, construction, and use of our built environments and the roles of the various disciplines contained within the College of Built Environments. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: B E 200 B E 210 A Global History of the Built Environment I (5) VLPA/I&S V. PRAKASH This course critically examines built environments over time using a global perspective beginning with First Societies through 1st millennium CE. The global perspective encourages thinking about history in a transnational and transgeographical manner. The course is broadly structured around the concept of "time cuts" that allow for comparisons across regions and cultural formations. Prerequisite: There are no prerequisites; recommended: None are required. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: B E 210 B E 211 A Global History of the Built Environments II (5) VLPA/I&S V. PRAKASH This course critically examines built environments over time using a global perspective beginning 1st millennium CE to the present. The global perspective encourages thinking about history in a transnational and transgeographical manner. The course is broadly structured around the concept of "time cuts" that allow for comparisons and connections across regions and cultural formations. Prerequisite: There are no prerequisites; recommended: None are required. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: B E 211 B E 220 Cities, Health, and Well-being (3) I&S This course analyzes the ways urban built environments bear on physical and mental health and well-being (material-economic resources, security, social relations, open choices). It focuses on how the practices and knowledge of built environment professions and disciplines interact with public health, engineering, and the sciences to understand and change cities. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: B E 220 B E 230 Living with Disasters: Design for Resilience (5) NW/I&S D. Abramson Studies types of environmental hazards (e.g., earthquakes, flooding, climate change) and the ways people can build more resilient communities. Pre-major introduction to BE disciplines: architecture, landscape architecture, urban planning, construction management. Students apply concepts in a Seattle-based scenario project. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: B E 230 B E 405 Built Environments Studio (6, max. 18) An intense learning experience in which students are assigned to interdisciplinary, collaborative teams to develop specific approaches to addressing complex issues related to built environments. Focus and format vary with the interdisciplinary team of instructors. View course details in MyPlan: B E 405 B E 498 Special Projects (1-12, max. 12) View course details in MyPlan: B E 498 B E 505 Built Environments Studio (6, max. 18) Provides an intense learning experience in which students are assigned to interdisciplinary, collaborative teams to develop specific approaches to addressing complex issues related to built environments. Focus and format vary with the interdisciplinary team of instructors. View course details in MyPlan: B E 505 B E 550 Colloquium-Practicum on Research-Practice and Teaching-Learning (1, max. 6) A synthetic and interdisciplinary forum for the presentation and peer critique of faculty and student research and practice projects, and a venue for pedagogical issues and skills for effective teaching and learning. View course details in MyPlan: B E 550 B E 551 The Contemporary Built Environment (3) Covers major or landmark cases of complex built environment projects, emphasizing the multiple dimensions involved and their interconnections. View course details in MyPlan: B E 551 B E 552 Theories of Knowledge and the Built Environment (3) Systematic examination of alternative epistemological frameworks applicable to studying the built environment; examinations of their differences and similarities and of the possibility of a comprehensive, pluralistic approach. View course details in MyPlan: B E 552 B E 553 Ethics in Practice, Research, and Teaching (3) Preparation for ethical challenges facing professional practice, research, and teaching in the built environment. Coverage of general and professional ethics, and examination of principles and rules and application through case studies. View course details in MyPlan: B E 553 B E 597 Directed Readings (*, max. 30) Intensive reading in the literature of the built environment, directed by members of doctoral Supervisory Committee. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B E 597 B E 598 Special Topics (1-6, max. 15) Systematic study of specialized subject matter. Topics vary depending on current interest and needs, and are announced in the preceding quarter. View course details in MyPlan: B E 598 B E 600 Independent Study or Research (*) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B E 600 B E 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: B E 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022