Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Biology with Teaching Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Biology with Teaching Major Apply Visit Request More Info Biology with Teaching Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Biology with Teaching Major Graduate with the knowledge to teach secondary school biology with the Bachelor of Science in Biology with Teaching in Temple’s College of Science and Technology. Intended to prepare Biology Majors for a career in STEM education, the 124-credit-hour Biology with Teaching degree is available through Temple’s interdisciplinary TUteach program. Study the principles that regulate living organisms, from molecules and cells to individuals and ecosystems. Gain the expertise to teach these principles to secondary school students. Biology with Teaching The Biology with Teaching degree prepares you to teach secondary school biology with firsthand experience in the classroom through student-teaching apprenticeships in Philadelphia district schools. TUteach coursework helps you create inquiry-based lesson plans, develop impactful teaching skills, manage a classroom, and prepare to work in underrepresented and diverse communities. Because TUteach includes classes in both the College of Science and Technology and the College of Education and Human Development, you’ll graduate with a solid grounding in STEM education. Coursework focuses on designing activities and evaluating their outcomes, participating in field work specific to STEM, and understanding how students learn and retain information. The curriculum provides the basis for expertise across disciplines such as cell biology, ecology, microbiology, molecular biology and neurobiology. Study life and living organisms, including their chemical composition and development, in the Biology Department’s state-of-the-art labs. You’ll learn to critically evaluate experimental data, become familiar with laboratory procedures and have opportunities to participate in research. Upon graduation, you’ll be prepared to use this background in biology to help students in different grade levels and with a variety of learning styles form an understanding of, and an interest in, biology. You’ll become an integral part of their STEM education experience, helping foster their long-term interest in the sciences. Since the state of Pennsylvania has specific candidacy requirements, TUteach advisors will counsel you on how to successfully submit the documents necessary to become a candidate for the Pennsylvania Department of Education PRAXIS certification exam. The required PRAXIS exam assesses the skills and knowledge of all individuals preparing to become teachers for kindergarten through grade 12. The PRAXIS exam you take depends on the state in which you want to become licensed and the discipline you want to teach. Temple TUteach TUteach is a collaboration between the College of Science and Technology and the College of Education and Human Development. TUteach integrates a secondary school (grades 7 through 12) mathematics or science teaching track so you can become eligible to take the Praxis certification exam upon graduation. Learn more about the TUteach program degrees. The TUteach coursework also incorporates the fundamentals of biology. Students will learn the biological functions of molecules; important concepts related to biology, cell biology, molecular biology and genetics; and research methods used in biology. Graduates can pursue careers teaching biology in private and public schools, teach abroad or enter graduate degree programs in STEM, or go on to work in curriculum development and research. Classes & Curriculum As a student in the Biology program, you will broaden your knowledge with a combination of required and elective courses. The curriculum for the Biology with Teaching BS includes 6 required Biology courses; 7 required College of Education and Human Development courses; 11 Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics courses; and 2 writing-intensive courses. Learn more about required and elective courses in the Biology with Teaching Major. Related Graduate Degrees Accomplished Teaching MSEd Biology MS Biology PhD Higher Education MEd* Middle Grades and Special Education MEd* Secondary Education MEd* Secondary Education and Special Education MEd* Urban Education MEd* Urban School Leadership MEd* Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing College Access and Success* Digital Education Leadership* Diversity Leadership* Institutional Effectiveness* Student Affairs Leadership* Teaching in Higher Education* * College of Education and Human Development TUteach offers degrees in all natural sciences. In addition to the Biology with Teaching Major, majors are Biology with Teaching, Chemistry with Teaching, Earth and Space Science with Teaching, General Science with Teaching, Mathematics with Teaching, Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching, Mathematics and Technology with Teaching (includes four Engineering courses), and Physics with Teaching. Learn more about each major's academic programs. Accelerated Programs +1 Bachelor-Master Program +1 Bachelor-Master Programs The College of Science and Technology offers +1 Accelerated Bachelor-Master Programs. Students can earn a BA or BS and, at the end of the fifth year, an MA or MS. Coursework is completed over five years instead of taking the usual six-year course of study. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s +1 Bachelor-Master programs. Master of Education Biology with Teaching Major / Master of Education You can also earn a Biology with Teaching Major from the College of Science and Technology and a Master of Education from the College of Education and Human Development. Qualified students can earn a master’s degree in five years, instead of taking the usual six. Learn more about pursuing this accelerated degree. Dual Bachelor-Master Program Dual Bachelor-Master Program for International Students International students have the opportunity to earn a bachelor’s degree from their home institution and a graduate degree from Temple over five years. This multidisciplinary program includes undergraduate- and graduate-level coursework at Temple. Students are prepared for professional careers in today’s global economy and job market. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s Dual Bachelor-Master Program for international students. 3+4 Accelerated Program 3+4 Accelerated Programs The College of Science and Technology offers 3+4 Accelerated Degree Programs in a seven-year course of study, instead of the usual eight years. Qualifying undergraduate students can obtain the Biology with Teaching Major from CST and a Doctor of Medicine in Dentistry from the Kornberg School of Dentistry, Doctor of Podiatric Medicine from the School of Podiatric Medicine, Doctor of Medicine from the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, or Doctor of Pharmacy Medicine from the School of Pharmacy. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s 3+4 Accelerated Degree Programs. 3+3 Accelerated Program 3+3 Accelerated Program Qualified students can earn the Biology with Teaching Major and a Doctor of Physical Therapy from the College of Public Health over a five-year course of study, instead of taking the usual six years. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology's 3+3 Accelerated Degree Program. Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program The College of Science and Technology Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program is designed for students planning to apply to medical school or pursue other health-related professions. The program offers the following two tracks. The Basic Core in Health Sciences is intended for professionals who need the required science courses to apply to medical school. The Advanced Core in Health Sciences is a program for current students who have met the premedical requirements and who seek advanced science coursework. Both tracks include classes in the Lewis Katz School of Medicine and the College of Science and Technology. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations in the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with professionals or scientists in your field of study, and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 prehealth clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance your academic study and social life by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Students pursuing a Biology degree may be interested in the following clubs and organizations. The Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields. The Biology Society helps students find and understand their career opportunities in the field. Leadership, Education and Development in Science empowers Philadelphia middle school students to take an interest in STEM through mentor-led science experiments. The Temple University Forensics Association helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. The Undergraduate Neuroscience Society welcomes students interested in neuroscience to meet and discuss related topics, as well as find volunteer and career opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate new student orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides guidance postgraduation, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development, academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. TUteach Advisors All TUteach majors have advisors to help them navigate their time in the program. Each semester, your advisor will assist you with finding internship opportunities, fulfilling curriculum requirements and submitting the required documents to become a candidate for taking the Praxis exam. Program Contact Biology Department Contact George Mehler, faculty advisor and assistant professor in the Department of Mathematics, is the faculty program coordinator for the Biology with Teaching Major. Phone: 215-204-4074 Email: george.mehler@temple.edu TUteach Program Contacts Kristina Najera is the assistant dean of teacher education. Email: knajera@temple.edu Kenneth Ruff is an advisor for TUteach. Phone: 215-204-3628 Email: kenneth.ruff@temple.edu Study Away Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-BITC-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Biology with Teaching Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info