Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information 14th Merritt’s Neurology Continues Columbia Tradition November 1, 2021 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Since 1955, “Merritt’s Neurology,” long regarded as the standard reference work in the field, has been edited by Columbia neurologists. James Noble, MD, associate professor of neurology, now joins those ranks, as co-editor of the newest, 14th edition, with former Columbia colleagues. “Merritt’s” was first published in 1955 and authored by celebrated VP&S neurology chair H. Houston Merritt, who chaired neurology at VP&S from 1948 until 1968. Merritt was a transformative figure in 20th century neurology and consulted in the care of many famous people, including U.S. President Dwight Eisenhower and composer Dmitri Shostakovich. His leadership and the textbook he edited for six editions helped establish neurology as a field distinct from psychiatry and internal medicine and showed Columbia’s leadership in the field. "We are hopeful others share our understanding of the importance of having a text like ‘Merritt's Neurology’ on our bookshelves, no matter how fast the computer next to it is,” says James Noble (center), the latest Columbia neurologist to edit "Merritt's." Noble is pictured with fellow co-editors Elan Louis (left) and Stephan Mayer (right). Another illustrious Columbia neurologist, Lewis “Bud” Rowland, MD, chair of neurology at VP&S from 1973 to 1998, took over editing “Merritt’s” in 1984 with the 7th edition, bringing on other Columbia neurologists as co-editors, including Timothy Pedley, MD, for the 12th edition (2010) and Elan Louis, MD, and Stephan Mayer, MD, for the 13th edition (2016). Noble, who has been at Columbia since his residency and worked closely with Rowland, was asked to join as co-editor after Rowland’s death in 2017. Despite the availability of nearly every journal article on the internet, Noble says textbooks are still an important source for trainees and established practitioners. The internet is “a recipe for confirmation bias,” Noble recently told Neurology Today. “You find something like a supporting article because you're specifically looking for it and omit other possibilities in the process. This approach limits opportunities to expand your knowledge base. “Having a comprehensive way of learning about neurology, like a textbook, remains an important tool in training young doctors and avoids blind spots in learning. We are hopeful others share our understanding of the importance of having a text like ‘Merritt's Neurology’ on our bookshelves, no matter how fast the computer next to it is.” The 14th edition of Merritt’s is also co-edited by Mayer, MD, now director of neurocritical care at Westchester Medical Center and professor of neurology and neurosurgery at New York Medical College, and Louis, now chair of neurology at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. References More information In his clinical practice, James Noble, MD, MS, CPH, FAAN, primarily treats patients with dementia and athletes with cognitive and other persistent post-concussive symptoms. His research focuses on novel modifiable risk factors for dementia including recurrent sports-related concussions as well as chronic infections such as periodontal disease. Noble is fluent in Spanish. His approach to patient care views the patient within the entire family dynamic. Noble has been recognized as an inaugural Emerging Leader by the American Academy of Neurology, is a Fellow of the AAN, and is president of Arts & Minds, a non-profit organization promoting well-being for dementia patients and their caregivers via art-centered experiences. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top