You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Turn on more accessible mode Turn off more accessible mode Skip Ribbon Commands Skip to main content Turn off Animations Turn on Animations Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff DePaul University DePaul Shortcuts Student Life Life at DePaul Student Organizations Housing Virtual Campus Tour DeBlogs Career Center Athletics Art Museum Student Affairs Bookstore About Academics Admission & Aid Student Life Alumni & Friends Request Info Apply DePaul Shortcuts Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Apply Online Request Info Visit Campus About Rankings Campuses Chicago Events Mission President Administration Distinctions History & Timeline Accreditation & Licensure Academics Undergraduate Graduate Online Degrees Continuing Education Career Success Academic Catalog Colleges & Schools Research Corporate Education Academic Affairs Admission & Aid Types of Admission Visit DePaul Tuition Room & Board Scholarships Financial Aid Veteran Student Test Credit & Placement Check Your Application Status Admitted Students Immunization Student Life Life at DePaul Student Organizations Housing Virtual Campus Tour DeBlogs Career Center Athletics Art Museum Student Affairs Bookstore Alumni & Friends Request Info Apply Student Life Life at DePaul Student Organizations Housing Virtual Campus Tour DeBlogs Career Center Athletics Art Museum Student Affairs Bookstore Apply Online Request Info Visit Campus DePaul University > Student Life > Student Organizations Student Organizations Main Content Enhance your DePaul experience Looking to meet new people, network or give back? DePaul has more than 350 student organizations dedicated to community service, student government, professional development, recreational sports and more. Enjoy playing Esports? Give DePaul Esports & Gaming a try. Interested in art and architecture? Join History of Art and Architecture. Have a green thumb? Volunteer at DePaul Urban Gardeners community garden. Find the student organization that matches your interest. Search organizations Get involved The easiest way to learn about all of DePaul's student organizations is to attend the semi-annual Student Involvement Fair. It's held at the beginning of the Fall and Winter quarters at both the Loop and Lincoln Park campuses. Members from each of the student groups will be there to answer your questions, promote upcoming events and help you get involved. Browse student organization events. Become a leader Can't find a group that meets your needs or interests? Start your own student organization. Email the Student Involvement Ambassadors at studentorgs@depaul.edu to get started. They'll help register your new organization and offer coaching on marketing your group, setting up a leadership structure and recruiting members. Popular Student Organizations DePaul Activities Board DePaul Activities Board (DAB) is DePaul's premier event-organizing body. Throughout the school year, members of DAB provide DePaul students with a wide variety of events, ranging from annual traditions, such as Homecoming and FEST (an outdoor concert and festival), to speakers, music, movies, comedy shows, hypnotists and more. Student Government Association As the official representative body for students attending DePaul, the Student Government Association (SGA) is committed to promoting and advocating the student voice and opinion. Its mission might be best summed up in the phrase "We are interested students working for student interests!" Interfraternity Council, Panhellenic Council and Multicultural Greek Council Interfraternity Council (IFC) and Panhellenic Council (Panhel) are the programming and governing body of DePaul's fraternities and sororities, respectively. The councils sponsor opportunities for chapters to collaborate on new-member recruitment, philanthropic efforts and community service projects. Multicultural Greek Council (MGC) is the programming and governing body that unites and serves the cultural Greek letter organizations of DePaul. The mission of the MGC is to promote awareness of the multicultural Greek letter organizations as well as provide opportunities for membership recruitment, leadership training and community service. Questions about DePaul's student organizations? Contact the Office of Student Involvement. DePaul University Apply Request Info Visit Campus Directory 1 E. Jackson Blvd. Chicago, IL 60604 (312) 362-8000 Library Athletics Careers Events facebooktwitterinstagram 2001-2018 DePaul University | Disclaimer | Contact Us | Emergency Plan | Consumer Information | IBHE Complaints | Privacy StatementEditor Login Student Organizations