COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Student and Employee COVID-19 Testing Current WSU students, faculty and staff can now walk in for a free COVID-19 test at Student Health Services. If you have pre registered through MDL you can enter through the Wesley clinic door on the east side of the building. For registration information visit our COVID-19 testing page. COVID-19 Dashboard Section Menu COVID-19 Response Home University Announcements Current Students Guide Future Shockers Guide WSU Employees and Supervisors Guide Instructors FAQ Index of FAQ Questions COVID-19 Vaccination Information COVID-19 Research Student Health COVID-19 Page COVID-19 Self-Observation questionnaires COVID-19 Dashboard Timeline of WSU's COVID response Wichita State University understands the importance of COVID-19 testing and the critical nature of sharing data with our campus community. This COVID-19 dashboard is a source of information to provide updates on COVID-19 data specifically related to the campus community. The dashboard will be updated weekly, though the data is continuously monitored by our administration and health experts. Important notes about this information The data provided below is information Wichita State University has collected at its Student Health Services. TESTING BY WSU STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES IS LIMITED TO TESTING OF STUDENTS AND IS PRIMARILY DUE TO THE INDIVIDUAL EXPERIENCING SYMPTOMS AND/OR HAVING A KNOWN EXPOSURE, WHICH MAY RESULT IN A HIGHER PREVALENCE OF POSITIVE TESTS. The data does not include testing results from WSU staff, faculty, or students who may have been tested at a different site or with their own healthcare provider. As such, these results are not necessarily indicative of all positive cases in people associated with WSU and may not precisely correspond with other official reports of cases. It is not possible to collect accurately a complete dataset of students, faculty and staff tested off-campus. Students, faculty, and staff who undergo testing off-campus are not required to report positive test results. Only those who indicate Sedgwick County as their place of residence are included in Sedgwick County reporting. Recent Kansas legislation enacted to protect the privacy and confidentiality of information prevents the university from engaging in contact tracing efforts. As a result, all contact tracing is conducted through the state and local county health departments. The Sedgwick County Health Department, in conjunction with the Kansas Department of Health and Environment, are responsible for contacting individuals who test positive, providing instructions for isolating, and collecting information on close contacts. Given the limitations of this data, the university will not be, and cautions others against, drawing broad conclusions from this data about the prevalence of COVID-19 on campus. For more information relating to WSU’s efforts to reduce the risk of COVID-19 exposure on campus, please see WSU’s current COVID-related policies, procedures, and practices and the following resources, which house the most complete, up-to-date data relative to our Shocker community: Kansas Department of Health and Environment COVID-19 information Sedgwick County COVID-19 Dashboard Sedgwick County Health Department Past 14 days (May 10-23) Tested 112 Positives 9 Pct. Positive 8.0% Tested Positives Pct. Positive 112 9 8.0% Frequently Asked Questions What is a “cluster?” The university is following the Sedgwick County Health Department definition of a COVID-19 “cluster,” which has been defined as two or more confirmed or probable cases of COVID-19 that are linked by the same location of exposure (e.g., hospital, long-term care facility, grocery store, etc.) or exposure event (e.g., party, venue, etc.) that is not a household exposure. An example of a “cluster” on campus might include individuals who attended the same off-campus party. What is the university doing with reports of positive tests? The university has adopted and implemented policies, procedures and practices regarding reports of known exposure or positive cases on campus. The university continues to follow the guidance of federal, state and local health officials in combating the spread of COVID-19 by recommending masks be worn on campus, limiting classroom sizes, encouraging frequent hand washing, postponing large events, promoting remote work, installing Plexiglas barriers in public offices, providing sanitizer to the campus community and in buildings, requiring social distancing, and increasing sanitization of targeted areas. Health officials agree that these measures are the most effective way to combat the spread of this disease. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©