Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Housing Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Incoming Students Current Students Guide to Living Explore Residences Dates Other Services About First-Year Housing First-Year Application First-Year Check-In 3-2 Combined Plan Housing New Transfer and Exchange Housing Visiting Student Housing Summer Housing Options for Students Spring Check-Out Room Selection How It Works Eligibility Special Populations Registration Point Values, Lottery Numbers & Selection Appointments Selection Selecting as a Group Online Selection Step-by-Step If You Need Help Hartley Hospitality Desk Resident Advisers On Duty Columbia Public Safety Forms Residence Halls Directory with Map First-Year Area Carman Hall Furnald Hall Hartley Hall John Jay Hall Wallach Hall Upperclass Area 47 Claremont Avenue 600 West 113 Street Broadway Hall Carlton Arms East Campus Harmony Hall Hogan Hall McBain Hall Residential Brownstones River Hall Ruggles Hall Schapiro Hall SIC Residences Watt Hall Wien Hall Woodbridge Hall Fraternities and Sororities FSL Brownstones Residence Hall Amenities Bike Storage Locations Computer Labs & Print Stations Fitness Center Locations Residence Hall Lounges Rate Structure Fire Safety Resident Advisers On Duty Hartley Hospitality Desk Conference Housing Conference Housing Request Form Commencement Housing Our Team About Columbia Housing Staff Directory Resources News & Announcements Video Library Sustainability Our Sustainability Initiatives Green Sale Sustainable Columbia Website Other Campus Housing Columbia Housing You are here: Home Current Students Room Selection How it Works How it Works How Room Selection Works Everything you need to know to get a room Room Selection in 6 Easy Steps Room Selection is an annual process during which current undergraduate students select on-campus housing for the following academic year. Students choose from a variety of housing arrangements that include living with a group in doubles, suites, or apartments, or living in a single in a corridor-style room or studio apartment. Students are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the options and selection steps. What About First-Year Students? First-Year students do not participate in Room Selection, but are instead assigned to one of our First-Year residence halls. Explore our Buildings Use our Residence Hall Directory to research your options. Learn more about Special Living Communities. Attend info sessions and building tours. Understand Eligibility and Special Populations Understand eligibility for Room Selection and special considerations for Rising Sophomores, study abroad, leave, students registered with Disability Services, or living with Barnard students. Mark Your Calendar Note important dates and deadlines, including the deadline for students to register for a disability accommodation. Missing a critical step in the process could impact your ability to secure on-campus housing. Pick a Group Leader If you plan to form a group, decide on a Group Leader. Have an open and detailed conversation as a group about where you do and don’t want to live. During selection, the Group Leader will have the responsibility to make a choice on behalf of the whole group. Register for Room Selection Register for Room Selection. All Columbia students must register, even if they intend to live elsewhere next year. Registration lets us know your intended plan and is important in maintaining guaranteed housing status. Select a Room After registration closes, individual students or groups will receive a lottery number and appointment time. During your appointment time, students can pick from available options. After you select your room, be sure to sign the Occupancy Agreement. Your assignment is not finalized until you and all members of your group have submitted the Agreement through the Housing Portal. Updates for AY 22-23 The third floor of River Hall will be used for SIC housing Room Selection Videos Check out our collection of videos designed to help you learn more about our residence halls and the Room Selection process so that you can successfully choose a room for the Fall Term as part of a group or as an individual. Many of the videos feature your fellow students providing their personal tips and recommendations, including our featured video, "How Room Selection Works" which was created in collaboration with the Residence Hall Leadership Organization (RHLO). Housing Tour: 600 West 113th Street Housing Tour: Carlton Arms Housing Tour: Harmony Hall Housing Tour: McBain Hall Housing Tour: Schapiro Hall edit video Topics: No results There are no videos with the provided filters. Phone Housing Main Office: 212-854-2946 (Monday - Friday, 9:00AM - 5:00PM) Hospitality Desk: 212-854-2779 (Available 24x7) Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close