Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Think and Do Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State Home Features About Think and Do Video Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State Home Features About Think and Do Video Full Site Navigation Discover North Carolina's intellectual capital. At this university, no good idea goes on a shelf, and every action we take is thoughtful. NC State was built to prepare North Carolina citizens for what's coming next. That mission is timeless. Play Video Think Big For 133 years, we’ve been tasked with thinking ahead. What will North Carolina need? What will tomorrow’s jobs look like? Who will be ready to fill them? NC State is home to nationally renowned programs in engineering, veterinary medicine, textiles, statistics, design, linguistics and more. Silicon Valley companies hire more graduates from NC State than from any school in the Ivy League. And we’re the first university in North America to host an IBM Q Hub — because they trust us to shape the future of quantum computing. For today’s students, we’re the smartest investment in the state. When Money magazine analyzed more than two dozen data points to find the country’s top values, NC State beat out all other North Carolina universities. And we’re a national leader in distance and online education. #26 Best Public University Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education #4 for Veterinary Medicine U.S. News & World Report #1 Best College for your money in North Carolina Money Combine and Conquer Innovation is a team sport. The challenges facing our state and nation are bigger than any one person. And in 2020, no one learns to do just one job. Our scholarship and research reflect those realities. From the digital humanities to biomedical engineering, we multiply our strengths and teach students to do the same — through internships and study abroad, undergraduate research and top-ranked entrepreneurship programs. On our Centennial Campus, future graduates work alongside today’s leaders in business, and everyone benefits. We prepare students to succeed in their chosen industry. But we also teach them to create new ones. To seize opportunities. To adapt and thrive and be ready for everything. 100+ National Scholars and Fellows over the past five years Top 10 for Undergraduate Entrepreneurship Princeton Review #4 for Industry-Sponsored Research Information Technology and Innovation Foundation Get Things Done A land-grant university can’t be purely academic. It has to live its purpose. Since the beginning, we’ve matched thought with action — and we’ve been home to students who do the same. NC State starts companies, creates jobs and brings dollars home to North Carolina. Our work on CRISPR — a groundbreaking gene-editing technology — led to the creation of a spinout company that inked a collaboration and licensing agreement worth up to $818 million. And of the 29 new companies launched by the UNC System in 2018, a full 20 got their start at NC State. “Think and Do” is more than a phrase on the banners you’ll see hanging on Hillsborough Street. It’s our mantra and our mission: Make world-class scholarship and research matter in the lives of everyday people, and tear down the barriers that stand in their way. #2 in Research Commercialization among universities without a medical school Association of University Technology Managers 170+ Startup Companies Launched on NC State Research Office of Research Commercialization 9:1 Return on Investment on Every Taxpayer Dollar Economic Modeling Specialists International Dig Deeper Discover NC State Find out what we mean by "Think and Do" — and why our work is essential to citizens across North Carolina and the nation. Explore past stories Think and Do Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 About the Site Academic Calendar Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan Free Speech Campus Map Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.