Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Programs Connell School of Nursing Undergraduate Programs Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Connell School of Nursing Founded in 1947, the Boston College Connell School of Nursing offers a four-year program of study leading to a Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Nursing. At the completion of the program, graduates are eligible to take the national examination for licensure as a registered nurse (R.N.). The program of study is approved by the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Nursing and is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education. Visit bc.edu/cson for more information. The mission of the Boston College William F. Connell School of Nursing is to prepare compassionate, professionally competent nurses whose practice and scholarship are scientifically based and grounded in humanizing the experience of health and illness. In keeping with the Jesuit, Catholic ideals, we focus on formation of the whole person and promotion of social justice. The Connell School of Nursing educates students as reflective life-long learners who use knowledge in service to others. The graduate of the baccalaureate program is prepared as a generalist who promotes, maintains, and restores the health of individuals, families, and communities/populations across the life span. Nursing courses are designed to include more complex concepts and content at each level. Consequently, students must take courses in a specific sequence and pass each course before proceeding to the next level. To be eligible for graduation, students must successfully complete the courses that comprise the curriculum, nursing requirements, and electives. The study of nursing is based on a common intellectual heritage transmitted by a liberal education and the art and science of nursing. (See Core Curriculum under the University Policies section of this catalog.) Students are encouraged to complete their history, philosophy, theology, and English Core courses in their first and second years. Nursing students use the clinical reasoning process to assess, plan, implement, and evaluate care. Judgments made by the nurse result in selection of interventions and outcomes in concert with the client's choices. Most nursing courses have a theory and a clinical component, and the curriculum includes content on the care of children, childbearing families, and adults of all ages across the continuum of wellness to illness. Faculty members guide student learning in campus laboratories and in a variety of healthcare agencies in the Greater Boston area. Students should consult the curriculum plan and see their advisors as they plan for registration. Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Connell School of Nursing Faculty Connell School of Nursing Website Print Open All Close All Typical Plan of Study for Class of 2019 and Forward Typical Plan of Study for Class of 2019 and Forward Note: CSON Undergraduates are obligated to register for a minimum of 12 credits per semester but normally should take 15 credits in almost all semesters to meet all program requirements on time. Freshman Year Semester I BIOL1300, BIOL1310 Anatomy and Physiology I CHEM1161, CHEM1163 Life Science Chemistry NURS1010 Professional Development Seminar Core or elective Core or elective Semester II BIOL1320, BIOL1330 Anatomy and Physiology II MATH1180 Principles of Statistics for the Health Sciences NURS2070 Introduction to Professional Nursing Core or elective Core or elective Sophomore Year Semester I BIOL2200, BIOL2210 Microbiology for Health Professionals NURS2122 Nursing Health Assessment Across the Life Span NURS2121 Nursing Health Assessment Across the Life Span Clinical Laboratory NURS2080 Pathophysiology Core or elective Semester II NURS2230 Adult Health Nursing Theory I NURS2231 Adult Health Nursing Clinical I NURS2205 Clinical Pharmacology HLTH2206 Principles of Nutrition NURS2090 Sophomore Formation Seminar Core or elective Junior Year All students will have a flexible semester in their junior year. The flexibility will allow for study abroad (if approved by the Office of International Programs and their specific program). Students who are not abroad in their "flex" semester may be scheduled to take at least one clinical course. This is one example of the flexible junior year schedule below. The Undergraduate Program Office will determine the exact clinical sequence for each junior. Semester I NURS3242 Adult Health Nursing Theory II NURS3243 Adult Health Nursing Clinical II NURS3244 Childbearing Nursing Theory NURS3245 Childbearing Nursing Clinical NURS3170 Principles of Evidence-based Nursing Semester II "Flex" Semester Senior Year The Undergraduate Program Office will determine the exact clinical sequence for each senior. This is one example of the senior year schedule below. Semester I NURS4250 Child Health Theory NURS4251 Child Health Clinical NURS4252 Psychiatric-Mental Health Nursing Theory NURS4253 Psychiatric-Mental Health Nursing Clinical Lab Core or elective Semester II NURS4260 Population Health Nursing Theory NURS4261 Population Health Practice in the Community NURS4263 Nursing Synthesis Clinical Laboratory NURS4264 Actualizing the Role of the Professional Nurse Core or elective The Connell School of Nursing reserves the right to alter any program or policy outlined. Satisfactory Academic Progress Satisfactory Academic Progress The CSON Academic Standards Advisory Committee meets at the end of each semester to review the records of students with course failures, course deficiencies, low GPAs, or other academic concerns. Decisions about progression in the program are made by this committee in accordance with the policies outlined in the CSON Baccalaureate Program Handbook (on the CSON website) and other relevant university policies. Credit and Graduation Requirements Students registered for at least 12 credit hours per semester are considered full-time students. Usually 15 credits are carried each semester and a minimum of 117 credits are required for graduation. Information for First Year Students Information for First Year Students During the first year students typically complete two semesters of Anatomy and Physiology with laboratories, Life Science Chemistry with Laboratory, Writing and Literature, Statistics, History I and II, Introduction to Professional Nursing, and Nursing Professional Development Seminar. Electives may be substituted in certain situations (e.g., the student has Advanced Placement credits for Core courses or wishes to continue foreign language study). During orientation, students will meet with faculty members who will assist them with registration for the fall. In September, students will be assigned advisors who will guide them through the Nursing program. Special Opportunities Special Opportunities Study Abroad Students in the William F. Connell School of Nursing are encouraged to take advantage of opportunities to study abroad for one semester. Normally, students may study abroad during fall or spring semester of junior year. Most students take electives and can sometimes complete Core courses while they are abroad. Students are free to study abroad in any location approved by the Office of International Programs. A minimum GPA is required for all study abroad programs. Nursing Synthesis Course The Nursing Synthesis course in the senior year offers students an advanced nursing practicum where they work with an individually assigned professional nurse preceptor. Students write a proposal in the semester prior to the course indicating their special learning interests. Independent Study (NURS4911) Junior or senior nursing students develop a proposal for independent study in an area of nursing in which they wish to obtain further knowledge and/or experience. Guidelines are available on the CSON undergraduate website. Students should consult an academic advisor and/or the Associate Dean of the undergraduate program about their proposal. All independent study is graded as Pass/Fail. Undergraduate Research Fellows Program Students in excellent academic standing may apply to assist faculty in a faculty-directed research project and gain valuable experience in nursing research. Minors in the Connell School of Nursing Minors in the Connell School of Nursing Nursing students may minor in any Morrissey College Arts and Sciences or Lynch School of Education and Human Development discipline by fulfilling the requirements of those departments. Minor in Hispanic Studies Minor in Hispanic Studies Nursing students may minor in Hispanic Studies by completing 18 credits in Spanish/Hispanic Studies that are approved by the Associate Dean. CSON students who wish to declare a CSON Hispanic studies minor should meet with the Associate Dean. Minor in Psychology Minor in Psychology The minor is awarded to CSON students who complete 18 credits in psychology. Courses should include PSYC1110 Introduction to Brain, Mind, and Behavior and PSYC1111 Introduction to Psychology as a Social Science. Students who received AP credit for PSYC1110 and PSYC1111 may select alternate courses. Courses that may be applied to the minor include the following (or others approved by the undergraduate Associate Dean): ADPS1100 Introductory Psychology (Woods College; no credit for ADPS1100 if PSYC1111 was taken) APSY1030 Child Growth and Development APSY1032 Psychology of Learning APSY2041 Adolescent Psychology APSY2241 Abnormal Psychology FORS5315 Victimology FORS5317 Forensic Mental Health FORS5318 Forensic Science 1 PSYC1011 Psychobiology of Mental Disorders PSYC1029 Mind and Brain PSYC2241 Social Psychology PSYC2260 Developmental Psychology PSYC2268 Psychological Development through the Life Span PSYC2272 Cognitive Psychology PSYC2274 Sensation and Perception PSYC2285 Behavioral Neuroscience PSYC3329 Psychology of Stress PSYC3331 Developmental Psychopathology PSYC3334 Interpersonal Violence PSYC3336 Clinical Psychology PSYC3338 Topics in Abnormal Psychology PSYC3344 Psychology of Gender PSYC3345 Social Motivation PSYC3354 Culture, Identity, and the Asian-American Experience PSYC3366 Social and Emotional Development PSYC3367 Psychology of Art PSYC3371 Cognitive Neuroscience PSYC3372 Affective Neuroscience PSYC3377 Psycholinguistics PSYC3382 Neurobiology of Stress PSYC3383 Neurobiological Basis of Learning PSYC3384 Neurophysiology PSYC3386 Psychopharmacology PSYC3391 Ethical Controversies in Psychology and Neuroscience Minor in Humanities, Health, and Culture Minor in Humanities, Health, and Culture This is a minor for students who are interested in examining health and health care from new and varied perspectives. Currently, students from pre-med and pre-health professions throughout the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences and other backgrounds such as law, psychology, public/global health, social work, and journalism are enrolled in the MCAS version of the minor. A special version of the minor has been created for CSON students to accommodate constraints in the B.S. (nursing) schedule. CSON students who are comfortable with significant writing assignments, have room in their schedule to accommodate added classes (especially those who have brought in AP credit and/or fulfilled a majority of their Core in the freshman year), and may wish to engage with a range of academic fields may consider this minor. Minor Requirements: ENGL2212 Introduction to Medical Humanities (Enrollment is based upon acceptance to the minor.) BIOL1300 and BIOL1310 Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab BIOL1320 and BIOL1330 Anatomy and Physiology II with Lab NURS4264 Actualizing the Role of the Professional Nurse 2 electives from the approved list: (At least one course should be beyond those used to fulfill the Core requirements and not come from either Nursing or Biology.) The Humanities, Health, and Culture minor is only open to the Class of 2019 and forward. Applications are available in the early spring semester for first-year students only. Special Requirements for CSON Students Special Requirements for CSON Students Health Requirements In addition to the health and immunization requirements for all undergraduate students, nursing students must have immunity to varicella (chicken pox), hepatitis B, and MMR with an annual screening for tuberculosis (PPD) and flu shot. Other requirements may be required. Other Clinical Requirements Nursing students are required to be certified in Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) before enrolling in Adult Health I clinical, and must keep this certification current. Nursing students must also undergo the expanded multistate criminal offense background checks that are required by affiliating health care institutions. General Information General Information Cooperating Hospitals and Health Agencies Students in the baccalaureate nursing program have planned learning experiences in teaching hospitals and community agencies in the Boston metropolitan area. The facilities used for these experiences are located in Boston and the surrounding area. Students are responsible for providing their own transportation to and from those facilities. Most sites are accessible by public transportation. Fees School of Nursing students pay the same tuition, fees, and room and board costs as other colleges' enrollees. In addition, nursing students have the following expenses: Standardized examination (NCLEX Assessment Test) $70.00 Laboratory Fee up to $200.00 (Payable for certain clinical nursing courses) Costs for transportation to clinical sites, additional health requirements, and CPR certification College Credit for Transfer Students Candidates possessing a bachelor's degree in another field and candidates possessing college credit in either nursing or non-nursing programs apply to the Office of Transfer Admissions, located in Devlin Hall. A maximum of 60 credits will be accepted in transfer. Nursing courses taken at another institution will be evaluated on an individual basis. Students applying for transfer will be asked to submit course syllabi to the School of Nursing for use in evaluating prior course work. Additional information on transfer credits may be found in the Baccalaureate Program Handbook on the BC website. Career Opportunities The field of nursing offers a wide variety of career options, including positions in hospitals, long-term care facilities, community health agencies, clinics, and day care centers for children and the elderly. Nurses are establishing private practices and group practices with other health professionals. Business, industry, and occupational health settings employ nurses. The baccalaureate program of study prepares its graduates for entry into master's and doctoral degree programs in nursing. With graduate study, advanced practice nurses see clients in primary care, teach students and other health professionals, establish programs of research, provide consultation, serve as health care planners, and participate on governmental committees dealing with health care issues. Many graduates of the Boston College Connell School of Nursing have gone on from clinical careers to become researchers in clinical settings and to serve on faculties of schools of nursing and administrators of clinical and educational institutions. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College