Student Employment - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UCS - University Career Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University Career Services Home About Us Staff Degrees Conferred by Semester Graduation Survey Room Request Form Event Calendar Students Get Resume Support Meet with a Counselor Career Resources Attend an Event Student Employment Job Scam Reporting and Resources Student Success Stories Earn a Leadership Award First-Gen Resources Request a Presentation Graduate & Professional Student Resources Alumni Recent Graduates Experienced Alumni Alumni Resources Upcoming Alumni Events Subscribe to Alumni Career Services (ACS) UH Recruitment Series Employers Recruit at UH Become a Sponsor Create an Account Post a Job or Internship UH Career Fairs College Directory Employer Resources Recruiting Policies On-Campus Interviews Report Hiring Efforts Employer Summit Faculty/Staff Meet your Campus Liaison! Request a Presentation Hire a Student Employee View Faculty and Staff Resources Families UH Virutal Education Support Program Cougar Pathway Giving UH Home UCS - University Career Services Students Student Employment Students Get Resume Support Meet with a Counselor Career Resources Attend an Event Virtual Workshops Upcoming Meet and Greets Student Employment Job Scam Reporting and Resources Student Success Stories Earn a Leadership Award First-Gen Resources Graduate and Professional Resources Student Employment Being employed during the academic year is a great way to earn extra money, build a professional network, and gain valuable job experience that can transfer into your desired career goals. Explore your options and decide what's right for you. 2 Types of on-campus student employment 1. College Work-study (Also known as Federal or Texas Work-study) The College Work-study or Federal Work-study (FWS) Program is a government subsidized student employment program designed to assist students in financing their post-secondary education. In order to be eligible for Work-study students must document financial need every year by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Students who not receive a college work-study award after completing the FAFSA and are interested in obtaining college work-study, should email a request to workstudy@uh.edu or visit the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid office to be added to the waitlist. CWS FAQ Eligible CWS students Eligible students will be notified by the University of Houston Financial Aid if they receive college work-study and MUST accept the award via myUH self-service. Eligible students can work part-time on-campus or with UH-approved work-study off-campus organizations Eligible students are able to work up to 20 hours per week at an hourly starting rate of at least minimum wage ($7.25). (Note: Students may not earn more than the amount of the Work-Study (WS) award) Types of CWS jobs The on-campus work-study jobs are as diverse as the personnel needs of the University. Clerical assistants, data entry operators, photography technicians, artists and laboratory research assistants are but a few examples. Off-campus positions with employers/agencies approved to participate in the Federal Work-Study Program offer further variety. These positions are available through non-profit organizations and are usually in areas of community service. Off-campus positions may include Photography, museum guides, public relations, editorial, research assistants, and tutors. Resources for CWS students Video: Steps to getting a college work-study job Video: How to apply for work-study Jobs 2. Non-College Work Study The employer pays 100% of the student's wages out of their own funds. Eligible NCWS students All enrolled students are eligible for NCWS positions and will need to apply for open positions through Cougar Pathway or directly visit on-campus departments Students are able to work up to 20 hours per week at an hourly starting rate of $7.25 Types of NCWS jobs NCWS jobs could fall under any of these categories: office assistant, ambassadors, technology support, program assistant, social media assistant, research assistant, teaching assistant, data entry, food service worker or cashier, or tutor. NCWS jobs can be found all across campus including academic departments, student affairs and enrollment services, athletics and food service. Resources for NCWS students Video: How to apply for on-campus jobs Determine your eligibility Student Status College Work-Study Non-College Work-Study Part Time or Full Time: Undergraduate Student and U.S. Citizen Yes Yes Part Time or Full Time: Graduate Student and U.S. Citizen Yes Yes International Student No Yes How to find on-campus student employment Campus Jobs for Coogs Each Fall University Career Services hosts an on-campus job fair for all students. On-campus and off-campus employers attend the event and are looking for students to fill their open positions. More information about the Fall 2019 Campus Jobs for Coogs Cougar Pathway Students can log into Cougar Pathway to view available on-campus student employment positions. In order to apply for ANY open positions through Cougar Pathway, students must have: Completed their academic and personal profile An approved resume in Cougar Pathway How to apply for on-campus student employment Students are encouraged to frequently view the numerous jobs available by logging in to their account on Cougar Pathway. New jobs are posted in Cougar Pathway daily! Steps for applying: Log onto Access UH – Click the Cougar Pathway icon Once on the home screen, click “Jobs” on the left side 3. Click “Search” or “College Work-Study” (if eligible for work-study) In the search bar, you can type keywords or simply search through all positions Apply with an approved resume within the system and follow the instructions provided within the job posting You will be contacted by the employer should they be interested in interviewing you Tips & Suggestions/Recommendations for On-campus Employment Job Search Apply for multiple job postings (minimum of 10-15 jobs) Follow up after applying (3-5 days afterward) Search for jobs daily and respond quickly to positions that you are interested in (even check on the website a couple of times during the day) Have a Career Counselor look at your resume before applying Instructions for setting up a career counseling appointment Practice interviewing with a Career Counselor • Dress professionally for the interview (View Professional Dress Assistance/Resources) If you go in person to the department, show enthusiasm and friendliness to everyone in the office Show the department as much availability as possible in your schedule. It is helpful for students to schedule classes to accommodate a consistent work schedule. Creating blocks of time for work, such as 8:00am – 12:00pm or 1:00 – 5:00pm, is best, as many departments prefer students to work for a minimum three-hour block of time Student Employee of the Year Each spring, University Career Services hosts Student Employment Week which honors and recognizes all University of Houston student employees. During the week, there are programs such as coffee and breakfast for student employees, free professional headshots and a supervisor “thank you card” writing. At the end of the week, there is a Student Employee Awards Luncheon where student employees are recognized and one student is chosen as Student Employee of the Year. 2020 – 2021 Employee of the Year Emilio Jamerlan Customer Relations Manager Student Center Related Links Cougar Pathway Instructions Check out current on-campus jobs: University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies