Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Emergency Funding Programs Graduate School Skip to Navigation Emergency Funding Programs Short-Term Loan The Brown University Short-Term Loan Program is a zero interest loan made available to students to assist in emergencies. This fund has historically supported students experiencing cash-flow related situations where a buffer is needed immediately. After a request is approved, students must sign a Promissory Note/Acknowledgement and funds must be repaid according to those terms. Short-Term Emergency Loans cannot assist with a student's costs of tuition, room or board. The maximum amount that can be requested is $500. Eligible students may complete the Short Term Loan Request Form and setup an eRefund Profile at payment.brown.edu in order to receive the funds electronically. Students must repay all approved Short Term Loans directly to the Brown University Cashier Office before the end of the current semester. Eligibility Students may apply remotely. Newly matriculated students who will be starting in the fall term are eligible starting in August. Primary Contacts PhD and MFA students - Maria Suarez, Associate Dean of Student Support in the Graduate School All other master’s students - Alicia LaPolla, Associate Dean of Student Affairs in the School of Professional Studies Graduate School Emergency Funding The Graduate School has established emergency funding for graduate students with high demonstrated financial need to assist with emergent expenses. There are three separate applications: the ‘Graduate School E-Gap Fund for Doctoral and MFA Students’, the ‘SPS E-Gap Fund for Master's and Professional Students’ and the ‘Medical Students E-Gap Fund’. All applications can be found in UFunds, under ‘Graduate Student E-Gap Funds’. Emergency support may come in the form of a cash payment (typically capped at $500), meal points, or other support as available and appropriate. We give emergency funding requests the fullest consideration that our available resources will permit. Students can expect to receive a response to their application within 2-3 business days. Meal points (credits for on-campus meals) may be provided to students experiencing acute food need. This form of support, the number of meals, and the period of time over which they will be provided will be determined on an individual basis after discussion between the student and Associate Dean. Because each student’s situation is different, there is no standard for when or how many meal points are provided. Eligibility Students should apply to the appropriate e-gap application depending on which program they are enrolled in (PhD/MFA, medical, or other master’s). Students on leave are NOT eligible to apply. Graduate students in their first year who received a transitional stipend are generally not eligible for e-gap funding, but may be eligible for meal points. If a first-year PhD or MFA student is experiencing urgent financial need, they should contact Maria Suarez, Associate Dean of Student Support in the Graduate School. Emergency funding is not available for the reimbursement of technology purchases. Primary Contacts PhD and MFA students - Maria Suarez, Associate Dean of Student Support in the Graduate School All other master’s students - Alicia LaPolla, Associate Dean of Student Affairs in the School of Professional Studies Medical students - Roxanne Vrees, Associate Dean for Student Affairs in the Warren Alpert Medical School Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants