Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Human Resources HR right arrow down arrow Current Employees right arrow down arrow Staff Success Center Employment & Income Verification Holidays & Winter Season Days Student Employees Affiliated Faculty UC Retirees and Former Employees right arrow down arrow UC Retirees Former Employees Unions right arrow down arrow AAUP AFSCME FOP-ECD FOP-SO FOP-Supervisors FOP-ULEO IUOE ONA SEIU Work at UC Contact Us Home » Employees » Human Resources » Work at UC Work at UC If you have heard GREAT things about working at the University of Cincinnati, you are not alone!  Great Opportunities We offer a variety of opportunities and career paths as diverse as our UC community. Our three prominent types of positions are for faculty roles (instructing students), staff positions (supporting teaching efforts, maintaining campus services, providing office support, conducting research), or student employment (both within the university and supporting the community). If you are interested in housekeeping, food service, bookstore, or transportation roles please visit our partner employers at: Eastern Personnel – housekeeping Aramark – food service Follet – campus store operations Croswell - shuttle drivers To lean more about career opportunities at UC please choose from one of the following options to be taken to our career site. External Applicants, Returning Applicants and Students Current Employees GREAT EXPERIENCE right arrow down arrow We want you to have a GREAT applicant experience. We receive thousands of applications daily and our applicants are reviewed by real people, not computers or machines! To help ensure that your qualifications are shared appropriately, please keep the following information in mind. Stay Current Our application process starts with an applicant profile – make sure your profile is complete and current Create your profile with a private email - don’t use a work email Your login email is a ‘username’ and it cannot be changed You can change the email you use for receiving notifications at any time Keep your contact information current or we can’t reach you Make sure your resume is up to date with all your skills and experience Online Application Once you have a profile you can apply to any job posting any time – just login and start searching After completing an application make sure you submit the application Be sure you have included all the materials requested in the job posting An incomplete application will not move forward for review If you do not meet the minimum qualifications, you will not move forward for review Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and inclusion is extremely important to us at UC and we require a short statement telling us how you have contributed to diversity and inclusion in your previous job – be sure to put some thought into this statement Next Steps Some positions require pre-testing to qualify for further evaluation - this will be noted in the job posting The hiring departments are responsible for contacting and reviewing applicants for their specific job openings Log into your profile to see where your application is in the hiring process Not Hired We can’t hire everyone who applies – it is a difficult decision to tell an applicant they are no longer in the running for a job Keep applying – there may be another job that’s a better fit Meeting the minimum qualifications is not enough to get the job – we look at many factors when deciding who to consider for employment Remember, we get many qualified applicants – only one will get the job GREAT BENEFITS right arrow down arrow UC is committed to offering competitive benefits plans that maximize our ability to recruit, retain, reward and motivate highly-qualified and diverse faculty and staff. You can learn more about UC’s wide array of affordable benefits designed to meet the needs of you and your family by reviewing the Benefits Brochure below. Summary of Benefits Brochure Summary of Benefit Options for Part Time Faculty and Staff Summary of Benefit Options for AAUP Represented Faculty and Librarians Summary of Benefit Options for Full-time Staff (including those covered by a union) and Visiting Faculty Summary of Benefit Options for Post Docs, Interns and Annual Adjuncts GREAT REPUTATION right arrow down arrow Proudly celebrating our 200th year anniversary, the university is home to a host of impressive accomplishments. UC is classified as a ‘Research University’ (Very High Research Activity) by the Carnegie Commission and is ranked as one of America’s top public research universities by the National Science Foundation. Our employees, as well as our many students and graduates, contribute in great ways across the region, our country, and the world. GREAT PEOPLE right arrow down arrow Our nearly 15,000 faculty, staff, and student employees contribute their individual talents and expertise to the university in a wide range of disciplines from supporting the operations of the university, or serving a diverse student body, to enhancing the local community. GREAT VISION right arrow down arrow With an emphasis on diversity and inclusion, and a strategic direction, NEXT LIVES HERE, that focuses on academic excellence, urban impact, and an agenda of innovation. Is a career at UC your NEXT step? GREAT CITY right arrow down arrow The city of Cincinnati was rated a ‘Best Place’ to live by US News & World Report and provides both urban and suburban life as well as river views and rolling hills. With a wealth of amenities that include professional sports, world class entertainment, a vibrant arts scene, gorgeous parks and nature trails, acclaimed museums, a celebrated zoo, a variety of restaurants and a flourishing riverfront scene, it’s no wonder multiple Fortune 500 companies call Cincinnati home. GREAT LOCATIONS right arrow down arrow With multiple campus locations, each with a feel of their own, it’s no wonder UC is recognized for its unique style. In addition to being named a “green university” by Princeton Review, UC was named one of the world’s most beautiful campuses by Forbes and Delta Sky magazines. Our campus locations include main and medical campus (uptown Cincinnati), Victory Parkway, Reading, UC Clermont, UC Blue Ash, medical campus (Corryville) The University of Cincinnati, as a multi-national and culturally diverse university, is committed to providing an inclusive, equitable and diverse place of learning and employment. As part of a complete job application you will be asked to include a Contribution to Diversity and Inclusion statement. Please contact Human Resources at 513-556-6381 or jobs@UC.edu to request accommodations for the application process. The University of Cincinnati is an Affirmative Action / Equal Opportunity Employer / M / F / Veteran / Disabled. The University of Cincinnati is required by federal law to comply with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act) and the Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA). In accordance with these acts, each year UC prepares an Annual Security and Fire Report. This report contains campus crime and fire statistics for the previous three years on all UC campuses, as well as, policies for Title IX, Student Conduct and Community Standards, Public Safety and more. For the full report visit Clery Notices at the link below. Human Resources 340 University Hall 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, OH 45221-0039 513-556-6381 PO Box 210039 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Human Resources 340 University Hall 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, OH 45221-0039 513-556-6381 PO Box 210039 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top