Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications This is a glossary of common terms used on award notices by schools nationwide. This information my help you compare award notices you receive from different schools. Cost of Attendance (COA) Direct Costs Educational Loan Student Loan Federal Direct Student Loan Federal Grad PLUS Loan Private (Alternative) Loan Federal Parent Loan (PLUS) Enrollment Level Enrollment Status Expected Family Contribution (EFC) Family Financial Responsibility Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG) Federal Work-Study (FWS) Gift Aid Grant Indirect Costs Net Cost Net Price (see Net Cost) Out-of-pocket Cost Scholarship Self-help Verification Definitions: Cost of Attendance (COA): The estimated cost of attending this institution for one academic year. This amount includes the following: Expected charges for tuition and fees Tuition – Charges assessed for classes Fees – Charges assessed for other college services Estimated allowance for rent, utilities, and food for on or off-campus living Estimated transportation costs Estimated textbooks and supplies Personal and miscellaneous costs Direct Costs: Expenses the student/family pays to the college. Educational Loan: A form of financial aid that must be repaid with interest. Educational loans have varying interest rates and repayment terms. Students and/or parents are required to sign a promissory note when accepting an educational loan. Student Loan: Funds awarded to the student that must eventually be paid back to the lender by the student. Federal Direct Student Loan: Loan funds provided to the student by the U.S. Department of Education, through the school. Repayment of principal begins six months after the borrower ceases to be a student on at least a half-time basis. The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is the annual application. There are two types of Federal Direct Student Loans: subsidized and unsubsidized. Students with financial need can qualify for a subsidized loan, and the government pays the interest on the loan while the student remains enrolled at least half time. Students who don’t demonstrate financial need qualify for an unsubsidized loan and interest accrues while the student is in school. Federal Grad PLUS Loan: Loan funds provided to graduate students by the U.S. Department of Education, through the school. This federal loan program allows graduate students with no adverse credit history to apply for up to their Cost of Attendance each year, less any financial aid. To be eligible, the student must be enrolled at least half time in an eligible program of study and first borrow the maximum allowable through the Federal Direct Student Loan program. Repayment of principal and interest begins 30 to 60 days after the loan is fully disbursed with deferment and forbearance options available. Private (Alternative) Loan: A loan from a commercial, state-affiliated or institutional lender used to pay for up to the annual cost of education, less any financial aid received. Private loans usually require the applicant to be creditworthy or have a co-signer and have varying interest rates, fees and repayment options. Repayment of interest (and often principal) generally begins immediately, with some lenders offering deferment options for in-school periods. Federal Parent Loan (PLUS): A federal loan program that allows parents who have no adverse credit history to apply for up to the Cost of Attendance each year, less any financial aid. PLUS loans must be repaid with interest. Enrollment Level: Level of the degree-granting program in which a student is enrolled. Basic levels of enrollment include: undergraduate (students seeking an associate’s degree, a certificate, or a baccalaureate degree); post-baccalaureate (such as teacher certification); graduate (students working on a master’s degree or professional degree); and post-graduate (such as students enrolled in a doctoral program). The amounts and types of financial aid a student is eligible for is determined, in part, by their enrollment level. Enrollment Status: Academic workload (or course load), as defined by the institution, that a student is carrying for a defined academic period. This normally relates to the number of credit hours taken by a student during a given academic period. For the undergraduate student status is determined as follows: Full-time status = at least 12 credit hours Three-quarter time status = at least 9-11 credit hours Half-time status = at least 6-8 credit hours Less than half-time status = at least 1-5 credit hours Expected Family Contribution (EFC): A measure of how much the student and his or her family can be expected to contribute to the cost of the student’s education for the year. The EFC is calculated according to a formula specified in the law and is based upon the information provided by the student and his or her family during the FASFA filing process. Family Financial Responsibility: Many schools award institutional scholarships and grants based upon a more comprehensive calculation of family financial circumstances using information provided on the CSS PROFILE or the College’s own financial aid form. THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON DOES NOT USE THE CSS PROFILE. DO NOT FILL OUT A CSS PROFILE FOR ATTENDANCE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON. This can result in a higher (or lower) financial responsibility for the student (and his/her family) than the FAFSA might indicate with its Expected Family Contribution (EFC) estimate. Federal Pell Grant: A grant provided by the federal government to qualified undergraduate students who demonstrate exceptional financial need and have an Expected Family Contribution below a threshold designated annually by the U.S. Department of Education, based on the amount of program funds appropriated by Congress. Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG): A grant provided by the federal government to qualified undergraduate students who demonstrate exceptional financial need. Priority is given to Pell Grant recipients and funds must be awarded by the school in lowest EFC order. Federal Work-Study (FWS): A program that provides part-time employment to students attending institutions of higher education who need the earnings to help meet their costs of post secondary education and encourages students receiving FWS assistance to participate in community service activities. Gift Aid: Funds awarded to the student that do not have to be repaid, unless the student fails to meet certain terms, such as a service requirement, specified as a condition of the grant. Gift aid includes awards with titles such as grants, scholarships, remissions, waivers, etc. Gift aid can be awarded based upon many factors, including (but not limited to) financial need, academic excellence, athletic, musical, and theatrical talent, affiliation with various groups, or career aspirations. Grant: Gift aid awarded to the student that does not need to be repaid. Grants are typically based on financial need. Indirect Costs: Expenses incurred as a result of attendance that the student/family may pay to a third party (merchant, landlord, etc.) other than the college. Net Cost: Amount of direct and indirect costs remaining after all gift aid (scholarship and grant) is subtracted. Out-of-pocket Cost: Difference between the cost of attendance and all gift aid. Out-of-pocket cost can be covered through a variety of sources, including: savings, income and educational loans. Scholarship: Gift aid awarded to the student that does not need to be repaid. Scholarship awards are typically based on merit or a combination of merit and need, such as academic excellence, talent, affiliation with various groups, or career aspirations. Self-help: Financial aid in the form of loans or student employment. Loans are used to help pay the remaining net costs after gift aid is deducted. Student employment earnings (including Work-Study awards) are generally not deducted from billed costs but can be used to help cover indirect costs and are paid in the form of wages to the student. Verification: Process to confirm the accuracy of data provided by the applicant on the FAFSA. In order to complete the verification process, students are required to provide certain documents to the school for review. Resources Applying for Financial Aid Parent Plus Loan New Borrowers of Federal Student Loans Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA