Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Student Funding and Support Search Menu Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us Search Graduate Student Funding and Support Graduate Student Funding & Support Graduate students at Brown are offered a range of funding and support that varies by academic program. Graduate Student Funding & Support Graduate students at Brown are offered a range of funding and support that varies by academic program. Financial support is administered exclusively by each academic department or program through the Brown Graduate School or the School of Professional Studies. Graduate students are generally eligible for financial support in the form of tuition support, stipends, fellowships, assistantships, scholarship and/or proctorships. Doctoral students are offered five years of guaranteed financial support, including a stipend, tuition remission, health-services fee support, and health- and dental-insurance subsidies. Financial aid for master’s students is determined within each program. Brown’s Warren Alpert Medical School offers financial aid awards for future M.D.s, along with other financing options. Support for Ph.D. Students Students admitted to any of Brown’s Ph.D. programs are guaranteed five years of support including a stipend, tuition remission, health services fee and health insurance subsidy. Support for Master’s Students Financial aid for master’s students is determined within each program; the majority of students enrolled in master’s programs and engaged in non-degree study are self-supported. Financial Aid for Medical Students Visit the Warren Alpert Medical School website for information about financing your medical education. Additional Information Estimators & Calculators These tools help students estimate and calculate costs, billing and loan repayment. Types of Aid Determine the types of aid available to finance a master’s program at Brown including veteran benefits and private educational loans. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Student Funding & Support Open details for Graduate Student Funding & Support Bookmark this Page