COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Group Visits Section Menu Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Majors Tuition and Fees Visit Campus FAQ Admission Requirements Housing Scholarships Financial Aid Request Information Contact Admissions Thank you for your interest in Wichita State! Group visits are designed for groups of 10 or more students, as young as 6th grade. If you're bringing fewer than 10 students to campus, please sign up your students through our individual campus visit program. Virtual and in-person visits are available. You can select your preference on the sign-up form. If you're bringing Kindergarten through 5th grade students, we offer a self-guided tour experience. Before registering your community college, high school or middle school group, please review the visit information, tips and guidelines on this page. We look forward to hosting your group on campus! General guidelines and tips Group visits include an Admissions presentation and a 75-minute walking tour. Not offered on weekends or when the university is closed. Scheduled on a first-come, first-serve basis with priority given to high school groups. Encourage students to wear comfortable shoes, dress appropriately for the weather and bring any gear they feel is necessary for the visit day's forecast. Health and safety during your visit Wichita State University has recently updated their policies to stay aligned with Sedgwick County. While on-campus for your visit, please consider the following: Face Masks – Wichita State strongly encourages all people who are on campus to wear a face mask. The Office of Admissions does have a limited supply of disposable masks for visitors, should you or your guests want one. Physical Distancing – When possible, keep distance between those who are not in your immediate family. We also have plexiglass throughout the building to provide shields between staff and visitors during close interaction. Frequently Touched Surfaces – Our lobby, auditorium and restrooms are cleaned every day and throughout the day. Group Size – Please consider minimizing the number of people attending with you during your visit. This allows us to provide for greater social distancing while also giving as many students as possible an opportunity to visit our campus. Health – Our team is staying home if they have a fever or other symptoms common to COVID-19, and we would ask that you do the same. For more information about how Wichita State is addressing the pandemic, please visit wichita.edu/covid. Protecting you and our team is the top priority. We appreciate your patience as we navigate safety first for everyone. If you have any questions, please email jane.lickteig@wichita.edu or give us a call at 316-978-3085. We look forward to seeing you! Arriving for your visit You will receive a confirmation email from the group visit coordinator with details regarding where to check in the day of your visit. Please plan to arrive 15 minutes early to allow for time to unload students and take care of any personal needs prior to your visit. If your group is running late, please call us at 316-978-3085. If you arrive more than 15 minutes late, your presentation and / or tour will be shortened or cancelled, as our student tour guides are available based on their class schedules. Cancellations must be made 24 hours in advance. Parking on campus Visitor parking is available in any green / yellow lot, and there is an hourly charge to park in the parking garage. Bus parking is available south of Charles Koch Arena and at Eck Stadium. View our campus parking map Lunch Groups have the option to pay to eat lunch on campus during their visit. Your options include: Shocker Hall Dining: Our all-you-can-eat dining facility on campus. Please contact WSU Dining Services at 316-978-3477 to arrange lunch tickets if your group wishes to eat in Shocker Hall. Rhatigan Student Center: Includes Chick-fil-A, Freddy’s Frozen Custard, Panda Express, Pizza Hut, Starbucks and Shocker Sports Grill and Lanes. View campus dining options Contact us Jane Lickteig Recruitment Event Specialist jane.lickteig@wichita.edu 316-978-7629 Sign up Community College High School 6th to 8th* * Please note that 6th to 8th Group Visits are $5 per student K to 5th Self-Guided Tour Want to come to campus, but don't have time to do a full admissions visit? Check out our self-guided tour 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©