Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Catholic Home Faith Communities Catholic Engaging in the University’s Jesuit Catholic tradition allows students the opportunity to deepen their faith lives while also developing and enhancing relationships with themselves and others. Campus Ministry offers a range of experiences allowing students the chance to share in prayer, reflection, and community building. Christian Life Community CLC offers students a space to engage in weekly intentional and reflective conversations with peers. Learn more Gratia Plena The purpose of Gratia Plena is to build a community of women who are committed to learning about and growing in their Catholic faith together. Learn more Ignatian Society At Boston College, graduates of Jesuit high schools are encouraged to continue in the Jesuit tradition of being men and women for others and sharing the spirit that formed them in their high schools via involvement with the Ignatian Society. Learn more Knights of Columbus The Boston College Knights of Columbus is an international fraternal service organization committed to the principles of charity, fraternity, unity, and patriotism. Learn more St. Thomas More Society The St. Thomas More Society (STM) is dedicated to promoting the rich heritage of the Catholic faith on campus. Learn more Sons of St. Patrick The Sons of St. Patrick is a society of Catholic gentlemen dedicated to fostering a community of virtue, character, and faith among our peers and surrounding society. Learn more Una Voce Una Voce BC, Latin for "With One Voice," offers the Latin Mass at BC on certain Saturdays and Holidays during the academic year. It is held in St. Joseph's Chapel. Learn more Agape Latte A monthly event designed for students seeking to learn more about faith and religion in an inviting social environment. Learn More Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College