Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement SPH Policies and Guidelines Events Conversations with ... National Public Health Week 2022 Commencement 2022 Conversations with ... For his Conversations with ... series, Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the School of Public Health, joins distinguished expert guests in conversation on various aspects of the COVID-19 pandemic and other public health topics. Watch past talks below. Join the conversations: March 15, 2022 A Conversation with Dr. Seth Berkley A pioneer in global public health for more than 35 years, Dr. Seth Berkley has been a champion of equitable access to vaccines and of innovation, and a driving force to improve the way the world prevents and responds to infectious disease. A medical doctor and infectious disease epidemiologist, Dr. Berkley joined Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance as its CEO in August 2011. Under his leadership, Gavi has accelerated global immunization access in its mission to save lives, reduce poverty and protect the world against the threat of epidemics and pandemics. Watch on YouTube February 14, 2022 A Conversation with Dr. James Gavin, III Please join Dr. Ashish K. Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, for a conversation with Dr. James Gavin, clinical professor of medicine at Emory University School of Medicine and Principal, J.R. Gavin & Associates, LLC. He also serves as Chief Medical Officer of Healing Our Village, Inc. He served as President and CEO of the Morehouse School of Medicine in Atlanta. Watch the video November 30, 2021 A Conversation with Dr. Sapna Desai Please join Dr. Ashish K. Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, for a conversation with Dr. Sapna Desai, a public health researcher and practitioner based at the Population Council in New Delhi, India, where she focuses on women’s health, community-based interventions and health systems Watch the video October 14, 2021 A Conversation with Dr. Noubar Afeyan As a key advisory panel to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), recommended booster shots for those who received the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine, Dr. Ashish Jha, Dean of the Brown School of Public Health, spoke with Noubar Afeyan, CEO of Flagship Pioneering, the company that created and nurtured Moderna, as part of the Dean’s conversation series. Watch the Video September 22, 2021 A Conversation with Dr. Zeynep Tüfekçi Dean Ashish K. Jha was joined for a conversation with Dr. Zeynep Tüfekçi, McColl Term Associate Professor at the UNC School of Information and Library Science, and Contributing opinion writer at The Atlantic and The New York Times. They discuss what we learned from the COVID-19 pandemic, how we’re still learning (and not learning) lessons, and how we do better in future health crises. Watch the Video May 18, 2021 A Conversation with Dr. Gökhan Hotamışlıgil Dr. Ashish K. Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, was joined for a conversation on what the pandemic taught us about the role of basic science in public health with Gökhan Hotamışlıgil, MD, PhD, James S. Simmons Professor, Department of Molecular Metabolism and Director of the Sabri Ülker Center for Metabolic Research at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. An interactive audience Q&A followed the talk. Watch the Video February 11, 2021 A Conversation with Dr. Helene D. Gayle Dr. Helene D. Gayle, MD has been president and CEO of The Chicago Community Trust, one of the nation’s oldest and largest community foundations, since October 2017. Under her leadership, the Trust has adopted a new strategic focus on closing the racial and ethnic wealth gap in the Chicago region. For almost a decade, she was president and CEO of CARE, a leading international humanitarian organization. An expert on global development, humanitarian and health issues, Dr. Gayle spent 20 years with the Centers for Disease Control, working primarily on HIV/AIDS. She worked at the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, directing programs on HIV/AIDS and other global health issues. She also launched the McKinsey Social Initiative (now McKinsey.org), a nonprofit that builds partnerships for social impact. Watch the video December 9, 2020 A Conversation with Dr. Valerie Montgomery Rice Valerie Montgomery Rice, MD, FACOG, provides a valuable combination of experience at the highest levels of patient care and medical research, as well as organizational management and public health policy. Marrying her transformational leadership acumen and strategic thinking to tackle challenging management issues, she has a track record of redesigning complex organizations’ infrastructures to reflect the needs of evolving strategic environments and position the organization for success through sustainability tactics. Watch the video October 20, 2020 A Conversation with Wendy Schiller Dean Ashish Jha and Professor Wendy Schiller, PhD take stock of current conditions in the United States and discuss their political ramifications as well as the ongoing impact of the pandemic on patients and health care professionals on the front lines. Watch the video October 1, 2020 A Conversation with Heidi J. Larson, PhD Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the School of Public Health, spoke with Heidi J. Larson, Director of the Vaccine Confidence Project at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine. Watch the video August 7, 2020 A Conversation with Dr. Anthony S. Fauci In an online forum hosted by Brown University President Christina Paxson and Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the School of Public Health, Dr. Anthony Fauci talked about the prevalence of the virus in the U.S. and what people can do to slow the spread. Watch the video in its entirety, or jump to a specific time that interests you: Watch the video About By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement SPH Policies and Guidelines Events Conversations with ... National Public Health Week 2022 Commencement 2022 School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top