Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Academic Success Center Menu Toggle Search Resources SI Schedule Tutoring Profile Main navigation About Mission & Values Meet the ASC Team Work for the ASC Find Us Academic Coaching & Outreach Meet with a Coach Resources & Worksheets Workshops Meet Our Coaches Supplemental Instruction Tutoring Services Psych 131 Academic Intervention Self-Assessment for Students AISA for Students This section will assist you if you were placed on academic warning or probation. Be sure to contact your academic adviser with questions about your academic status. Warning or Probation If you have been placed on academic warning or probation, you must: Complete the online Academic Intervention Self-Assessment (AISA) available through AccessPlus. Meet with your academic adviser within the first 10 days of class this semester. Be prepared to discuss your completed Academic Intervention Self-Assessment with your adviser. You are required to meet with your academic adviser for several important reasons: To evaluate your current class schedule and making changes if needed, To identify obstacles from the previous semester that negatively impacted your academic success, and To receive academic success strategies and other resources from your adviser After visiting with your adviser, please feel free to use our online resources to aid in your semester plan. In addition, you are welcome to make an academic coaching appointment by calling the Academic Success Center at: 515-294-6624. To Access the AISA Log into AccessPlus. Under 'Grades & Transcripts', you will find an 'Academic Intervention' link. Review the message in AccessPlus. Click 'Continue' to be directed to the self-assessment system. Note: A new window will open and provide secure access to complete the self-assessment. Common questions related to the AISA can be found here. Back to the AISA main page! Iowa State University Academic Success Center Dean of Students Office Contact Academic Success Center 1060 Hixson Lied Student Success Center 515-294-6624 success@iastate.edu Hours Academic Year: 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Summer and Breaks: 7:30 am- 4:00 pm Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...