Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Natural Sciences Research Discovery Without Limits Our researchers collaborate with colleagues across the University and beyond to explore the most pressing scientific issues of our time, including climate change, cognition, space, and viruses and diseases. Research Profiles F. Duncan Haldane . Professor of Physics F. Duncan Haldane was awakened by an early-morning call in October 2016 informing him that he had been chosen as a Nobel laureate in physics. Then he headed off to campus to teach a regularly scheduled class, to the delight of his students. Learn More Bonnie Bassler . Bonnie Bassler, chair of the Department of Molecular Biology and winner of the Shaw Prize, has been recognized for her pioneering work in quorum sensing, a widespread process that bacteria use for cell-to-cell communication. Learn More Manjul Bhargava . Manjul Bhargava, winner of the Fields Medal for mathematics, brings high mathematical concepts down to earth in a class he has taught on magic tricks and games. Learn More Angelina Sylvain . Angelina Sylvain, a graduate student in the Princeton Neuroscience Institute, trains C. elegans roundworms to associate food with the smell of butterscotch for her studies of the neural circuits involved in learning and memory. Learn More Waseem Bakr . Physicist Waseem Bakr and his team of students and postdoctoral researchers use a system of lasers and magnets to cool and slow down the movement of atoms, enabling the exploration of fundamental physics that could someday lead to applications such as superconductors and quantum computers. Learn More Evan Saitta . For his senior thesis, Evan Saitta, an ecology and evolutionary biology major, painstakingly analyzed 150 million-year-old fossils to determine whether a single anatomical difference found in a species of Stegosaurus indicates if male and female individuals were physically distinct. The work could provide a new understanding of the physiology and lifestyle of Stegosaurus. Learn More Natural Sciences Research Our renowned physicists delve into the worlds of particles as our astrophysical scientists turn toward the limitless universe. Chemists and biologists explore the inner workings of genes and microorganisms. Geoscientists unravel how the planet formed and behaves, while ecologists and evolutionary biologists expand our understanding of life. Neuroscientists study the complex machinery of the brain as our mathematicians lead their fields with new insights. Learn More Research at Princeton Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice