Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Professional & Continuing Education Continuing Education right arrow down arrow Contact Us OLLI right arrow down arrow About OLLI right arrow down arrow Locations Contact Us History, Mission & Vision Board of Trustees FAQs Classes & Registration Member Resources right arrow down arrow Member Handbook Class Handouts Teach for OLLI right arrow down arrow Moderator Info and Resources Support right arrow down arrow OLLI Donors Communiversity right arrow down arrow COURSES right arrow down arrow Arts & Handicrafts right arrow down arrow Floral Arranging Beginning Stained Glass Frame Loom Weaving Mosaics Wire Jewelry: Earrings Drawing Comics Learn to Crochet Art History at CAM Candlemaking Industrial Sewing Intro to Stained Glass Learn to Knit 1 & 2 Sketchbook Workshop Woodworking Computerized Woodworking Soldering & Circuits Laser Cutting & Engraving Soap Making Embroidery Summer Anklet Jewelry Mixed Media Acrylic Painting Color Mixing Intro to Watercolor Paint the Masters: Monet Paint the Masters: Renoir Paint the Masters: Van Gogh Painting Your Pet's Portrait Plein Air Painting Watercolor Florals Drawing Level 1 & 2 Music & Dance right arrow down arrow Ukulele : Level 1 & 2 Guitar: Level 1 & 2 Argentine Tango Dance Fiddling: Level 1 & 2 Mandolin: Level 1 & 2 Country Two-Step Wedding Dance Workshop Belly Dance Special Interest & History right arrow down arrow Cincinnati's Lost Architects Detective Series: 60s Murders History of FBI Cincinnati Chili Pyramid Hill Riding Tour Civil War: Morgan's Raid Cincinnati Mural Tour Photography right arrow down arrow Smartphone Photography 1 & 2 Photography: Level 1 & 2 Intermediate Photography Photo Retouching Fitness & Health right arrow down arrow Tai Chi Zumba & Bootcamp Lite Posture: Alexander Technique Belly Dancing Personal Development right arrow down arrow Insight Meditation Introduction to Voice Overs Makeup for Summer Journaling for Stress Relief How to Buy a Used Car Improv! Acting Personal Colors for Fashion Create Life You Love Personal Energy System Astrology Birthchart Care for Aging Skin Angel Cards Workshop Food & Drink right arrow down arrow Mozzarella Cheese Making Soft Cheese Making Sourdough Bread Making Winemaking at Home Feta Cheese Making Bourbon History & Tasting Home & Garden right arrow down arrow Organize Your Home Cactus & Succulent Centerpiece Staghorn Fern Wall Art Terrarium Lamps DIY Home Repairs Spring Ornithology Native Plant Tour Moss & Air Fern Wall Art Growing an Herb Garden Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Language right arrow down arrow Spanish: Level 1 Italian Level 1 & 2 Discover Sign Language Conversational French German: Level 1 & 2 English as a Second Language Sports right arrow down arrow Golf for All Levels Nature & Science right arrow down arrow Behind the Scenes at the Observatory Spring Birdwatching Cincinnati Moundbuilders Native Plant Tour Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Plants of Ohio Business & Finance right arrow down arrow Basic Computer Skills Financial Literacy Job Search Estate Planning Buying Your First Home Real Estate Investment Gift Certificates Travel right arrow down arrow Travel Health Travel Solo for Women Travel in Italy Lifelong Learning Online Ways to Register Location of Courses Frequently Asked Questions Suggest a Class Class Evaluation Teach a Class Test Prep right arrow down arrow LSAT TOEFL GRE/GMAT ACT SAT MCAT College Essay Writing CompTIA® Certification Prep Continuing Education for Teachers right arrow down arrow Arlitt Professional Educator Learning Series (APELS) Gifted Education Professional Development K-12 Blended & Beyond Teaching Learning Series Remote Teaching Learning Webinars Professional Development right arrow down arrow Healthcare & Fitness right arrow down arrow NASM Certified Personal Trainer Pharmacy Technician Certified Physical Therapy Aide Certified Nutrition Coach Business Management & Operations right arrow down arrow Lean Six Sigma Call Center Supervisor Certified Administrative Professional HVAC/R Training Marketing Technology Skills & Applications right arrow down arrow Adobe Certification Courses Microsoft Excel Google IT Support IT Fundamentals ITIL v4 Framework DevOps Certification Autodesk Revit Microsoft Power Platform School of IT: Tech Workforce Development right arrow down arrow Azure Cloud Technology Cybersecurity Bootcamp Networking Bootcamp Microsoft Excel Certification Project Management Certification (CAPM®) IMAP - Microcredentials Aspire Talent Acceleration Program right arrow down arrow For Employer Partners For Adult Learners Student Resources Home » About UC » Office of Professional and Continuing Education » OLLI » Teach For OLLI » Moderator Info & Resources Set Navigation title in component About OLLI Locations Contact Us History, Mission & Vision Board of Trustees FAQs Classes & Registration Member Resources Member Handbook Class Handouts Teach for OLLI Moderator Info and Resources Support OLLI Donors Moderator Info and Resources The success of OLLI depends entirely on the volunteers who teach. Before each term, the Curriculum Committee offers a session for new moderators to help familiarize them with how OLLI works and offer useful guidelines and tips for planning and running OLLI courses. FEEDBACK FORM FOR CURRENT MODERATORS Contact right arrow down arrow Osher Lifelong Learning Institute University of Cincinnati PO Box 210093 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0093 Phone: 513-556-9186 Email: olli@uc.edu or curriculumatucolli@gmail.com Parking & Locations right arrow down arrow Find addresses, maps, and parking information for all OLLI venues here. Victory Parkway Campus (VPC): Park in the OLLI Lot or Visitor Lot accessed from Cypress Street. You will be provided a hangtag for parking, or you may write "OLLI PARKING" on a piece of paper and leave it on your dashboard. Adath Israel (ADI): Park at the BACK of the building. The entrance to the education wing where we hold classes is the last door on your left as you face the building from the back parking lot. ADI is a kosher facility, so absolutely NO food or drink may be brought into the building. Classroom Assignments right arrow down arrow Room assignments are posted online and are available as handouts during the first week of each quarter at each venue. In general, you may enter your classroom to set up no earlier than 10 to 15 minutes before your class begins. If another class is still in the room, please wait for them to exit before entering. Class Cancellations right arrow down arrow Inclement Weather: If UC is closed or delayed for weather, then all OLLI classes are cancelled while UC is closed. Information about UC closings may be found on local media or by calling 513-556-3333. Note: Adath Israel may close when UC is open: check local media. Moderators of multi-week courses who wish to cancel their classes when UC is open are responsible for notifying all students in their classes by email or phone. Please make a decision by 6:30 a.m. on the day of your class and notify your students and the office promptly. Moderator Illness or Emergency: Multi-week moderators: email or call your students as soon as possible to let them know that the class will not meet. If you are unable to do so, call the OLLI office at 513-556-9186. We encourage you to have a plan for emergency contact procedures and communicate it to your class at the first session. One-time program presenters: call your OLLI contact or the OLLI office at 513-556-9186 as early as possible. Holidays: When UC is closed for a holiday, OLLI classes do not meet at Victory Parkway Campus. Adath Israel is closed for most Jewish holidays. Make-Up Classes: In most cases, one additional class session can be added at the end of the term to make up classes missed because of weather, illness, travel, or holidays. You may decide with your class participants about whether or not to make up missed classes. Class Rosters for Moderators of Multi-Week Courses right arrow down arrow About a week before your course begins, you should receive an email with the names, email addresses, and phone numbers of the people registered for your class at that time. Call the OLLI office at 513-556-9186 if you do not receive this email. Please take roll on the first two days of class, collecting names and contact information for anyone who does not appear on your list, and informing the OLLI office so we can update enrollment information. Use this roster to share information with your students. Equipment right arrow down arrow Your assigned classroom should contain the audiovisual equipment you requested. Assistance with equipment is available on a limited basis, so please attend any offered training sessions. A volunteer will be present to assist moderators of one-time programs. Photocopies right arrow down arrow Please keep handouts to a minimum. Save a tree! Best choice: post your handouts or slides on the Member Resources/Class Handouts page of the OLLI website. Email PDF, PPT, or Word Doc to olli@uc.edu for posting. To have copies made by the office, you must provide the originals at least one week in advance and pick up the copies from the office at 2220 Victory Pkwy., Admin 207, Cincinnati, OH 45206. Email print job with date needed to olli@uc.edu. As a last resort, you may photocopy handouts at a commercial outlet, save the receipts, and submit them to the office for reimbursement (up to $50) at the end of your course. Honoraria right arrow down arrow All moderators teach for OLLI as volunteers, so no fees or honoraria are paid. Benefits right arrow down arrow Moderators of multi-week courses are offered a free membership during any term that they teach. We are grateful to all the volunteers who share their knowledge and passions with the OLLI community. Without you, OLLI could not exist. THANK YOU! Resources for Moderators Zoom Training for Moderators Practical Information for OLLI Moderators Expectations for Moderators Course Feedback will be via SurveyMonkey link provided to students New Moderator Orientation Gateways Orientation session for new moderators of multiweek courses is May 27, 1-3:30 pm. Successful completion of Gateways is required before proposals will will be scheduled. Safety and Emergency Procedures UC Victory Parkway Campus Safety Talk to Moderators Adath Israel (ADI) University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top