Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Faculty & Research Faculty Research Featured Topics Academic Units …→ Harvard Business School→ Faculty & Research→ Faculty Faculty Positions Hayley Blunden Doctoral Student Doctoral Student Read more Hayley Blunden is a doctoral candidate in Organizational Behavior at Harvard Business School. For more information about Hayley's research and teaching, please visit her website: https://www.hayleyblunden.com/. Hayley studies how leaders can make challenging workplace interactions more productive. In her research spanning the domains of advice, feedback, voice, and virtual work, she seeks to improve the outcomes of workplace interactions by examining them as situated, relational processes. Her research has been published in Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, and Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, and has been featured by Harvard Business Review, The Economist, CNBC, and Forbes. Hayley has also served as an Instructor of Management and Communication at the Harvard Extension School, where she taught The Art of Communication, a leadership class for working professionals. Prior to pursuing her graduate studies, Hayley worked in a variety of organizational contexts. She has held positions in internal strategy, consulting, and finance, and has experience working in organizations ranging from a small startup to a Fortune 100 firm. Hayley earned her BA in Economics and Media Studies from The University of Virginia and an MBA from Columbia Business School. Less +1 →Send Email Contact Information Send Email Hayley Blunden is a doctoral candidate in Organizational Behavior at Harvard Business School. For more information about Hayley's research and teaching, please visit her website: https://www.hayleyblunden.com/. Hayley studies how leaders can make challenging workplace interactions more productive. In her research spanning the domains of advice, feedback, voice, and virtual work, she seeks to improve the outcomes of workplace interactions by examining them as situated, relational processes. Her research has been published in Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, and Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, and has been featured by Harvard Business Review, The Economist, CNBC, and Forbes. Hayley has also served as an Instructor of Management and Communication at the Harvard Extension School, where she taught The Art of Communication, a leadership class for working professionals. Prior to pursuing her graduate studies, Hayley worked in a variety of organizational contexts. She has held positions in internal strategy, consulting, and finance, and has experience working in organizations ranging from a small startup to a Fortune 100 firm. Hayley earned her BA in Economics and Media Studies from The University of Virginia and an MBA from Columbia Business School. Additional Information CV_0821 Area of Study Organizational Behavior Psychology Areas of Interest organizational behavior ǁ Harvard Business School Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College