COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Institutional Review Board (IRB) Section Menu Institutional Review Board (IRB) Office of Research Home Page The Institutional Review Board is responsible for reviewing research involving human subjects and enforcing the requirement of informed consent to assure that the rights and welfare of subjects who participate in research conducted by WSU faculty, staff and students are protected and that the University is in compliance with federal requirements (Title 45 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 46). **Funded projects need IRB approval prior to spending** The IRB meets on the fourth Monday of the month. Please submit all documents to the IRB inbox at least 2 weeks before the meeting (deadline dates below) to allow time for administrative review. WSU Institutional Review Board (IRB) Response to COVID-19 (Coronavirus) and Human Subjects Research July 1, 2021 The WSU Institutional Review Board has developed guidelines to restore human subject research that involves direct person-to-person interactions. The IRB’s main purpose is to protect the welfare of human subjects recruited to participate in research activities at WSU. As the current pandemic has created additional levels of risk associated with person-to-person interaction, the IRB is striving to maximize the safety of participants as well as researchers. Restoration will consist of three phases that are meant to reflect the currently recommended practices for the university community. Phase 1 was effective June 5, 2020. Phase 2 was effective July 1, 2020. Phase 3 is effective July 1, 2021. Phase 1 Phase 1 – (Effective June 5, 2020): Researchers are permitted to conduct research studies involving direct person-to-person interactions only if physical distancing of six feet or more between all people involved (i.e., researchers and participants) can be achieved. This may include focus groups or other types of research where direct physical contact is not necessary. (A VPP must be submitted to the IRB for review and approval prior to the start date.) During Phases 1 and 2, all principal investigators will need to submit a Virus Protection Plan (VPP) to the IRB before resuming ongoing research or along with an application for new research. The VPP must include the following: List the precautions that will be taken to prevent transmission of Covid-19. The VPP should address physical distancing, PPE, and disinfecting protocol. The Pre-Screening Questions Tool available at wichita.edu/irb should be used to determine if participants have had known contact with someone who recently acquired Covid-19. Everyone who comes into the testing area (including researchers) must be logged using the Contact Tracking Log available at wichita.edu/irb so everyone can be properly notified in case there is an instance of infection that needs to be traced. This will include follow-up with participants at 7 and 14 days to see if there are any signs of illness. (If this is not possible, state in your plan why and what you will do instead.) Phase 2 Phase 2 – (Effective July 1, 2020): As conditions improve, researchers will be able to conduct studies without maintaining physical distancing. However, precautions to prevent viral spread (e.g., PPE, disinfecting, etc.) will still need to be taken. (A VPP must be submitted to the IRB for review and approval prior to the start date.) During Phases 1 and 2, all principal investigators will need to submit a Virus Protection Plan (VPP) to the IRB before resuming ongoing research or along with an application for new research. The VPP must include the following: List the precautions that will be taken to prevent transmission of Covid-19. The VPP should address physical distancing, PPE, and disinfecting protocol. The Pre-Screening Questions Tool available at wichita.edu/irb should be used to determine if participants have had known contact with someone who recently acquired Covid-19. Everyone who comes into the testing area (including researchers) must be logged using the Contact Tracking Log available at wichita.edu/irb so everyone can be properly notified in case there is an instance of infection that needs to be traced. This will include follow-up with participants at 7 and 14 days to see if there are any signs of illness. (If this is not possible, state in your plan why and what you will do instead.) Authorization to conduct research will be granted following review of the VPP by the IRB. Phase 3: (Effective July 1, 2021): Increased vaccination rates have continued to rise and there has been an easing of restrictions from the CDC. WSU has followed suit and rescinded all mandates requiring masks, social distancing and mass gathering limitations on campus. The IRB is following suit and is lifting restrictions for Human Subjects Research. However, the IRB is still strongly encouraging researchers to engage in the following practices whenever possible to prevent the transmission of COVID-19: Conduct pre-screen questions - prior to participants coming to campus, if possible. Participants, PI, or research staff that report any symptoms of Covid-19 or possible exposure within the last 14 days should not be permitted to participate in human subject research at Wichita State University. Each sensor, electrode, machine/equipment proposed to be utilized in the approved IRB application should be cleaned with disinfecting wipes (first priority) or hand sanitizer containing at least 60% alcohol. (if applicable) Everyone is still encouraged to wear a mask, face shield, and gloves. Check temperatures of participants and research staff when possible. Keep at least 6 feet distance when possible. Please contact irb@wichita.edu with any questions. IMPORTANT –permissions for human subjects activities may change on a day-to-day, or week-to-week basis, based on the current county/city/state or federal outlook. Please keep a close eye on your email and the IRB website for more information. IRB Applications & Guides New Study Application Continuation Application Project Status Report Amendment Application Final Report Event Reporting Oversight Determination Form Request for Clearance – Class Projects Collaborations and IRB Reciprocity Reliance FAQ Common Form for WSU/KUMC/Ascension Via Christi Research Scientific Merit Form Reliance Studies IRB Guides CITI Human Subjects Training Instructions Image Release FAQ Study close-out Study Recruitment Advertisements Comparison: Characteristics of human subject research vs. other project types W-9 Form Flyer Template Letter of Support Template Exempt Categories Chart Consent Form Templates (Updated June 2020) Consent Form Template Consent Form - Qualtrics Survey Consent Form - Paper Survey Consent Form - Other Online Survey Sample Assent Form WSU Title IX Exception Documents Title IX Reporting Exception for Research Information Guidelines for Researchers Application for Exception Consent Form for Title IX Reporting Exception Participant Payment Documents WSU Study Request Form Greenphire Information Sheet Greenphire ClinCard Cardholder FAQ's Greenphire Instructions SSN Waiver Form For technical help with these forms please contact Shocker Technical Assistance Center at (316) 978-4357 or helpdesk@wichita.edu. IRB Resources & Links Federal Regulations and Guidelines; 45 CFR 46: Protection of Human Subjects http://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/humansubjects/guidance/45cfr46.html The Belmont Report: Ethical Principles and Guidelines for the Protection of Human Subjects of Research http://ohsr.od.nih.gov/guidelines/belmont.html Protecting Personal Health Information in Research-Understanding the HIPAA Privacy Rule http://privacyruleandresearch.nih.gov/pdf/HIPAA_Privacy_Rule_Booklet.pdf IRB FAQ When is Review Required? All research and research-related activities involving human subjects must be reviewed and approved by the IRB in writing prior to initiation of a project. Review by the IRB is required whether a project is conducted by faculty members, graduate students, undergraduate students, or staff. It is required whether the project receives external funding, internal funding, or no funding. Who Should Complete the Application? This application should be completed by the principal investigator. If that is a student, the application must list the student's faculty sponsor as principal investigator and the student as co-principal investigator, and should be approved and signed by the named faculty sponsor. What is the Oversight Determination Form? If you believe your study is Not Human Subject's Research or may qualify for Program Evaluation or Quality Improvement, then fill out the Oversight Determination form rather than the New Study application. What to Submit? A scanned copy with electronic signature(s) and all supporitng materials must be sent to the IRB In-Box: irb@wichita.edu Supporting materials include, but are not limited to, informed consent forms, questionnaires, survey instruments, letters of approval from cooperating institutions/agencies, etc. When are Full Reviews Required? Full IRB review is required for all research posing greater than minimal risk to subjects. In addition, full review is required for all research activities involving vulnerable subject populations, including, but not limited to, pregnant women, prisoners, and psychiatric patients. Expedited IRB review is provided for research that presents no more than minimal risk to subjects, and involves only procedures listed in one or more of the following categories: Research involving materials (data, documents, records, or specimens) that have been collected, or will be collected solely for non research purposes (such as medical treatment or diagnosis); Collection of data from voice, video, digital, or image recordings made for research purposes; Research on individual or group characteristics or behavior (including, but not limited to, research on perception, cognition, motivation, identity, language, communication, cultural beliefs or practices, and social behavior) or research employing survey, interview, oral history, focus group, program evaluation, human factors evaluation, or quality assurance methodologies; Clinical studies of drugs and medical devices only when a new drug application (21 CFR Part 312) is not required; Clinical studies on medical devices for which an investigational device exemption application is not required or the medical device is cleared/approved for marketing; Collection of blood samples by finger stick, heel stick, ear stick, or venipuncture from healthy, non pregnant adults who weigh at least 110 pounds Collection of biological specimens for research purposes by noninvasive means, such as hair and nail clippings, teeth, excreta, and external secretions (including sweat and saliva); Collection of data through noninvasive procedures (not involving general anesthesia or sedation) routinely employed in clinical practice, excluding procedures involving x-rays or microwaves, and Continuing review of research previously approved by the convened IRB. Exempt review means exempt from full IRB review, for the following categories (see the Exempt Categories chart under IRB guides for more information): Research conducted in established or commonly accepted educational settings that specifically involves normal educational practices that are not likely to adversely impact students' opportunity to learn required educational content or the assessment of educators who provide instruction, involving normal educational practices. This includes most research on regular and special education instructional strategies and research on the effectiveness of or the comparison among instructional techniques, curricula or classroom management methods. Research that only includes interactions involving educational tests (cognitive, diagnostic, aptitude, achievement), survey procedures, interview procedures, or observation of public behavior (including visual or auditory recording). This category does not include interventions, only interactions. Please Note: the only research activities involving children that may fall under this exemption are those involving educational tests or observation of public behavior where the investigators do not participate in the activity being observed. Research involving benign behavioral interventions in conjunction with the collection of information from an adult subject through verbal or written responses (including data entry) or audiovisual recording if the subject prospectively agrees to the intervention and information collection. Please Note: research activities involving children do not qualify under this exemption. Secondary research for which consent is not required: Secondary research uses of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens. This category allows for both retrospective and prospective secondary uses. Research and demonstration projects that are conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency, or otherwise subject to the approval of department or agency heads, and that are designed to study, evaluate, improve, or otherwise examine public benefit or service programs. Note: these must be posted on a Federal Web site. Taste and food quality evaluation and consumer acceptance studies. What is Informed Consent? Every researcher (faculty, staff, or student) at WSU must obtain the informed consent of any human subject used in research before involving that person in the research project. The investigator must ensure that the circumstances under which consent is sought will provide the subjects (or their representative) with sufficient opportunity to consider whether or not to participate. Informed consent language and its documentation (especially explanation of the study's purpose, duration, experimental procedures, alternatives, risks, and benefits) must be written in "lay language", i.e. understandable to the people being asked to participate. The written presentation of information is used to document the basis for consent and for the subjects' future reference. If the subject is a child or minor, an assent form must be signed to accompany the parent/guardian consent form. Under certain circumstances, the use of written consent documents may be waived. All waivers must be approved by the IRB, and requests for waiver must be fully justified by the researcher when submitting an application to the IRB. Waiver of written consent procedures does not imply waiver of the researchers' responsibility to obtain consent from the subject. Wherever practicable, when a written informed consent form is waived, a cover letter should be submitted to subjects which outlines the purpose and procedures of the project including a statement indicating that completion of the survey and/or return of the questionnaire indicates consent to participate in the study. How long does it take to get IRB approval? Turnaround times vary depending on the type of review required (Exempt, Expedited or Full Committee), the complexity of the study, and the time of year. The more time spent by the investigator thinking through the project and creating a complete application package, the faster the review process will go. Being sure all investigators have completed CITI training will also speed up the process. Please plan ahead and allow several weeks for any submission. If you have a specific deadline your project needs to be approved by, please state that clearly in the application and/or the submission email. Exempt studies– exempt studies do not have to be sent out to a committee reviewer and are reviewed and approved by IRB staff. You should allow a minimum of 7-10 days for an exempt study review. Expedited studies– expedited studies are reviewed first by IRB staff and administrative feedback is generally provided to the applicant within 7 days. If you do not hear back in that time, please follow-up to be sure we received your submission. IRB staff will let you know when your study has gone out for review. You should have reviewer feedback within 2 weeks. You should allow a minimum of three weeks for an expedited study review. Full Committee studies– these studies are reviewed by the full committee which meets monthly (deadlines are on the front page of the IRB website). Please submit your study on or before the deadline to give time for IRB staff to provide you with administrative feedback before the meeting. You should receive administrative feedback within 7 days of submission. After the committee meeting, you should receive additional feedback or approval within 5 days. You should allow a minimum of 45 days for full committee study review. Exempt studies – exempt studies do not have to be sent out to a committee reviewer and are reviewed and approved by IRB staff. You should allow a minimum of 7-10 days for an exempt study review. Expedited studies – expedited studies are reviewed first by IRB staff and administrative feedback is generally provided to the applicant within 7 days. If you do not hear back in that time, please follow-up to be sure we received your submission. IRB staff will let you know when your study has gone out for review. You should have reviewer feedback within 2 weeks. You should allow a minimum of three weeks for an expedited study review. Full Committee studies – these studies are reviewed by the full committee which meets monthly (deadlines are on the front page of the IRB website). Please submit your study on or before the deadline to give time for IRB staff to provide you with administrative feedback before the meeting. You should receive administrative feedback within 7 days of submission. After the committee meeting, you should receive additional feedback or approval within 5 days. You should allow a minimum of 45 days for full committee study review. September-November and February-April are our busiest times so additional time may be needed due to volume. During the summer months many reviewers are unavailable so review times may be longer. Are participants required to provide their SSN in order to be compensated for a study? - Due to IRS regulations, a SSN is usually required in order to receive payment as a research participant. In limited situations, a waiver of this requirement may be requested but this is rare. Please contact Kristie Courtney at 316-978-5988 to discuss your concerns and see if a waiver may be applicable in your situation. Also see the SSN waiver document found under the IRB Applications & Guides tab. The Institutional Review Board Committee For more information or questions please call: Dr. Michael Rogers IRB Chairperson 316-978-5959 Linda Steinacher IRB/IACUC Administrator Office of Research 316-978-7434 Summer & Fall 2022 IRB Meeting Deadlines: June 13 July 11 August 8 September 12 October 10 November 7 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©