Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Diversity & Inclusion Menu Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It! Baylor>Diversity & Inclusion>Resources>for Religiously Diverse Students Resources for Religiously Diverse Students Annual Faith Traditions Reception Each fall, the President's Office, University Chaplain, and Better Together BU host a reception to celebrate the rich cultural diversity found throughout the world and reflected in the Baylor family. Students are invited to join President Livingstone, Dr. Burt Burleson, and other supportive staff and faculty to make connections within the Baylor community. Better Together BU Better Together is our on campus group that is part of a national network of colleges and universities who are passionate about religious and interfaith literacy, sharing our stories, working together to solve global issues, and becoming better leaders and citizens. This group offers students opportunities to reflect on their own culture, community, and sense of “self” and to develop a deeper understanding and appreciation for each other. Becoming literate in one’s own religious tradition and the tradition of others equips men and women to engage in national and international life in a meaningful and thoughtful way. Our advisory board is composed of staff, faculty, and community members who fully support the mission of Better Together and serve as excellent resources for students. There are also staff associates, faculty associates, and faculty fellows. Calendar of Religious Observances Within a diverse community, we recognize the need to be aware of the important celebrations and holy days that members of our community observe. We offer a monthly calendar of religious observances that will help our community care for one another. Communities of Faith Find a community in Waco and the larger Central Texas area that will help you deepen your spiritual journey during your time at Baylor. Interfaith Reading Room Located on the second floor of the Poage Library, the Interfaith Reading Room is a space for students of all faith backgrounds to study, meet with one another, or use the reflection room. We know space is important, and we hope you find this to be a place of hospitality and welcome during your busy day. The Reading Room is also the meeting place of Better Together BU. They meet every other Tuesday at 6pm. Contact Spirituality and Public Life in the Office of Spiritual Life for more information. Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It!