Skip to main content UTS: Promo Links COVID-19 Updates Get Involved Search terms Search icon University of Texas System Toggle navigation Primary Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices Breadcrumbs Home UT System Offices Page title Employee Benefits Main page content Welcome to UT Benefits Learn more about your coverage for COVID-19 at-home test kits and COVID-19 antiviral medications > Insurance, Retirement and Wellness programs for University of Texas employees, retirees, and families. Insurance Living Well Retirement Resources BCBS of Texas Settlement Information > (updated: 07/07/2021) COVID-19: Key Benefits Details > (updated: 01/15/2022) Important MDLIVE Virtual Doctor 24/7 Provider Finder® UT SELECT Value Added Services Privacy Privacy Officer Designation Notice of Privacy Practices Highlights Work Healthy at Home Tips to protect your health and be productive working from home. Videos Visit the Video Library to learn about your Benefits plans and options. UT CONNECT Medical Plan UT CONNECT ACO Medical plan, optional choice available in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. Legal Disclaimer: This website provides only highlights of your benefits. It is not a contract. It does not change the terms of your benefit plans or the official documents that control them. Consult the individual plan booklets for specific details of benefit coverage. To permit a brief summary of benefits and services, use of actual contract language has been minimized. This summary comparison does not replace the legal documents that establish the plans. Final interpretation of any provision of the plans will be governed by the master policies and service agreements, which are on file in the office of the plan administrator. UT System reserves the right to change, suspend or terminate its benefits programs, in whole or in part, at any time and for any reason. UT Benefits menu link Office - Employee Benefits Employee Benefits Your UT Benefits Insurance Living Well UT Retirement Program Resources Video Library Forms and Publications About OEB Who to Contact Search UT Benefits HIPAA and Privacy Legal Notices Nondiscrimination Notice Manage your UT Benefits Manage your UT Benefits UTRetirement Manager Connect with UT System - Benefits Facebook Twitter YouTube UT System Links and Contact Information Academic Institutions UT Arlington UT Austin UT Dallas UT El Paso UT Permian Basin UT Rio Grande Valley UT San Antonio UT Tyler Health Institutions UT Southwestern UTMB Galveston UTHealth UT Health San Antonio UT MD Anderson UT System About SmartBook Office of the Chancellor Board of Regents Administration Offices Directory UT4U Outlook Web Access Info Center COVID-19 Site Policy Library Regents' Rules & Regulations Reports to the State Audit Reports Privacy Statement Linking Notice Copyright Accessibility Open Records Resources Careers Document Library seekUT UT System Dashboard Contact UT System State Links State of Texas Fraud Reporting Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Statewide Search University of Texas System New footer logo © 2022 The University of Texas System. 210 West 7th Street, Austin, Texas 78701-2982. (512) 499-4200 The University of Texas System Menu × Primary Mobile Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices