Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Political Science About Newsletter Tocqueville Forum Election Lab Faculty and Staff Professors Lecturers and Adjuncts Teaching Assistants Staff Faculty Resources Graduate Admissions Courses Degrees Expenses and Financial Aid FAQs Hints Forms Handbooks Publications Placements Job Candidates Undergraduate Undergraduate Advising Major and Minor Requirements Pre-Law Recommendations International Affairs Internship Program Course Descriptions FAQ Careers PolSci ListServer Student Organizations Alumni Profiles Research & Grad School Preparation News and Events News and Events Archive Services Computer Labs Emergency Information Password Reset Support Us UH Home College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Political Science Faculty and Staff Professors simas Faculty and Staff Professors Lecturers and Adjuncts Teaching Assistants Staff Faculty Resources Elizabeth N. Simas Associate Professor PGH 421 713-743-3913 ensimas@uh.edu Research Interests American politics Electroral behavior Political psychology Quantitative methods Download CV | Website Biographical Summary Education Ph.D., University of California, Davis B.S., Santa Clara University (suma cum laude; Phi Beta Kappa) Selected Publications “Linking Party Platforms to Perceptions of Presidential Candidates’ Policy Positions, 1972-1996.” In Press. Political Research Quarterly (with Kevin Evans) “When Candidates Value Good Job Performance: A Spatial Model with Applications to Congressional Elections.” 2011. Journal of Politics, 73: 17-30. (with James Adams, Samuel Merrill, and Walter Stone) “Risk Orientation and Policy Frames.” 2010. Journal of Politics, 72: 381-396. (with Cindy Kam) “Candidate Valence and Ideological Placement in U.S. House Elections.” 2010. American Journal of Political Science, 54: 371-388. (with Walter Stone) University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies