Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Department of Biostatistics Home About Academics Research People News Site Navigation Home Statistics Seminars Series Seminar Archive About Job Postings Our Partners Academics Doctoral Program Ph.D. FAQs Master's Program Sc.M. Degree 5th Year (A.M.)/OGE NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Welcome from the chair Master's FAQs Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Introductory Biostatistics Courses Research People Administration Faculty Students Current Doctoral Students Current Master’s Students Alumni News News Item Submission Biostatistics Welcomes Newest Faculty – Alice J. Paul, PhD Sep 2, 2020 The Department of Biostatistics is pleased to welcome our newest faculty member, Alice J. Paul, PhD. Paul was appointed as Assistant Professor of Biostatistics in the Teaching Track, effective 1 August 2020. Paul received her PhD in Operations Research and Information Engineering from Cornell University in 2017, at which time she joined the Department as a Postdoctoral Research Associate. In 2019, Paul accepted the position of Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science at Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering. We were very excited when she applied for and accepted our offer to return to Brown’s School of Public Health as Assistant Professor of Biostatistics! During Paul’s initial time with the Department, she twice taught Statistical Learning (DATA 2020) for the graduate students in Brown’s Data Science Master’s Graduate Program. Paul is recognized for her proven track record in teaching excellence and mentoring of students as well as her expertise in data science, algorithm design and optimization. We are very excited by Paul’s return and look forward to her contributions to the Department, the School and, most importantly, the positive impact she will have on the students of our graduate programs. This Fall, Paul will be instructing PHP2560, Statistical Programming in R as well as providing an assist with PHP2550, Practical Data Analysis. Paul’s research focuses on the design and analysis of algorithms, including algorithms underlying bike-share systems, machine learning and other applications. Her research interests and expertise also include optimization and data science. Please feel free to welcome Professor Paul as the newest member of our impressive faculty! Department of Biostatistics Department of Biostatistics Brown University Box G-S121-7 121 S Main St, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9831 Fax: 401-863-9182 Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top