Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts UC takes center stage in Amazon Prime series Meet the students and alumni behind UC’s episode of ‘The College Tour’ By Jac Kern Email JacEmail Jac 5135561823 January 19, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like The University of Cincinnati is ready for its close-up. Amazon Prime series “The College Tour,” which highlights colleges and universities around the country, features UC in its upcoming season. UC’s episode premieres Feb. 8. How to watch Watch the full episode and learn more at uc.edu/college-tour. In each episode of “The College Tour,” high school students and other viewers can virtually travel across America for an inside look at colleges and universities. Hosted by “Amazing Race” winner Alex Boylan, each episode of “The College Tour” highlights an institution through the eyes of its students, faculty and alumni, providing prospective students with an authentic look at life on campus. Filmed in July 2021, UC’s episode is a crash-course in being a Bearcat, starring a few of the university’s best and brightest students and alumni. Some are lifelong Cincinnatians, others are from across the globe. But they’re all excited to show viewers why they've called UC home: From its beautiful spaces and state-of-the-art facilities to co-op and campus life. Meet the UC stars April Gable Miles Spearman Camryn Morrow Bryce Gray A’Jiana Birchmore Grace Hertlein Alejandro Diaz Carlo Bronzie Jasmine Shaban Anndréa Moore Full Gallery April Gable '23 Full Gallery Major: Communications and Interdisciplinary Studies Hometown: Mentor-on-the-Lake, Ohio As undergraduate student body president and a featured twirler in Bearcats Bands, April Gable has experienced the spirit, rUCKus and excitement that UC’s campus has to offer. She calls the opportunity to appear on “The College Tour” an incredible experience. “I honestly felt like a UC celebrity getting to work with such a talented crew and friendly student extras,” she says. In April’s segment, she brings viewers to historic Nippert Stadium, the setting for one of her favorite UC memories: The Bearcats’ 2021 AAC Championship football game. “After the sold-out crowd of alumni, students, staff and so many others stormed the field, I stood in the stands with the UC Bearcat Bands smiling ear to ear as we played the alma mater and fight songs,” April recalls. "I have never felt such humbling and overwhelming excitement in my life — I was frozen in time watching a scene from a movie. I couldn't help but feel overcome with emotion and pure pride that I attend the greatest university there ever is or was.” Read a Q&A with April Gable. Miles Spearman, ’23 Full Gallery Major: Music and Marketing; Media Production minor Hometown: Born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, raised in Youngstown, Ohio As a high school senior, trumpet player Miles Spearman was accepted to 14 different universities around the nation. What made him choose UC? “I knew I wanted the whole college experience,” Miles says, “meaning a university that would encourage professional and creative growth, while also allowing me to combine my passions — business and music.” At UC, Miles says he’s gained the skills to become a competitive candidate for opportunities around the world. He’s interned with the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, interviewing Grammy award-winning conductors and artists and helping produce free digital concerts. Nationally, he’s worked with JPMorgan Chase & Co. as an Advancing Black Pathways Fellow, where he was introduced to the fast-paced environment of a corporate business. Now, he’s working with the global distribution department at NBC Universal as an international marketing and publicity intern, promoting their world-renowned television shows and blockbuster films across the globe. Miles was happy to share his story in “The College Tour.” “They started by asking us what we thought was most important to share about the University of Cincinnati,” he says. “They leaned into telling an authentic story from the UC student’s perspective.” Read a Q&A with Miles Spearman. Full Gallery Camryn Morrow, ’22 Full Gallery Major: Human Development and Community Engagement Hometown: Cincinnati, Ohio Darwin T. Turner Scholar Camryn Morrow found her community at UC in the identity-based centers, offices and student organizations around campus. “The pride I feel when I walk into these places and can say, ‘This is my home,’ is indescribable.” Camryn highlights some of these places in her segment, including UC’s African American Cultural & Resource Center and Office of Ethnic Programs and Services, which she says have been “vital spaces” for herself and other students. She even got to bring some of her friends along for the ride. “I was so excited to be a part of ‘The College Tour’ and have the opportunity to showcase some of the aspects of UC that mean the most to me,” she says. “I have witnessed the power of belonging and have thrived in UC environments that promote diversity, inclusion and empowerment.” Read a Q&A with Camryn Morrow. Bryce Gray, ’21 Major: Organizational Leadership Hometown: Greenfield, Indiana When Bryce Gray began looking at colleges in high school, he knew he wanted to leave his small hometown for life in the city. “I wanted an adventure,” he says. “This was my opportunity to branch out.” The freshly minted alumnus served as both a campus ROAR Tour Guide and an orientation leader during his time at UC. “I remember the college search being an exciting time for me and I wanted to help new students picture themselves at UC and decide if it would be a good fit for them,” he says. In his segment, Bryce also shares about the volunteer work opportunities he had as a student. Bryce is now pursuing a career in higher education, he says, “so I can keep impacting the next generation of college students who will no doubt push us all forward!” Full Gallery A'Jiana Birchmore, ’21 Full Gallery Major: Criminal Justice and Political Science Hometown: Cincinnati, Ohio Recent graduate A’Jiana Birchmore knows UC student life. She’s been active in the African American Cultural & Resource Center and United Black Student Association and served as a mentor and and a campus tour or "ROAR" Tour Guide. “More than anything, campus spirit and UC’s sense of community have made me a die-hard Bearcat,” A’Jiana says. For her segment in “The College Tour,” A’Jiana takes viewers around UC’s Uptown and East campuses, highlighting spaces like Sigma Sigma Commons and the 1819 Innovation Hub. “I chose UC because it’s a global leader in experience-based learning, offers a top tier education and numerous opportunities post-graduation; and it has provided me with a true home away from home,” she says. “UC ensures that everyone has space to be unapologetically themselves.” Grace Hertlein, ’20 Full Gallery Major: Graphic Communication Design and Spanish Hometown: Cincinnati, Ohio Grace Hertlein is Cincinnati through and through: It’s not only where she was born and raised, but where she went to college and started her career. “My enthusiasm for UC has only grown since I graduated in 2020, so I was thrilled to be able to share that with the film crew and eventually with everyone who watches the show,” Grace says. Grace works at Cincinnati-based consumer goods giant Procter & Gamble as a design manager for fabric softener Downy, alongside some UC alumni, and is even engaged to a fellow Bearcat. So it’s fitting that she spotlights the Queen City in her “College Tour” segment. “The cast and crew for ‘The College Tour’ worked so hard to bring you stunning views of campus and other beautiful places around Cincinnati,” she says. “It's so worth watching, even if you're already a Bearcat.” Read a Q&A with Grace Hertlein. Full Gallery Alejandro Diaz, ’22 Full Gallery Major: Information Systems and Finance Hometown: Tegucigalpa, Honduras When Alejandro Diaz first learned about UC, it was love at first sight — or love before sight. “I actually confirmed enrollment and signed my apartment lease before I ever stepped foot in Cincinnati!” It was UC’s nationally-ranked programs, such as co-op, that sealed the deal for Alejandro, which is the subject of his “College Tour” segment, “We Rank.” Through co-op, Alejandro has completed two internships working in finance, accounting and investments at local companies. “These experiences have enabled me to apply the concepts learned in class to a real and professional role,” he says. “It was an honor to be part of ‘The College Tour,’ an amazing Amazon Prime TV show. The process was very smooth and professional; I felt like an actor being in front of the cameras.” Carlo Bronzie, ’25 Full Gallery Major: Economics and Finance Hometown: Cincinnati, Ohio UC’s co-op program swayed Carlo Bronzie to stay in his hometown for college; now he’s earning while he’s learning in his own backyard and beyond. “I was initially hesitant to stay in my hometown because I’ve always wanted to experience other places around the country and across the world,” Carlo explains. Then he learned about co-op. “I realized that I could have a number of opportunities to do internships out-of-state because experience-based learning is ingrained in the curriculum here. After learning about UC’s focus on co-op and real-world learning, the decision was pretty obvious.” In his segment of “The College Tour,” Carlo shares some of his favorite places to work and play on campus, from Langsam Library, McMicken Commons and Tangeman University Center to Center Court, On the Green and the Campus Rec Center. Full Gallery Jasmine Shaban, ’23 Full Gallery Major: Industrial Design Hometown: Beirut, Lebanon International student Jasmine Shaban says UC found her when she really needed it. “My home country was met with political and economic unrest that left my educational future and potential in a state of uncertainty,” she says. A graphic design major at the time, Jasmine was searching for a program abroad that would open doors for her in the future, and all signs pointed to UC. Before she knew it, she went from living with her parents to living by herself in a different country — but she was never alone. “At such a volatile time in my life, UC’s international office was very supportive and considerate,” Jasmine says. “They made the process less stressful and truly made me feel welcomed. I honestly don’t know what I would have done if it wasn’t for their kindness that has even remained consistent to this day.” “No matter where you’re from, we’re all united by our love for learning and curiosity. UC has truly helped me foster that and it keeps me wanting more. A college education is more than learning skills for a job, it's learning about yourself and following your intuition, all to make you the best version of yourself possible.” Anndréa Moore, ’10 Full Gallery Major: Marketing and International Business Hometown: Columbus, Ohio Anndréa Moore may have graduated more than 10 years ago, but she’s still an active Bearcat — a fact she happily shares in “The College Tour.” “Attending UC was a life-changing experience,” she says. As a student, Anndréa combined her analytical and creative interests by studying marketing and international business. She had done a co-op with The Nielsen Company doing marketing research and analytics for consumer goods companies, including Procter & Gamble and Purina. She ultimately joined The Nielsen Company full time as her first job after graduating from UC. Now the head of product marketing for Meta, Anndréa says UC truly prepared her for her career. “My professional day-to-day closely resembles one of my favorite classes at UC, the Live Well Collaborative course, which brought together business, engineering and design to build products for the over-50 set,” she says. What's Next? Watch “The College Tour” and learn more at uc.edu/college-tour. Tags Department of Communication Student Experience School of Public and International Affairs Marketing Alumni Association In The News International College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Lindner College of Business Department of Interdisciplinary Studies College-Conservatory of Music College bound Electronic Media Production Experience-based Learning Equity and Inclusion College of Arts and Sciences College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Arts & Culture Finance Economics Diversity Admissions Next Lives Here Information Systems Science & Tech School of Criminal Justice Related Stories Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Ohio recognizes UC's efforts to welcome veterans May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati this week was among the first universities to be recognized by Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine for its efforts to support students with military backgrounds. Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top