Skip to main content COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quicklinks Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu AcademicsAdmissionsStudent LifeAthleticsAboutApply Now Airline Quality Rating The Airline Quality Rating (AQR) is the premier statistical study of major airline performance in the United States, objectively comparing airline quality. 2022 Airline Rankings The Airline Quality Rating (AQR) is the most comprehensive study of performance and quality of the largest airlines in the United States. The rating is a multifactor examination of the airlines based on mishandled baggage, consumer complaints, on-time performance and involuntary denied boardings. The impact of the novel coronavirus on the U.S. domestic air travel system in 2020 was profound and has had continued effects into 2021. Each airline was challenged to handle an uncertain situation and adapt its respective offerings to fast-changing circumstances. Some airlines adapted quicker than others and the AQR numbers give some insight into this adaptive timeline. 1 Southwest Airlines 2 Hawaiian Airlines 3 Delta Airlines 4 Allegiant Airlines 5 Alaska Airlines 6 United Airlines 7 Frontier Airlines 8 JetBlue 9 American Airlines 10 Spirit Airlines The mishandled baggage rate for the industry grew from 3.96 per 1,000 checked bags in 2020 to 4.97 per 1,000 checked bags in 2021. Denied boardings were noticeably worse in 2021 (0.17 per 10,000 passengers) than in 2020 (0.08 per 10,000 passengers). The industry rate for customer complaints per 100,000 passengers decreased from 11.75 in 2020 to 3.44 in 2021. Only two airlines improved on-time arrival performance in 2021. On-time performance for the industry in 2021 was 79.1% compared to 83.6% in 2020. Compare with results from previous years Download Full Report Get the full 2022 AQR Report PDF with detailed airline and industry analysis and conclusions. Previous Reports AQR Reports for all previous years — dating back to 1991 — are available for download. Airline News As passengers return, airline performance dips in Airline Quality Ratings Wichita State University More Airline News About the Research The Airline Quality Rating (AQR) was developed and first announced in early 1991 as an objective method for assessing airline quality on combined multiple performance criteria. This current report, the Airline Quality Rating 2022, reflects monthly Airline Quality Rating scores for calendar year 2020. AQR scores for 2022 are based on 15 elements in four major areas that focus on airline performance aspects important to air travel consumers over the calendar year of 2021. The Airline Quality Rating 2022 is a summary of month-by-month quality ratings for U.S. airlines that are required to report performance by virtue of having at least 0.05% of domestic scheduled-service passenger revenue during 2021. Using the Airline Quality Rating system of weighted averages and monthly performance data in the areas of on-time arrivals, involuntary denied boardings, mishandled baggage, and a combination of 12 customer complaint categories, the AQR reports airlines’ comparative performance for the calendar year of 2021. This research monograph contains a summary of the AQR methodology and detailed data that track comparative performance quality for domestic airline operations for the 12-month period of 2021 and the industry. Also, comparative Airline Quality Rating data for 2020 are included, where available, to provide historical perspective regarding performance quality in the industry. The Researchers Dr. Dean E. Headley, Lead Researcher Wichita State University Dr. Dean E. Headley is Emeritus Professor of Marketing in the Department of Marketing at the W. Frank Barton School of Business of Wichita State University. He holds a Doctorate in Marketing and Statistics from Oklahoma State University, a Master of Business Administration degree from Wichita State University, and a Master of Public Health Degree from the University of Oklahoma. Dr. Headley’s research interests include methodology development for measurement of service quality, the connection between service quality and consumer behavior, consumer choice processes in service settings, and the effects of marketing activities on consumers and providers of services. Wichita State University W. Frank Barton School of Business 304 Clinton Hall Wichita, KS 67260-0084 Office: (316) 978-3367 dean.headley@wichita.edu Dr. Brent D. Bowen Dr. Brent D. Bowen is a former professor of Aeronautical Science and former dean of the College of Aviation at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott, Arizona. Previously, Dr. Bowen chaired the Department of Aviation Technology at Purdue University. Dr. Bowen attained his Doctorate in Aviation Sciences from Oklahoma State University and a Master of Business Administration degree from Oklahoma City University. His Federal Aviation Administration certifications include Airline Transport Pilot (Type-rated Douglas DC-3 SIC), Certified Flight Instructor (SEL, MEL, Instrument) with Gold Seal, Advanced-Instrument Ground Instructor, Aviation Safety Counselor, and Aerospace Education Counselor. 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 987-3456 Request Info Visit Apply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions facebook twitter instagram youtube Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself. Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & Friends Give to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Policy Campus Safety Accessibility WSU Public Information site Website Support Settlement Info KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment.