Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Helen Hardin Honors College Join Honors Current Members Get Involved Opportunities Faculty News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Opportunities Undergraduate Research Summer Fellowship Washington Center Internships Scholarships Phi Kappa Phi Study Abroad Take Action Apply Online Opportunities National Student Exchange Contact Us Follow Honors Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Helen Hardin Honors College Opportunities Study Abroad Opportunities Study Abroad The Honors College strongly encourages study abroad for our students. The University of Memphis Study Abroad Office offers 160 programs in over 60 countries worldwide including semester, academic year, spring break and summer programs. Fore information, please contact the Study Abroad Office for more information at tigersabroad@memphis.edu or visit the UofM Study Abroad Webpage > Honors Study Abroad Tour Every year the Honors College organizes an Honors Study Tour. The Study Tour is led by UofM faculty and is part of a course that is offered during the Spring semester the travel component during Spring Break. Recent countries visited include Japan, England, South Africa, Brazil, and Costa Rica. Classics in Italy - Summer 2022 The ancient Greeks and Romans used storytelling to organize their thoughts, express their values, and understand their place on earth and in the universe. This program allows you to gain direct experience in places of an ancient culture that is the cradle of the Western civilization. Tour museums and archaeological sites throughout Perugia, Assisi, and Rome! Faculty Leader: Rita Pasqui, Instructor of Classics Faculty Email: rpasqui@memphis.edu Course: Participants will choose either CLAS 2481 - Classic Mythology or CLAS 4791 - Studies in Classics Dates: May 19 - June 25, 2022 Location: Perugia, Italy Application Deadline: March 1, 2022 More Information and Application > Funding In many cases, financial aid (student loans, Pell Grant, academic scholarships, etc.) can be used toward covering the cost of study abroad. Scholarships are available from the University of Memphis (UofM) Study Abroad Office to support international study. In addition to the UofM Study Abroad Scholarship, there are various institutional and external scholarships students may be eligible to apply for. Explore Scholarships for Study Abroad > UofM Study Abroad Scholarship The Study Abroad Scholarship is available for full-time undergraduate students at The University of Memphis. Undergraduate students must have have a minimum 2.75 GPA to qualify. Cecil C. Humphreys Merit, Presidential and Herff Scholarship The University of Memphis awards a study abroad stipend to recipients of the Cecil C. Humphreys Merit, Presidential and Herff Scholarship. For more information on how to apply this scholarship to your study abroad trip, please contact the Scholarship Office at scholarships@memphis.edu or 901.678.3213 or stop by their office located on the second floor of Wilder Tower. Dr. Elizabeth K. Perryman Honors Scholarship The Dr. Elizabeth K. Perryman Honors Scholarship supports one of the following activities for students majoring in Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Earth Sciences or Biomedical Engineering: Supplemental funding toward one academic year of study at the University of Memphis. Study abroad for an academic year, semester, or summer (minimum 10 weeks) at an approved international university/institute or an internship at an international company directly related to the applicant’s major. Please note: There is only one award available per academic year. Applicants must meet the following requirements: Full-time Student (minimum 12 hours per semester) Member in "Good Standing" in the Helen Hardin Honors College Sophomore, Junior, or Senior classification Majoring in Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Earth Sciences or Biomedical Engineering Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.25 Must have demonstrated valuable service to the community or university, preferably in gender equality, climate change projects, or biomedical projects Applicants must provide: Two recommendations from faculty of their major department Resume Undergraduate transcript A completed application with detailed essay about needs, qualifications and plans for this special scholarship Term Application Deadline Academic Year 2022-2023 March 15, 2022 Fall 2022 March 15, 2022 Spring 2023 October 15, 2022 Summer 2023 March 15, 2023 Application Opens November 15 Honors Experience Participating in an approved, credit-bearing UofM study abroad program will count as an Honors Experience and as a three hours of honors credits. All honors experiences must be approved, in advance, by the Honors College. For approval, please submit a honors experience form to the Honors College prior to start of the experience. Honors Experience Form - Study Abroad Option Past Honors Study Tours Turkey 2011 Brazil 2012 South Africa 2013 Italy 2014 Japan 2015 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.