Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Contraception Fertility Awareness Method What is the Fertility Awareness Method (FAM)? Fertility awareness actually involves a combination of methods that aim to predict when ovulation will occur. These methods include taking basal body temperatures and observing cervical mucus. By carefully recording these observations, a user of the fertility awareness method can abstain from vaginal intercourse during the time when they ovulate and are most likely to become pregnant. Or, if pregnancy is desired, FAM can also be used to choose a time when intercourse is most likely to result in pregnancy. How does FAM work? Simply counting the number of days to the middle of the menstrual cycle, also called the Rhythm Method, is not an accurate way to prevent pregnancy. Ovulation occurs approximately 14 days before the first day of the next period, and the length of a person's menstrual cycle can change from month to month depending on factors like stress or illness. So counting forward from the last period is not an accurate predictor of ovulation. When talking about fertility, we have to consider both the life of the egg and the life of the sperm. An egg lives in the reproductive tract for about 1 day while sperm can live in the fallopian tubes and uterus for 3 to 5 days. Conception is most likely to occur when intercourse occurs in the 4 to 5 days before ovulation or on the day of ovulation, and this is referred to as the fertile period. In order to become aware of the fertile period, you can observe the cyclic variations in cervical mucus and basal body temperature as well as other cyclic body changes. This involves: Taking your temperature every morning before getting out of bed. Observing the amount and consistency of vaginal mucus every day. Charting the temperature and mucus results so that you can see the changes that occur throughout the menstrual cycle. How effective is FAM in preventing pregnancy and STIs? If used correctly and consistently every cycle, and if you consistently practice abstinence during fertile periods, the rate of pregnancy for someone using the FAM is 1% to 9%. When statistics take into account a user forgetting or misusing the method, the typical rate of pregnancy is approximately 25%. The FAM method does not provide protection against sexually transmitted infections. If you are interested in using this method, we recommend that you discuss it with your medical provider or a natural family planning counselor first to make sure that you fully understand the method and are well prepared to use it. Brown students can make an appointment at Health Services by calling 401.863-3953. What are some advantages of using FAM? It is an opportunity for to better understand your menstrual cycle. There are no medical side effects. It can determine fertile periods if pregnancy is desired. It may be an acceptable contraceptive method if a person's religious beliefs do not approve of other methods. What are some disadvantages of using FAM? A typical college student's schedule decreases the effectiveness of this method. Irregular sleep patterns, stress and illness can make it difficult to use this method accurately and consistently. It provides no protection against STIs. People who have irregular menstrual cycles will find this method difficult to use. It takes a few cycles to learn to use it confidently. It requires consistent motivation and commitment combined with a good understanding of the method. Another method of contraception must be used or abstinence must be practiced during the fertile period Related Links For more information about the FAM and to learn ways to chart your fertility, you can visit: Planned Parenthood Fertility Awareness Network About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook