Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Actuarial Science Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Actuarial Science Major Apply Visit Request More Info Actuarial Science Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Business Administration in Actuarial Science Develop a deep understanding of financial risk management with the Bachelor of Business Administration in Actuarial Science in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. Through the 124-credit curriculum, you’ll refine your analytical and mathematical skills to prepare for the required professional exams and a career as an actuary, specializing in the evaluation of insurance and financial risks across an array of industries. Housed in Fox’s Department of Risk, Insurance and Healthcare Management, the Actuarial Science Major is designated as a Center of Actuarial Excellence by the Society of Actuaries. This intensive program provides highly skilled students with a strong foundation in mathematics and statistics, and exposes them to a wide range of business disciplines. Classes & Curriculum The 124-credit Actuarial Science BBA program is a combination of general education, actuarial science, mathematics and statistics courses. The courses are approved by the Society of Actuaries and Casualty Actuarial Society as satisfying VEE (Validation by Educational Experience) requirements. Courses students will complete include Actuarial Analytics, Actuarial Modeling, Actuarial Probability and Statistics, Calculus, Corporate Finance for Actuarial Science, Managing International Risk and Theory of Interest. Learn more about the required courses for the Actuarial Science Major program. Examinations To become an actuary, you’ll be required to pass a series of professional exams, administered by the Society of Actuaries and Casualty Actuarial Society, that test students in a variety of mathematical and business analytic applications. Coursework in Temple's Actuarial Science Major program is specifically tailored to help prepare students for these exams. Research Temple offers students the opportunity to work closely with faculty in state-of-the-art research facilities to tackle some of the industry’s biggest challenges. As an Actuarial Science student, you’ll work with and learn from thought leaders, and you’ll contribute to the advancement of the field in several areas including the following. Crisis risk management and public reaction to crises Corporate governance in the insurance industry Enterprise risk management Financing of catastrophic risk Learn more about research initiatives in Fox’s Department of Risk, Insurance and Healthcare Management. Related Graduate Degrees Accountancy MAcc Actuarial Science MS Financial Analysis MS Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Statistics MS Statistics PhD Statistics and Data Science MS Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contact For more information about your degree program, contact the following. Krupa Viswanathan is the academic director of the actuarial science program and an associate professor. Phone: 215-204-6183 Email: krupa@temple.edu Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Jim Dietz is the coordinator of enrollment management and the contact for all incoming freshmen. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: jim.dietz@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to Actuarial Science students in the Fox School of Business. The goal of Gamma Iota Sigma is to create a sense of community among majors and help members build toward successful professional careers in risk management, insurance and actuarial science. Members benefit from resume help, guest speaker presentations, trips and mock interviews. Explore the full list of Fox School of Business student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-AS-BBA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Actuarial Science Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info