Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Home > Home > Academic support > Finding help Finding help College is a time for you to explore who you are as an individual and as a member of a community. It can also be a stressful time. There are many resources on this campus to support students. If you need help, talk to your adviser and they will refer you to resources that can support you. ALERTI'm on warning or probation Students are placed on academic probation at the end of any quarter—except for the first quarter at the University, when an academic warning is issued instead—in which their cumulative GPA is below 2.0. Students should schedule an appointment to see an academic adviser as soon as possible to discuss their academic standing. International students should also contact their ISS adviser to understand how their academic standing could affect their visa status. Students must complete the Academic Self-Assessment BEFORE their scheduled advising appointment. ALERTI've been dropped for low scholarship and I want to petition for reinstatement The first step is to contact one of the following reinstatement advisers. If you have not yet declared a major or have a major in a program located in the College of Arts & Sciences: Contact an adviser in UAA Advising. If you have not yet declared a major and are affiliated with EOP, SSS, or CAMP: Contact the Office of Minority Affairs and Diversity Counseling Services. If you have a major outside the College of Arts & Sciences: Contact your departmental adviser to find out the process for your college or school. It is in your best interest to begin working with an adviser as soon as possible, as there may be multiple steps that must be completed before your petition is given to the Reinstatement Committee for consideration. I'm considering dropping a course Week 1 (day 1-7) of the quarter During this time, there are no penalties or fees for making changes. Also, the changes do not appear on your transcript. Week 2 (day 8-14): Unrestricted Drop Period Courses dropped during this week do not appear on your transcript, but are subject to the $20 change-of-registration fee and possible tuition forfeiture. Week 2 and 3 (day 8-21) of the quarter: Late Add Period All courses added during this time require an entry code. Faculty are usually reluctant to allow a student to add a course after the first week of the quarter. A $20 fee is charged, covering all registration transactions made on a single day. Week 3 through 7 (day 15-end of week 7) of the quarter: Late Course Drop Period Students may drop one course each academic year (Autumn through Summer quarters) after the 14th calendar day of the quarter. The course is recorded on your transcript, along with a “W” and a number indicating the week you dropped the course. A $20 change-of-registration fee is charged, and there may be some tuition forfeiture Week 8 through 10 of the quarter After week 7 you can’t drop an individual course, but you’re allowed to drop ALL your courses for the quarter through the last day of instruction. I'm considering dropping a course, what are my other options? Before dropping a course you are having trouble in, consider your options. Talk with the instructor and/or TA about the problems you are having. Also consider the following alternatives: Satisfactory/Not Satisfactory (S/NS) grading You can change any course (except a Credit/No Credit course) to S/NS grading through the seventh week of the quarter. S/NS courses can’t be used toward any graduation requirement except general electives, so think carefully! Incomplete If you’re unable to complete the work required for a course before the end of the quarter, you can request an “incomplete” from the instructor. If s/he agrees, you will get extra time to finish the work. Former Quarter Drop (FQD) If it is too late to drop a course (i.e., after the seventh week of the quarter) AND you have experienced a documented hardship (e.g., injury, death in the family), you can petition for a Hardship Withdrawal. The process takes several weeks, and, if approved, will result in “HW” being entered instead of a grade. You may request a Hardship Withdrawal for one or more courses, and can even submit retroactive requests for courses taken in previous quarters. Withdrawal from all courses If none of the above options work in your situation, you can withdraw from ALL your courses right up through the last day of instruction. You won’t receive credit for any courses taken in the quarter, and “W”s will be entered instead of grades. No explanation or documentation is required. If it’s before the end of the seventh week of the quarter, just drop all your courses. After that you have to do it in person at 225 Schmitz Hall. There are two monetary charges: a $20 late change fee and a tuition forfeiture fee if the change is made after the 7th calendar day of the quarter. Please consult with the Student Fiscal Services website for more information. I have a learning disability If you have previously been diagnosed with a learning disability, or feel that you might have a learning disability, Disability Resources for Students (DRS) should be your first stop. DRS is committed to ensuring equal access for enrolled students who have a documented permanent or temporary physical, mental, or sensory disability. DRS can help with notetaking services, more time on tests, textbook audiotaping and more. I'm having trouble outside of class Whatever distress you are experiencing, the UW has resources to help you. Visit the centers listed below for more information and to set up an appointment. The Counseling Center - Available to current UW students. Most services are free. The Mental Health Clinic (MHC) of Hall Health Primary Care Center - Most services can be charged to your health insurance plan. Health & Wellness - A department of Student Life that works with students to support their academic careers by building relationships and plans for success. Crisis Clinic - 24-hour crisis line (non-UW) providing immediate, confidential assistance for people in emotional distress and in need of help. There are many other community resources for counseling and therapy, and you can find out more about them by contacting any of the above offices. You are not alone and help is available. If you are having a significant impact on your studies due to a hardship, see the "I'm considering dropping a course" to learn more about your options. I have a problem with a grade or an instructor In most cases, it is best to approach the professor directly. If you aren't comfortable talking with the instructor, or if you have and there was not an acceptable resolution to the problem, then you should talk with someone else in the department—the undergraduate adviser or the department chair. If you still aren't satisfied, you may want to contact the University Ombud. I want to contest a grade Discuss the matter with the instructor before the end of the following academic quarter. If you are unsatisfied with the instructor's explanation, the next step is to submit a written appeal to the chair or dean of the department (within ten days after meeting with the instructor). Send a copy of your appeal to the instructor as well. Within ten calendar days, the chair or dean will consult with the instructor. Should the chair or dean believe the instructor's conduct to be arbitrary or capricious and the instructor declines to revise the grade, the chair or dean, with the approval of the voting members of his or her faculty, will appoint an appropriate member, or members, of the faculty of that department to evaluate your performance in the course and assign a grade. I believe I have been discriminated against The University of Washington is committed to promoting respect for the rights and privileges of others, understanding and appreciation of human differences, and the constructive expression of ideas. UW policy prohibits discrimination against members of the University community on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability or status as a disabled veteran or Vietnam era veteran (UW Handbook, Vol. IV). The UW is firmly committed to full and positive compliance with a wide range of state and national regulations as applied by law, and/or university policy. If you believe you have been discriminated against on the basis of any of the factors listed above, you may call these University offices for assistance: Community Standards & Student Conduct University Complaint Investigation and Resolution Office (UCIRO) UW Equal Employment Office UW Ombud The following non-UW agencies are also available: Washington State Human Rights Commission U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission I've had an emergency and I need money to pay for school If you are in need of assistance, please submit an Emergency Aid request form to get connected with resources and support. I need food to get by The Campus Food Pantry allows UW students, staff, and faculty to be supplied with nonperishable groceries and select fresh produce for no cost. Anyone with a Husky ID is eligible to receive support. Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Registration Holds If you are on academic warning or probation, a registration hold will be put on your account. Come talk to an adviser for next steps. Academic Support Get access to tutoring, study skills workshops and more here! Title IX Title IX, Title VII, VAWA, Washington State law, and University of Washington policy collectively prohibit discrimination based on sex, sexual orientation, gender, gender expression, pregnant or parenting status, and LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer) identity. Please see the Title IX website to learn more about how to report or make a formal complaint of sex discrimination, sexual harassment, or other sexual misconduct. University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA