Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Welcome and Overview Meet the Staff Academic Calendar Contact Us Grad Events and Calendar Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion News Student Organizations Costs and Funding Giving Resources Graduate Education A-Z Listing Graduate Programs UM/FIU Exchange Associate Deans of Graduate Education Graduate Faculty Graduate Council Graduate Program Review Graduate Program Directors International Credentials & Applicants UOnline Graduate Programs Apply Admissions Representatives On-Campus Graduate Programs UOnline Graduate Programs Policies and Forms Academic Bulletin Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Handbook for Online Students Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook Forming the Thesis/Doctoral Committee Clearance Process for Graduation Forms Graduate Student Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policies Guidance for Pregnant Students Academic Integrity Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) ETD Process Defense and Submission Deadlines Formatting the ETD Defense Day Essentials Post-Defense Essentials Copyright and Publishing Information About Graduate Education Apply Policies and Forms Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) Search ETD Process Defense and Submission Deadlines Formatting the ETD Defense Day Essentials Post-Defense Essentials Copyright and Publishing Information About Welcome and Overview Meet the Staff Academic Calendar Contact Us Grad Events and Calendar Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion News Student Organizations Costs and Funding Giving Resources Graduate Education A-Z Listing Graduate Programs UM/FIU Exchange Associate Deans of Graduate Education Graduate Faculty Graduate Council Graduate Program Review Graduate Program Directors International Credentials & Applicants UOnline Graduate Programs Apply Admissions Representatives On-Campus Graduate Programs UOnline Graduate Programs Policies and Forms Academic Bulletin Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Handbook for Online Students Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook Forming the Thesis/Doctoral Committee Clearance Process for Graduation Forms Graduate Student Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policies Guidance for Pregnant Students Academic Integrity Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) ETD Process Defense and Submission Deadlines Formatting the ETD Defense Day Essentials Post-Defense Essentials Copyright and Publishing Information ETD Process Defense and Submission Deadlines Formatting the ETD Defense Day Essentials Post-Defense Essentials Copyright and Publishing Information About Graduate Education Apply Policies & Forms Electronic Thesis & Dissertation (ETD) Home Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) Formatting the ETD AAA Formatting the ETD ETD Process Defense and Submission Deadlines Formatting the ETD Defense Day Essentials Post-Defense Essentials Copyright and Publishing Information GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Stylistic consistency and precision of presentation are essential features of a scholarly work. If the confidence of the reader is lost due to inaccuracies in the author’s presentation, the entirety of the author’s work is devalued. Your scholarship will have the greatest impact on readers when it is consistently formatted from beginning to end. FORMATTING GUIDELINES Your thesis or dissertation committee will help you decide which style guide to use in your document, e.g., APA, MLA, Turabian, Chicago Manual of Style, etc., but there are some formatting items that the Graduate School requires in the document that may differ from that selected style guide. The PDF, "Organization, Formatting, and PDF Conversion Guidelines for Theses, Dissertations, and Doctoral/Lecture Essays," is a collection of formatting items that the Graduate School requires students make in the final document that may be different from the main style guide you've used in the document. This PDF should be downloaded and printed out for reference before you begin writing. MICROSOFT WORD FRONT-MATTER TEMPLATES BY DEGREE The way the main body of the thesis or dissertation is formatted is up to you and your committee with the goal of applying consistent formatting conventions throughout the entire document. However, the unnumbered front matter of all UM theses and dissertations must be uniform in appearance. To help you format the front matter, the Graduate School has prepared Word templates by degree for you to use in your document. Please download the appropriate Word file and use it to format the unnumbered front-matter pages of your thesis or dissertation: Master's Unnumbered Front Matter Templates M.A. (Master of Arts) M.S. (Master of Science) M.M. (Master of Music) M.S.Ed. (Master of Science in Education) M.S.P.H. (Master of Science in Public Health) M.S.A.E. (Master of Science in Architectural Engineering) M.S.B.E. (Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering) M.S.C.E. (Master of Science in Civil Engineering) M.S.E.C.E. (Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering) M.S.I.E. (Master of Science in Industrial Engineering) M.S.M.E. (Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering) M.S.O.E. (Master of Science in Ocean Engineering) Doctoral Unnumbered Front Matter Templates D.M.A. (Doctoral Essay) D.M.A. (Lecture Recital) Ed.D. Ph.D. SAMPLE TEMPLATES Table of Contents Table of Contents with subchapters Page number placement on page with landscape figure or table VITA page (optional) HELP WITH MICROSOFT WORD The ETD Formatting Support Website provides tips about formatting required page number styles in the document. Page numbers within your documents The following video demonstrates how to set up your page numbers according to ETD guidelines in Microsoft Word. LaTeX TEMPLATE The University is unable to offer support for students who use LaTeX to prepare the final ETD document. However, over the years, graduate students have taken the initiative to prepare a LaTeX template suitable for producing a final ETD document and have shared the template with the Dissertation Editor. Those interested in obtaining the template should send an e-mail to grad.dissertation@miami.edu. The latest template was prepared in November 2019. Please note that the Dissertation Editor can only provide the LaTeX template and is unable to provide assistance with using the LaTeX template. VISIT THE SCHOLARSHIP@MIAMI INSTITUTIONAL REPOSITORY When preparing your ETD, it can be helpful to go to the Scholarship@Miami institutional repository to see what a final, accepted thesis or dissertation looks like and how information about you and your work will appear online. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Graduate School 235 Ashe Administration Building 1252 Memorial Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284-4154 (305) 284-4154 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices