Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Social Justice and Human Rights In the fight against persistent injustice and inequity at home and abroad, lawyers serving the public interest can be powerful advocates for equal economic opportunity, criminal justice reform, racial justice, gender equality, immigrants’ rights, and fair housing. How can lawyers and the law create a more just society and advance the basic rights of individuals around the world? Columbia Law School expertly trains and nurtures lawyers who use their skills to create positive change. Since the early days of the U.S. civil rights movement, Columbia Law faculty and alumni have had pivotal roles in social justice and human rights organizations such as the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the United Nations, and Amnesty International. More recently, they have served as driving forces behind concepts such as intersectionality and critical race theory. The Law School continues to equip lawyers to use their skills for creating positive change in all aspects of society. Why Columbia? Faculty who are deeply involved in promoting justice and equality in the United States and around the world. A robust social justice and human rights curriculum that includes foundational teaching in civil and human rights and lawyering for change. Summer funding—among the most generous at U.S. law schools—for students to gain public interest experience before embarking on their job search. Numerous post-graduate fellowships that provide Columbia Law alumni with financial support for public interest work and the Loan Repayment Assistance Program. Advanced seminars that cover topics including capital punishment, critical debates within the field of intersectionality studies, and human rights reparations under domestic and international law. The Public Interest/Public Service Fellows program, which offers students a supportive community, connections with mentors, professional development and reflective learning opportunities, and specialized career and curricular counseling throughout their three years at the Law School. Human Rights Fellowships for LL.M. students, which provide financial support and tailored skills and career development. Clinics in which students successfully advocate for change in human rights, immigrants’ rights, juvenile justice, and mass incarceration. Externships with legal aid organizations to explore how the law can remedy systemic problems in health justice, housing, immigration, and incarceration through impact litigation, representation, and grassroots advocacy. “Clinics are aimed at providing pro bono representation, but we do it with a very low caseload so that we can spend a lot of time teaching the students to practice law. We teach what we call client-centered lawyering, and we believe that students learn as much about the social challenges underlying the legal issues from the clients as they do from the faculty.” —Brett Dignam, Clinical Professor Emerita of Law Related Links Explore Courses Public Interest and Public Service at Columbia Office of Social Justice Initiatives Human Rights Institute Resources for Students Related Faculty All Faculty Kate Andrias Professor of Law Amber Baylor Associate Clinical Professor of Law Sarah Cleveland Louis Henkin Professor of Human and Constitutional Rights Kimberle W. Crenshaw Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Jeffrey A. Fagan Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Katherine M. Franke James L. Dohr Professor of Law Kellen R. Funk Associate Professor of Law Philip M. Genty Everett B. Birch Innovative Teaching Clinical Professor in Professional Responsibility and Vice Dean for Experiential Education Maeve Glass Associate Professor of Law Suzanne Goldberg Herbert and Doris Wechsler Clinical Professor of Law Bernard E. Harcourt Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law and Professor of Political Science Conrad Johnson Clinical Professor of Law Olatunde C. Johnson Jerome B. Sherman Professor of Law Sarah M. Knuckey Lieff Cabraser Clinical Professor of Law James S. Liebman Simon H. Rifkind Professor of Law Elora Mukherjee Jerome L. Greene Clinical Professor of Law Kerrel Murray Associate Professor of Law Lynnise E. Pantin Pritzker Pucker Family Clinical Professor of Transactional Law Carol Sanger Barbara Aronstein Black Professor of Law Colleen F. Shanahan Clinical Professor of Law Jane M. Spinak Edward Ross Aranow Clinical Professor of Law Susan P. Sturm George M. Jaffin Professor of Law and Social Responsibility Kendall Thomas Nash Professor of Law Brett Dignam Clinical Professor Emerita of Law Harold S. Edgar Julius Silver Professor Emeritus of Law, Science and Technology Mary M. Zulack Clinical Professor Emerita of Law All Faculty Listing Related Centers and Programs All Centers and Programs Center for Constitutional Governance The Center for Constitutional Governance (CCG) is a nonpartisan legal and policy organization devoted to the study of constitutional structure and authority. CCG invites academics, students, government officials, practitioners, and community members to engage with major constitutional and governance issues of the day, from health care to civil rights, immigration, financial regulation, and national security. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Center for Institutional and Social Change The Center for Institutional and Social Change facilitates collaboration between scholars, practitioners, and students striving to address structural inequality through institutional transformation. Participants use brainstorming, strategic analysis, and empirical and field research to develop new frameworks, strategies, and roles for effective institutional and social change. Areas of Study Leadership Litigation and Dispute Resolution Social Justice and Human Rights Human Rights Institute The Human Rights Institute draws on the Law School’s deep human rights tradition to support and influence human rights practice in the United States and around the world. The institute builds bridges between scholarship and practice in four key areas—counterterrorism and armed conflict, human rights in the U.S., the Inter-American Human Rights System, and the global economy—employing tools such as field work, advocacy, fact-finding reports, and symposia. Areas of Study Social Justice and Human Rights Center for Public Research and Leadership The Center for Public Research and Leadership (CPRL) aims to revitalize public education while filling substantial gaps in professional education. CPRL’s rigorous coursework, skills training, and research and consulting projects prepare graduate students in law, business, and public policy for careers in the education sector. With an eye toward improving outcomes for all children, CPRL utilizes the latest techniques in education, such as organizational design, democratic accountability, team-based problem-solving skills, and socio-emotional learning. Students can also participate in a semster-long intensive around transformational change in public education by enrolling in the Public Education Policy Lab-Seminar and Skills courses. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Leadership Social Justice and Human Rights All Centers and Programs Experiential Learning Opportunities All Experiential Learning Clinic Community Advocacy Lab Clinic Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Criminal Justice Social Justice and Human Rights Clinic Immigrants’ Rights Clinic Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Clinic Smith Family Human Rights Clinic Areas of Study Law of the Workplace Social Justice and Human Rights Externship Family and Immigration Defense Externships Areas of Study Family, Gender, and Sexuality All Experiential Learning at Columbia Law Public Interest/Public Service No matter what your area of interest, find ways to incorporate public interest and public service into your academic program and career. Academics Careers Related Student Groups and Journals American Civil Liberties Union Columbia Law First Generation Professionals Domestic Violence Project If/When/How - Lawyering for Reproductive Justice Public Defender Students of Columbia Law School Rightslink Society for Immigrant and Refugee Rights Columbia Human Rights Law Review Related News Read All Stories More in The Press Law School News News Meet the 2021 J.D. and LL.M. Postgraduate Public Interest Fellows Every year, recent Columbia Law School graduates receive prestigious fellowships that support positions in public interest and public service organizations. In The Press Unpacking America’s History with ‘Replacement Theory’ is Complicated Kendall Thomas | NPR Alumni News Bobbie J. Wilson ’90: Pursuing Passions With Practicality in Mind In The Press How to Help Ukrainian Refugees Michael W. Doyle | Newsweek Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.