Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Student Involvement Menu Main Nav Office of Student Involvement MyBC Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Contact Programs & Services Overview Senior Week Student Organizations Overview Forms Executive Board Members Event Planning Leadership Development Overview Emerging Leader Program LeaderShape Institute Ever to Excel Awards 2021 Award Recipients Women's Summit Events MyBC Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Emerging Leader Program Home Leadership Development Emerging Leader Program Leadership Development Emerging Leader Program LeaderShape Institute Ever to Excel Awards Women's Summit The Emerging Leader Program: Leaders for Others Since its inception in 1988, the Emerging Leader Program (ELP) has earned the reputation of being a premiere leadership program for first-year students at Boston College. Each year, 50 first-year students are selected to participate in the one-year leadership development program. Guided by the Social Change Model of leadership development, ELP aims to form leaders for others. By participating in ELP, students develop the leadership skills and competencies necessary to facilitate positive change on campus and in their communities. This yearlong leadership development program will equip and empower students to engage in leadership during their time at Boston College and beyond through large and small group activities and discussions, events, experiential outings, service, and mentorship. Application Deadline: Friday, July 15th, 2022 at 11:59 PM. Apply Now Program Highlights Upperclassmen Mentors ELP Retreat ELP Small Groups Weekly ELP Meetings Signature ELP Events Service Partnership Program Requirements Move onto campus early and attend the ELP Welcome on Tuesday, August 24th, 2022* This move-in date is very tentative and subject to University approval. Participate in the ELP Retreat from Wednesday, August 25th - Thursday, August 26th, 2023* This retreat date is very tentative and subject to University approval. Participate in weekly ELP meetings during both Fall 2022 and Spring 2023 semesters on Tuesdays from 6:00 PM - 8:00 PM Participate in ELP Team-Building Day on Saturday, October 8th, 2022* and the ELP Trip to Downtown Boston on Saturday, April 15th, 2023* Complete the five ELP Core Experiences: Participate in a Student Involvement Fair during either the Fall 2022 or Spring 2023 semesters Participate in a Wellness Coaching Session during either the Fall 2022 or Spring 2023 semesters Participate in a Bowman AHANA & Intercultural Center B.R.A.V.E. Conference during either the Fall 2022 or Spring 2023 semesters Participate in Leadership Day 2023 on Saturday, January 28th, 2023* Participate in one hour of weekly service at the Saint Columbkille Partnership School during both Fall 2022 and Spring 2023 semesters Be enrolled full time (12 credit hours) at Boston College for both Fall 2022 and Spring 2023 semesters Pay a $150 non-refundable program fee** Maintain open communication with peers and program leaders Be open to learning and challenging oneself **All dates are tentative and subject to change and adjustments to the program may be made to be compliant with state, local, and University guidelines related to COVID-19. **Under a number of circumstances, this fee may be waived. Please contact us at elp@bc.edu with questions or concerns. ELP Facilitators Learning Outcomes Kevin M. Eidt Scholarship ELP Facilitators Emerging Leader Program (ELP) Facilitators foster the leadership development of first-year students while also guiding them through their transition into the Boston College community. ELP Facilitators provide a meaningful mentoring relationship while helping new students learn what it means to be a leader for others. The 2020–2021 ELP Facilitators Neal Bold MCAS ‘24, History & International Studies Hometown: Natick, MA Jackie Coquillette MCAS ‘24, International Studies Hometown: Bronxville, NY James Fiechter CSOM '22, Finance & Entrepreneurship Hometown: Queens, NY Amy Guggenberger LSEHD ‘24, Applied Psychology & Human Development Hometown: North Andover, MA Eunice Ham MCAS ‘24, Political Science & History Hometown: Fullerton, CA Gianna Martinez WCAS ‘24, Undeclared Hometown: Lynn, MA Emily Murphy LSEHD ‘24, Applied Psychology & Human Development Hometown: Huntington, NY Matt O'Donnell CSOM ‘24, Finance & Business Analytics Hometown: North Caldwell, NJ Makayla Romanus MCAS ‘24, Neuroscience Hometown: Doyleston, PA Tyler Williams CSOM '22, Finance & Management and Leadership Hometown: Bayville, NY By participating in the Emerging Leader Program (ELP), students will: By participating in the Emerging Leader Program (ELP), students will: Know, value, and apply the eight values of the Social Change Model: Consciousness of Self, Congruence, Commitment, Collaboration, Common Purpose, Controversy with Civility, Citizenship, and Change Develop their self-awareness and awareness of others Build collaborative relationships with others Enhance their appreciation of the experiences, perspectives, and contributions of others Coordinate leadership events for the campus Serve members of their local community Learn how to engage in civil dialogue Understand the importance of ethical decision making Value civic engagement Become empowered to create positive change on campus and in their communities Career readiness competencies developed through this program: Career readiness competencies developed through this program: Leadership Leverage the strengths of others to achieve common goals, and use interpersonal skills to coach and develop others. The individual is able to assess and manage his/her emotions and those of others; use empathetic skills to guide and motivate; and organize, prioritize, and delegate work. Teamwork/Collaboration Build collaborative relationships with colleagues representing diverse cultures, races, ages, genders, religions, lifestyles, and viewpoints. The individual is able to work within a team structure, and can negotiate and manage conflict. Critical Thinking/Problem Solving Exercise sound reasoning to analyze issues, make decisions, and overcome problems. The individual is able to obtain, interpret, and use knowledge, facts, and data in this process, and may demonstrate originality and inventiveness. Professionalism/Work Ethic Demonstrate personal accountability and effective work habits, e.g., punctuality, working productively with others, and time workload management, and understand the impact of non-verbal communication on professional work image. The individual demonstrates integrity and ethical behavior, acts responsibly with the interests of the larger community in mind, and is able to learn from his/her mistakes. Participants must be able to fulfill the following requirements: Participants must be able to fulfill the following requirements: Attend the ELP Retreat Attend weekly ELP Meetings during both Fall 2022 and Spring 2023 semesters (Tuesdays from 6:00-8:00pm) Participate in service at the Saint Columbkille Partnership School in Brighton, MA Attend monthly ELP Outings Be enrolled full time (12 credit hours) at BC for Fall 2022 and Spring 2023 semesters Pay a $150 non-refundable program fee* Maintain open communication with peers and program facilitators Be open to learning and challenging oneself *Under a number of circumstances, this fee may be waived. Please contact us at elp@bc.edu with questions or concerns. The Kevin M. Eidt Memorial Scholarship The Kevin M. Eidt Memorial Scholarship is awarded annually to the freshman in the Emerging Leader Program whose leadership skills and potential are best represented by Boston College’s philosophies of “Ever to Excel” and being “Men and Women for Others.” The scholarship recipient is selected by the director of the Emerging Leader Program and announced each year, at the end-of-the-year ELP banquet. Kevin M. Eidt was a member of the Boston College class of 2000. A freshman in the Emerging Leader Program, Kevin died of cardiac arrest during an intramural basketball game in the second semester of his freshman year. In recognition of the tremendous impact he made on the Boston College community in such a short time, Kevin was posthumously awarded the Nicholas H. Woods Leadership Award, sponsored by the Office of Student Development. In addition, the Liturgical Arts Group dedicated their "I Want to Praise Your Name" CD to Kevin and the men and women's intramural basketball championship trophy is named in his honor. This scholarship was created as a legacy to a young man who, in one semester, made a positive impact on the BC community, lived the motto "Ever to Excel" and approached every day with the exuberance and determination to live life to its fullest. The scholarship is funded by the Kevin Eidt Fund at Boston College, which is supported by alumni contributions and grants from the Kevin M. Eidt Memorial Scholarship Fund; a 501(c)(3) publicly supported charitable organization. Past scholarship recipients 2020 | Audrey Davis | (Fanwood, NJ) 2019 | Henry Bayly | (Fort Myers, FL) 2018 | Fatoumata Sall | (New York, NY) 2018 | Noella D'Souza | (Sharon, MA) Facilitator Award 2017 | Joan Kennedy | (San Antonio, TX) 2016 | Kandace Nguyen | (Morrero, LA) 2015 | Noah Groenewold | (Hinsdale, IL) 2014 | Alec Ellis | (Winter Park, FL) 2013 | Christopher Klotsche | (Milwaukee, WI) Testimonials “Through ELP, I have learned the importance of taking intentional notice of the qualities that make you a unique leader able to collaborate with others though the small group instances and opportunities that may seem mundane or inconsequential. It is in these moments that true leadership is not only nourished and developed, but also internalized by those you touch. By using our strengths to serve and inspire others, we are empowering those around us in the purest way possible.” ELP Participant, 2018-2019 “ELP has opened my eyes to how open minded and thoughtful and honest we can and should be. By having conversations about difficult topics in ELP, I have seen how willing my peers are to discuss these things and fight for change in all aspects of their lives. This is what real leadership is to me, and by seeing my friends be leaders in conventional and unconventional ways, I have been inspired to be a leader in my own way.” ELP Participant, 2018-2019 “At the beginning of last semester, I wasn’t sure what college would be, who I’d be around, or what I’d become. ELP has helped me gain some understanding in all of these areas. ELP has helped me further the belief that college is an opportunity to get involved, impact others, be impacted by others, and be a voice for change when necessary. It gave me 50+ people to start this journey with, an amazing small group with amazing facilitators who both model different traits I’d like to attain and help to forge the person I’d like to become. ” ELP Participant, 2018-2019 “As an ELP member, I have experienced firsthand how the values of the Social Change Model help develop a sense of social responsibility, help in learning to appreciate diversity, and create a positive impact on one’s perception toward life.” ELP Participant, 2018-2019 “As an ELP member, I have experienced firsthand how the values of Social Change Model help develop a sense of social responsibility, learn to appreciate diversity, and create a positive impact on one’s perception toward life.” ELP Participant, 2018-2019 “I’ve come to realize with the help of my small group and the larger ELP community that this program is a place where exceptional students come together and share personal perspectives, opinions, and stories.” ELP Participant, 2018-2019 Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Involvement Carney Hall, Suite 147 617-552-3480 osi@bc.edu About Programs & Services Student Organizations Leadership Development Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College