Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Health Professions Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Health Professions Major Apply Request More Info Health Professions Major Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Health Professions The Bachelor of Science in Health Professions at Temple’s College of Public Health is designed for students committed to pursuing careers in many of the health professions, including athletic training, occupational therapy, physical therapy and more. Students interested in careers in medicine or dentistry should explore programs in the College of Science and Technology. This innovative degree program offers an interdisciplinary education across departments in the College of Public Health, providing students with better preparation for careers in healthcare and making them more competitive for admission to advanced professional programs in a range of clinical fields. Courses drawn from several disciplines give students comprehensive exposure to the healthcare field and reinforce the team approach widely used in healthcare today. Core courses provide students with the prerequisites they need for acceptance into professional clinical programs, and electives enable students to tailor their degrees in order to best prepare for their careers. Academic advisors and faculty guide students in these choices. Temple’s Health Professions BS gives students additional background in areas such as cultural competency, health behaviors and medical terminology. What sets apart our Bachelor of Science in Health Professions? A unique program: Our Health Professions BS is the only undergraduate program in the region that is specifically designed to prepare students for professional programs in healthcare. An innovative curriculum: You will take core courses from across the College of Public Health—giving you an interdisciplinary education that is invaluable in preparing to work as part of a healthcare team. Opportunities to customize your degree: Students can tailor the program around their career goals and select courses that will make them most competitive when applying to professional programs. Program Format Students complete 120 credits, including 35 credits of core courses in the College of Public Health, 34 credits in math and science courses, and 21 credits of elective courses that prepare you for the professional program to which you plan to apply. See a full list of program courses. Our Academic Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. Our advising staff will work with you to set goals and help you reach your academic potential. Meet our academic advisors. Related Graduate Degrees This degree affords you maximum career choice in healthcare. Graduates are prepared to apply to several professional degree programs. Master of Science in Athletic Training Master of Occupational Therapy Doctor of Physical Therapy Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away Become an informed, active global citizen and enrich your education by studying away. Explore Temple’s study abroad opportunities, including information about specific programs and visas, as well as resources on cultural adaptation, diversity matters, and health and safety. Learn more about studying away. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,184.00 per year Out-of-state: $35,016.00 per year HP-HPRF-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Health Professions Major Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info