Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News How to give a hippo an ultrasound May 26, 2022 University of Cincinnati master's student Julie Barnes works as a veterinarian at the Cincinnati Zoo & Botanical Garden where she recently performed an ultrasound on a hippo. Light pollution can disorient monarch butterflies May 23, 2022 Biologists at the University of Cincinnati say nighttime light pollution can interfere with the remarkable navigational abilities of monarchs, which travel as far as Canada to Mexico and back during their multigenerational migration. UC offers summer course on animal-inspired robotics May 23, 2022 The UC creators of Biology Meets Engineering are wrapping up a three-year National Science Foundation grant to develop and demonstrate a new curriculum drawing from both fields in UC’s College of Arts and Sciences and its College of Engineering and Applied Science. UC students take the class for course credit while faculty will offer a three-week course in June to introduce the concept to high school students. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove How to give a hippo an ultrasound May 26, 2022 University of Cincinnati master's student Julie Barnes works as a veterinarian at the Cincinnati Zoo & Botanical Garden where she recently performed an ultrasound on a hippo. Light pollution can disorient monarch butterflies May 23, 2022 Biologists at the University of Cincinnati say nighttime light pollution can interfere with the remarkable navigational abilities of monarchs, which travel as far as Canada to Mexico and back during their multigenerational migration. UC offers summer course on animal-inspired robotics May 23, 2022 The UC creators of Biology Meets Engineering are wrapping up a three-year National Science Foundation grant to develop and demonstrate a new curriculum drawing from both fields in UC’s College of Arts and Sciences and its College of Engineering and Applied Science. UC students take the class for course credit while faculty will offer a three-week course in June to introduce the concept to high school students. How a compound becomes a drug May 9, 2022 Over decades of ups and downs, the hard work of University of Cincinnati alumnus John Drach paid off when the FDA approved a new drug he helped develop to treat cytomegalovirus. UC graduate develops in-home physical therapy company May 4, 2022 University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup Band Connect is nearing a close on its pre-seed round of funding and will start a military pilot with the Department of Defense, the Cincinnati Business Courier reported. Co-op launched UC alumnus’ Intel career May 3, 2022 Intel vice president James Breisch got his start in computer engineering through UC's top-ranked co-op program. Venture Lab-backed startup aims to clean up plastic pollutants May 2, 2022 A dream of ridding the oceans of plastic pollutants brought Clean Earth Rovers to the University of Cincinnati’s 1819 Innovation Hub, where the startup developed an autonomous rover that soon will take to the water. WVXU: UC startup gains interest in its new technology April 25, 2022 University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup Cinthesis is gaining interest from companies that are adding new products and want to go green, WVXU reported. UC College of Nursing doctoral students to showcase research April 20, 2022 Event: April 25, 2022 12:00 PM UC College of Nursing will host its second Doctoral Student Project Showcase on April 25. UC researchers looking for the Goldilocks of exosuits April 20, 2022 Research team led by Vesna Novak studies improvements needed to make exosuits a viable tool for relieving back strain. UC startup makes advancements in ‘green’ chemistry April 18, 2022 A University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup is developing a new method of chemistry that could make a wide range of products including agrichemicals, pharmaceuticals and plastics more environmentally friendly. How do I sound? Do you like my voice? April 13, 2022 A study led by University of Cincinnati researcher Vesna Dominika Novak, suggests that transgender and gender diverse people may benefit from better-designed smartphone apps that offer voice and communication training software that help lessen voice-gender incongruence for transgender individuals. UC engineer named highly cited researcher for fourth consecutive... April 12, 2022 Dionysios (Dion) Dionysiou, a University of Cincinnati professor in the Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, was named a 2021 Highly Cited Researcher by Clarivate for the fourth consecutive year for his work addressing water pollution, conservation and treatment. His research includes creating sensors to detect cyanotoxins in water sources and how to break down PFAS, the "forever chemical." Using electricity to treat cancer April 12, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Kyle Wang, MD, is the site principal investigator for the Trident trial, studying the effectiveness of earlier electrical treatment through Optune devices to treat glioblastomas. Two grants to investigate sudden unexplained death in epilepsy... April 8, 2022 Researchers in the lab of Steven Crone, PhD, are working to identify when breathing abnormalities happen in epilepsy patients which can lead to death. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top