Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information UW Alumni Tours Home Alumni Travel Travel insurance Travel insurance Close Menu Home Travel COVID-19 Updates Traveler Testimonials Upcoming Tours Tour Operators Traveling with us FAQs & Resources Travel insurance Meet the team & Contact us Travel insurance For info on COVID19’s impact to a USI Travel Insurance travel policy, please visit their Coronavirus Info Center. Traveling to different parts of the world is an incredible experience and booking a travel package is an investment. To protect yourself and your investment, UW Alumni Tours strongly recommends purchasing travel insurance. This important precaution can help protect you and your investment against unforeseen incidents that could impact your trip. For your convenience, we provide information about an optional travel insurance policy available through USI Insurance Services, an insurance provider that works with multiple university travel programs. We invite you to review the terms and coverage of the Travel Insurance Select policy and compare them to other travel insurance policies that you find online or through travel agents. If purchased within 21 days of making your trip deposit, you will be eligible for additional benefits, such as a pre-existing condition waiver, and an optional upgrade to ‘cancel for any reason’. Learn more about Early Booking Benefits. For next steps, please review the policy information available through the links below or call USI Insurance Services 1-800-937-1387. Purchasing this travel insurance package helps support the various programs and services offered through the UW Alumni Association. Travel Insurance Resources Early Booking Benefits Detailed Brochure Covid-19 Info Center Get a Quote Home Travel COVID-19 Updates Traveler Testimonials Upcoming Tours Tour Operators Traveling with us FAQs & Resources Travel insurance Meet the team & Contact us Friends & Family Welcome! You don’t have to be a UW graduate to travel with UW Alumni Tours! UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA