Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies Menu Main Nav Contact Back Back Close About Overview Our People Contact Us Programs Overview International Symposia 2022 - Boston 2021 - Lisbon 2019 - Boston 2018 - Seville 2017 - Boston 2016 - Nairobi 2015 - Boston Certificate in Jesuit Studies Program Details Course Descriptions Immersion Immersion Itinerary Immersion Reflections Social Justice Spiritual Exercises Emerging Leaders Jesuit Pedagogy History of the Jesuits Enrollment Jesuit Studies Café Feore Family Lecture Series on Jesuit Studies 2019 Lecture: Liam M. Brockey 2018 Lecture: Paul F. Grendler 2017 Lecture: John W. O’Malley, S.J. 2016 Lecture: John W. Padberg, S.J. 2015 Inaugural Lecture: John T. McGreevy Ever to Excel Student Application Undergraduate Mentors Become a Mentor Past Mentors 2019 Mentors 2018 Mentors Past Programs FAQ Retreat Workshops Manresa Ignatian Retreat Summer 2022 Program Details Retreat Content FAQ Journey with Ignatius Virtual Pilgrimage The Ignatian Examen App Features FAQ Research & Publications Overview Research Library Jesuit Sources In-Residence Fellows Meet the Fellows Application Affiliated Scholars Digital Projects Overview The Portal to Jesuit Studies Digital Indipetae Database Jesuit Online Bibliography Jesuit Online Library Jesuit Historiography Online Studies in the Spirituality of Jesuits Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Mission The Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies seeks to deepen an understanding and appreciation of the history, spirituality, educational heritage, and pedagogical approach of the Society of Jesus through courses, workshops, publications, and scholarly symposia. The Institute offers collaborative opportunities for scholars from around the world in order to promote a network of scholars engaged in the expanding field of Jesuit Studies. Digital Initiatives Portal to Jesuit Studies Jesuit Online Bibliography Jesuit Online Library Digital Indipetae Database The Portal to Jesuit Studies provides free, online access to a fully searchable collection of primary sources and scholarly publications in the field of Jesuit Studies. Visit the Portal, or learn more about the Institute's other digital initiatives here. The Jesuit Online Bibliography is a free, collaborative, multilingual, and fully searchable database of bibliographic records for scholarship in Jesuit Studies produced in the 21st century. This project is a collaborative effort of archives, scholars, publishers, and research centers. The Jesuit Online Library grants free access to 39 journals, totaling more than 1,000 volumes and 150,000 pages, in English, French, German, Latin, Spanish, and Portuguese. Users may search all this content simultaneously or browse single volumes individually. The Digital Indipetae Database allows for the free exploration of the Jesuit petitions for missions (or the indipetae) from the Old and New Society. The growing collection will allow users to search by a number of facets and to see scans of the original documents. News & Announcements Calendar Events Back To Top Back To Top Contact Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies 140 Commonwealth Avenue Simboli Hall Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-2568 iajs@bc.edu Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College