COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Military & Veteran Services Section Menu Veteran Services Home Military Students Veterans Dependents Additional Information About Our Office Benefit Opportunities First-Time Applicants Transfer Students Enrollment And Benefit Guidelines Certification Process Enrollment Changes Forms Academic Resources Processing/Payment Info Monthly Enrollment Verification Advance Pay Direct Deposit Transfer of Military Credit Deployment Address Change Important Contacts Info for Military/Affiliated Students Military and Veteran Staff Stop Video Transfer of Military CreditLearn more Welcome to the Wichita State University Military & Veteran Services Homepage. If you know what page you need you can select it from the menu below. More helpful links are provided at the bottom of the page. Military Students Veterans Dependents Our Mission: To assist Military members, Veterans, and their dependents in utilizing their Education Benefits.We provide information on education benefit programs, the application process for obtaining education benefits, and the certification process for using these benefits. Our office is responsible for certifying the enrollment and changes in enrollment of eligible students to the VA Regional Office in St. Louis. The VA Education Benefits Office acts as the liason between students and the VA Regional Office. Important Information Regarding Section 702 of the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act for Residency Rate Requirement If you are currently considered a Non-Kansas Resident at WSU but are current Military, Military Spouse/Dependent, or are a Veteran or Spouse/Dependent of a Veteran, please see the WSU Registrar's Office in Jardine Hall Room 102 about the Application for Kansas Resident Classification for Current Military Personnel/Spouse/Dependents and Eligible Veterans/Spouse/Dependents. Service members who plan to use Tuition Assistance are required to speak with their Educational Services Officer (ESO) or Education Counselor according to their Military Service Branch prior to enrolling. Please visit the Certification Page for more information regarding the Education Benefit Certification process at WSU and to print a copy of the form to be completed by both you and your Academic Advisor for enrollment certification. For questions regarding your Education Benefit payments, please contact the GI Bill® Hotline at 1-888-442-4551. WSU does not have access to your payment information. Enrollment Certification Enrollment Certification Page Helpful Links WSU at McConnell ROTC Info Career Services - Job Search Strategies Student Support Resources Veterans Upward Bound Additional Information Contact Us 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©