Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Academics Forward Arrow Academics Visit the College Forward Arrow Visit the College Recruitment Ambassadors Back Arrow Back Office of Career and Global Engagement Greenville Programs Community for Undergraduate Business Students (CUBS) Current Students Forward Arrow Current Students Student Organizations Leadership Opportunities Student Advisory Board Major and Course Fee Back Arrow Back Academic Advising Back Arrow Back Departments Forward Arrow Departments School of Accountancy Department of Economics Department of Financial Management Department of Graphic Communications Department of Management Department of Marketing Clemson MBA Department of Military Leadership Department of Aerospace Studies Research Back Arrow Back Outreach About Forward Arrow About Administration Department Chairs College Directory Forward Arrow College Directory Administration and Support Departments Clemson ROTC Outreach Back Arrow Back College Boards Honors and Awards New Building Forward Arrow New Building About the New Building Building News Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Resources Forward Arrow Resources Alumni Forward Arrow Alumni Exchange Monthly Back Arrow Back Recruiters Faculty and Staff Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Academics show submenu for Academics Visit the College show submenu for Visit the College Recruitment Ambassadors Office of Career and Global Engagement Greenville Programs Community for Undergraduate Business Students (CUBS) Current Students show submenu for Current Students Student Organizations Leadership Opportunities Student Advisory Board Major and Course Fee Academic Advising show submenu for Academic Advising Change of Major Policy Departments show submenu for Departments School of Accountancy Department of Economics Department of Financial Management Department of Graphic Communications Department of Management Department of Marketing Clemson MBA Department of Military Leadership Department of Aerospace Studies Research Outreach About show submenu for About Administration Department Chairs College Directory show submenu for College Directory Administration and Support Departments Clemson ROTC Outreach College Boards Honors and Awards New Building show submenu for New Building About the New Building Building News Resources show submenu for Resources Alumni show submenu for Alumni Exchange Monthly Recruiters Faculty and Staff Clemson Home Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Academics Current Students Current: Major and Course Fee Major and Course Fee Keeping pace with change is critical for success in the 21st century. Business graduates must be prepared with more than just access to the latest technology and course content. They need courses that fully develop their leadership, decision-making and critical-thinking skills. They also need an academic foundation to make effective and ethical decisions in their chosen profession. We want our students to have an unforgettable college experience and graduate to pursue outstanding careers. To accomplish this, we have designed the entire Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business experience to increase our students' success in highly competitive job markets. This goal is partially supported by a major and course fee that funds infrastructure and program enhancements that benefit all business majors, as well as non-majors in upper-level business courses. Clemson is not unique in charging these types of fees, but we want to be transparent about them. Enhancements include additional top-tier faculty to ensure more sections of upper-level business courses and smaller average class sizes. The ability to offer more sections allows us to guarantee that our majors get all the required courses they need for a timely graduation while maintaining the high quality of these courses. Benefit programs offered through our Office of Career and Global Engagement provide leadership and professional development opportunities to give our students a competitive edge. Student Responsibility The Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business is dedicated to seating all juniors and seniors in the classes they need, in proper sequence, to maintain orderly transition to graduation. With this comes a student's responsibility to engage our advising and enrollment system in a timely and effective manner. Students must see their academic advisor(s) each semester prior to the start of registration for the following semester, adhere to the major course map, and register during their assigned registration window. Students must inform their advisor within one week of the close of the semester of any course required for graduation (or a prerequisite to such a course) in which the student earned lower than the required grade (C, D or F, depending on course). Our system requires shared responsibilities with our students. Failure to follow these requirements may jeopardize the course access guarantee. Students Changing to a Business Major If a student changes to a business major on or before the "Last day to register or add a class or declare audit" in any semester, they will receive a bill for the business major fee for that semester. Please see the University Academic Calendar for the specific date each semester. All benefit funding from the major and course fee is utilized within the same academic year; in other words, students benefit directly from the fee they pay. Fee Assessment* Business Junior/Senior Major Fee: $1,059 per semester for in-state juniors and seniors and $1,087 per semester for out-of-state juniors and seniors. Applies to full-time business majors who are considered junior or senior status in terms of credit hours. Business Non-Major Course Fee: $106 per credit hour for in-state students and $108 per credit hour for out-of-state students. Applies to majors who are freshmen or sophomores, non-business majors and part-time majors who are taking 3000- and 4000-level business courses (ACCT, AS, BUS, ECON, ELE, FIN, GC, LAW, MGT, MKT, and ML). Fee Benefits Corporate recruiters are brought to campus to interact with students. Professional development events and activities afford students a competitive edge upon graduation. Select students earn certification in our ILEAD! leadership training program. Students can travel to present their research at national conferences. Students can apply for financial aid to make their study abroad trips possible. More sections of business 3000- and 4000- level classes are available. Average college class sizes across the college are smaller, especially in upper-level business courses. Dedicated advisors guide the progress of juniors and seniors and ensure students stay on track to graduate on time. Students are able to participate in college and department-level national and international competitions, trade conferences, educational trips, research presentations and classes including the Business Management Strategy Challenge and Gateways to World Markets class (trip to NYC), just to name a couple. Fee-Funded Programs Career and Global Engagement - offers mentorship, leadership, internship, study abroad and professional development opportunities for students Student initiatives within academic departments - from sending students to national conferences to bringing corporate recruiters to campus Instructional support - increase the number of top-tier faculty and decrease average class size across the college Fee Funding Process At the beginning of the fall semester, each department fills out a funds proposal form. The Fee Committee, which is composed of faculty and students, determines how funds will be distributed based upon the proposals submitted by the departments. Committee members must agree unanimously with the purpose of the project, the student benefit from the project and the associated project cost. Once determined, the Fee Committee notifies the departments and provides the funding for the approved projects. Contact Us If you have additional questions about the programs and opportunities provided by the fee, please contact: Carl Hollingsworth, Ph.D. Associate Dean, Academic Affairs 864-656-3177 CHOLLIN@clemson.edu *Fee amount is subject to change at the discretion of the Board of Trustees. Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Copyright © Clemson University Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business | 343 Chandler L. Burns Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 864-656-3177 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson