COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Office for Workforce, Professional & Community Education Section Menu WPCE Home WSU Conference Policy 20.08 WSU Planning and Approval Form & Information Badges Community Education Conference Office Commencement Lifelong Learning Metropolitan Complex Staff The Office for Workforce, Professional and Community Education (WPCE) is your link to University workforce training and professional development programs. The WPCE can provide information regarding the many career-relevant academic programs and certifications the University offers. Need a workforce prepared to compete in a global society? The WPCE works with employers to develop customized training tailored to meet your organization's needs in regards to content, schedule and training location. The WPCE also offers numerous conferences and workshops that enhance job skills and meet state and national requirements for professional relicensure. Browse our training calendar and catalog to find a program that fits your professional and personal learning needs. If you do not see a class you are looking for, please contact us. WPCE Office The Office for Workforce, Professional and Community Education (WPCE) facilitates the development and delivery of the University's workforce training and professional development programs. The WPCE can provide information regarding the many career-relevant academic programs and certifications the University offers. We work closely with faculty and student service units and departments across Wichita State University to ensure that workforce, professional and community education programs deliver the same high level of education and support that students have come to expect from the faculty and staff here at WSU. Workforce, Professional and Community Education reports to the Provost, Dr. Richard Muma. Areas under WPCE include: Badges Commencement Community Education Conference Office Eugene M. Hughes Metropolitan Complex Lifelong Learning Departments we work with WPCE works with a variety of offices across campus to provide workforce education. Departments below are partners and provide specialized education in their area. Center for Entrepreneurship Community Engagement Institute Center for Management Development Hugo Wall School of Public Affairs National Institute for Aviation Research Public Policy & Management Center 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©