Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook More Sign Ons... Seed Science Center Main menu Main Menu Home About Us Programs & Facilities News & Events Education & Outreach Contact Us Seed Lab Student ASTA Membership Welcome to the ISU Seed Science Center More than 100 Years of Excellence in Seed Testing, Research, and Outreach The Seed Science Center at Iowa State University is a center of excellence nationally and internationally in seed research, education, technology transfer, and international seed programs. It provides a focus for teaching, research, and extension programs on seed in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences and it is a global leader in introducing science into policy to benefit world seed trade. Directed by Dr. Misra, the Seed Science Center is home to the largest public seed testing laboratory in the world. For more than 100 years, the lab has provided accurate and professional seed-testing services for members of the seed industry. Seed Science Center faculty members are committed to providing quality research and education to produce the next generation of leaders in the seed industry. Faculty specializing in seed physiology, seed pathology, risk management, and seed conditioning conduct cutting-edge research projects in sustainable agriculture, biotechnology, crop utilization, computer technologies, microbiology, toxicology, and molecular biology. Working to provide access to quality seed, facilitating seed trade, and promoting the growth and development of the seed industry are important missions of the Center's Global Programs. In the past 20 years, center scientists have designed and conducted programs in more than 80 countries around the world to achieve these goals. For more information about the Seed Science Center at Iowa State University, contact seedsci@iastate.edu. News Seed Conditioning and Quality Testing Workshops are Back and In-Person April 26, 2022 Iowa State University is once again offering a series of workshops on seed conditioning and quality testing procedures this summer. The workshop dates are rapidly approaching, so we are sending this brief reminder in the event either you or a co-worker might be interested in the program. These are small group sessions that feature a mix of classroom and “hands on” equipment operation... ISU SSC holds sock and glove drive to help Iowa’s sister state, Cherkasy, Ukraine March 31, 2022 People all over the world are showing support for Ukraine as its citizens try to fend off a Russian invasion that has left hundreds dead, thousands homeless and millions fearful of what could become of their country. But for Iowa, it is a personal matter that hits close to home. “Iowa and Cherkasy, Ukraine have been sister states since 1996 so when they asked for help, we... Help Wanted! Seed Conditioning Technician Summer Intern March 21, 2022 Job Title: Seed Conditioning Lab Technician Category: Lab / Research Job Location: On Campus Assist with seed conditioning research operations, industry workshops, and academic training programs. Responsibilities include (but are not limited to) seed cleaning equipment operation & maintenance, material handling, and routine cleaning & organizational tasks. ... All News Related Sites ISU Seed Laboratory ISU Seed Lab Weblocker Log-in Graduate Program in Seed Technology and Business BIGMAP (Biosafety Institute for Genetically Modified Agricultural Products) National Seed Health System Twitter Tweets by isuseedsci Iowa State University Seed Science Center | Manjit K. Misra, Director 102A Seed Science Center, 2115 Osborn Drive, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011-1050. Ph. (515) 294-6821, Fax (515) 294-2014. Email: seedsci@iastate.edu homepage: www.seeds.iastate.edu Seed Science Center Hours: Monday-Friday 8:00-5:00 p.m. Summer Hours: 7:30 a.m.- 4:00 p.m. Seed Laboratory: www.seedlab.iastate.edu Connect with us! Facebook Twitter Site Index Site map Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility