Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Academics Core Curriculum Outcomes Departments Majors & Minors Academic Calendar Registrar IT Services Faculty & Staff In-processing DEVELOPING INTELLECTS, LEADERS AND LIFETIME SUPPORTERS DIVISIONS, DEPARTMENTS & PROGRAMS You can get a good education at any college or university. At the United States Air Force Academy, we broaden your horizons, galvanize your character, and help you pave the way to an exciting career. Here, a world-class education is just the beginning. With 20 different departments and a broad core curriculum, cadets can be certain they’ll find an area of study that interests and challenges them. Browse the list below to discover more information on each department. BASIC SCIENCES DIVISION Biology Cadets study different facets of biology within our molecular biology lab, life sciences research center, aerospace physiology lab, genetics lab, cadaver lab and greenhouse. Learn about the Department of Biology Chemistry Provides a curriculum for cadets interested in chemistry, biochemical chemistry, or engineering chemistry to pursue positions in research, development, graduate school, or medical/dental school. Learn about the Department of Chemistry Mathematical Sciences Offers an education in problem solving, analytical reasoning, and technical communication skills that allow cadets to tackle the complex operational, managerial, and technical problems that routinely challenge Air Force officers. Learn about the Department of Mathematical Sciences Physics and Meteorology Helps cadets become great thinkers, to understand the laws and equations behind the devices that enable our modern technological society, and to develop real-world solutions to enhance the capabilities of the Air Force and Department of Defense. Learn about the Department of Physics and Meteorology ENGINEERING DIVISION Aeronautics Supports cadets, the Air Force, and the world through studies in aerodynamics, flight mechanics, propulsion, aircraft structures, and experimental methods. Learn about the Department of Aeronautics Astronautics Cadets design and build rockets and missiles, communications satellites, space navigational systems, space vehicles, and other assets that contribute to our national economy and security. Learn about the Department of Astronautics Civil & Environmental Engineering Prepares cadets for careers as civil engineers, which design, build, and sustainably maintain the physical infrastructure of the largest weapons platform in the Air Force inventory—the Air Force Installation. Learn about the Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering Computer & Cyber Sciences Helps cadets develop computer-based skills and abilities that can be applied in all Air Force career fields. Learn about the Department of Computer & Cyber Sciences Electrical & Computer Engineering Provides cadets with the hardware and software skills to design, develop, and analyze modern electronic, communications, and computer systems. Learn about the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering is a broad-based and flexible program, allowing cadets to focus in many important disciplines, such as structures, materials, thermal-fluid systems, and dynamic/mechatronic systems. Learn about the Department of Mechanical Engineering Systems Engineering Program Develops officers who are prepared to address the complex engineering and management challenges presented by modern systems design, development, and operation. Learn about the Systems Engineering Program HUMANITIES DIVISION English & Fine Arts Leaders throughout history have used their skills as readers, thinkers, and communicators to effect change. Our department is committed to improving the reading, writing, and speaking skills of all cadets. Learn about the Department of English & Fine Arts Foreign Languages & International Programs The Department of Foreign Languages & International Programs develops leaders of character with global perspective through world class language and culture education. Learn about the Department of Foreign Languages & International Programs History Teaches history for the profession of arms and provides a natural forum for the discussion of great leaders, past and present, insights that are invaluable to any future leader of this country. Learn about the Department of History Philosophy Guides cadets to undertake their study of philosophy and religion as part of a life of energetic inquiry aimed at developing the virtues appropriate to a leader of character. Learn about the Department of Philosophy SOCIAL SCIENCES DIVISION Behavioral Sciences & Leadership Provides a scientific foundation for understanding human behavior across multiple domains using Psychology, Sociology, Human Factors Engineering, and Leadership disciplines. Learn about the Department of Behavioral Sciences & Leadership Economics & Geosciences Providing structures, principles, frameworks, and techniques to assess the world and our relationships within it. Learn about the Department of Economics & Geosciences Law Cadets develop analytical skills and build expertise in the study of law and its role and function in both American society and the international community. Learn about the Department of Law Management From accounting to marketing to human resource management, our department develops the skills cadets need to be critical thinkers for today’s dynamic, technologically complex, global environment. Learn about the Department of Management Military & Strategic Studies Prepares cadets to think strategically and creatively in order to lead and operate across the spectrum of conflict throughout the globe. Learn about the Department of Military & Strategic Studies Political Science Prepares cadets to comprehend domestic and international political events by examining political theories and ideologies, international relations, American politics, international security, defense decision-making, and more. Learn about the Department of Political Science ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.