Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Transportation Office Site Navigation Home Applications & Forms Biking Brown University Shuttle Brown Daytime Shuttle Brown Evening Shuttle Shuttle Tracker Website Shuttle Tracker Mobile Application Access Shuttle Brown onCall Carpooling Contact Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Parking RIPTA UPass Transportation Management Plan Zipcar B.U.S. Tracker Real-Time Locations Print this Page Share this Page Transportation Office Brown University Box 1865 69 Brown Street Page Robinson Hall, Suite 511 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3157 Fax 401-863-1233 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Transportation Office Brown University Shuttle Brown Daytime Shuttle Brown Daytime Shuttle Operating Monday – Friday 7:00 am – 7:00 pm Brown offers two shuttle routes servicing College Hill, the Jewelry District, and the hospitals. The service is available to all Brown students, faculty, staff and hospital affiliates with a Brown University ID. In addition, Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) students may ride using their RISD ID. Passengers must show appropriate identification before boarding the shuttle. Express Route - Providing expedited service between College Hill and the Jewelry District, the route has a total of 8 stops starting at Hillel (corner of Brown and Angell Streets) and runs along Eddy/Dyer Streets and terminates at South Street Landing before returning to College Hill. The route runs on approximately 10-minute intervals and is serviced by two shuttles equipped with front mounted bicycle racks, vehicle graphics, and front designation signs. Connector Route - Connecting College Hill, the Jewelry District, and the hospitals, the route has a total of 22 stops running in both directions between Power/Brook Streets along Brook St (Fox Point neighborhood), South Street Landing and the Alpert Medical School with a loop on one end servicing the hospital and Coro Building and on the other end servicing multiple locations on College Hill including the Athletic Center and Pembroke Campus. The route runs on approximately 20-minute intervals and is serviced by two shuttles equipped with front mounted bicycle racks, vehicle graphics, and front designation signs. The Connector and Express Route Maps are included within the related files below. Shuttle Tracking Track the current location of the shuttle using http://brownshuttle.com or use the TransLoc Rider iPhone/Android app. In addition, you can find out when the next shuttle will arrive by texting the stop ID. Text 41411 and text Brown space Stop ID (see sign or map) and the arrival time of the next two shuttles will be provided. Related Files Daytime Connector Route Map Also in Transportation Office Site Navigation Home Applications & Forms Biking Brown University Shuttle Brown Daytime Shuttle Brown Evening Shuttle Shuttle Tracker Website Shuttle Tracker Mobile Application Access Shuttle Brown onCall Carpooling Contact Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Parking RIPTA UPass Transportation Management Plan Zipcar B.U.S. Tracker Real-Time Locations Print this Page Share this Page Transportation Office Brown University Box 1865 69 Brown Street Page Robinson Hall, Suite 511 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3157 Fax 401-863-1233 [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Quick Links Brown University Shuttle Tracker [email protected] RIDOT Traffic Updates Zipcar Brown Card Services Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity