Skip to site alert. Skip to content Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research Newsletter News Events Videos People Search About Us About Us Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Initiatives and Committees Implementation Science COVID-19 Research Initiative Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Opioid Crisis Response Learning Health System Initiative Services and Programs Our Impact Our Impact A Model for Collaboration Testimonials Publications People Impact Stories Narratives of Discovery People Irving Scholars Mentor of the Year Award Pilot Awardees Scholars, Trainees, and Fellows Join a Study Join a Study What is Health Research? Research Registries and Studies Community Health Resources You are here Home > About Us > Initiatives and Committees > Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees Implementation Science COVID-19 Research Initiative Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Opioid Crisis Response Learning Health System Initiative News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee The mission of the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee at the Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research is to work to advance health equity through program-wide efforts to remove obstacles impacting healthcare, clinical research, and an inclusive healthcare workforce. We aim to achieve this by examining internal policies, building a diverse and inclusive workforce and workforce environment, providing resources for health equity research, and increasing community participation and communication. Within this scope, the Irving Institute has the potential to significantly impact and improve the health of our community at large. What Does Health Equity Mean? Credit: Interaction Institute for Social Change Artist: Angus Maguire “Health equity means that everyone has a fair and just opportunity to be as healthy as possible. This requires removing obstacles to health such as poverty, discrimination, and their consequences, including powerlessness and lack of access to good jobs with fair pay, quality education and housing, safe environments, and health care.” “For the purposes of measurement, health equity means reducing and ultimately eliminating disparities in health and its determinants that adversely affect excluded or marginalized groups.” Braveman, Paula. (2017, June 22). A New Definition Of Health Equity To Guide Future Efforts And Measure Progress. https://www.healthaffairs.org/do/10.1377/hblog20170622.060710/full/ Members: Aris Floratos, PhD Anoop Yadiki Candida Perez, BA Chunhua Weng PhD Delfy Velazquez Dejda Collins, MA Elisabeth DiMaria, MHA Harley Lynch Harold Pincus, MD Helena Rincon, MA Henry N. Ginsberg, MD Julie Kornfeld, PhD, MPH Kayla Zalcgendler, MSPH Linda Alston Mary Purcell, BA Michelle McClave, MS Mitchell Elkind, MD, MS Muredach Reilly, MBBCh, MSCE Nancy Green, MD Olajide Williams, MD Rafael Lantigua, MD Sandra Soo-Jin Lee, PhD Sean Hobson Shing Lee, PhD Zainab Abedin, MPH Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Services and Programs Our Impact Join a Study Contact Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Back to top