Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Schlesinger Library / Collections Schlesinger Library / Collections Blackwell Family The extraordinary Blackwell family, four generations of whom are represented in these papers, played important roles in 19th and 20th century American social reform movements: abolition of slavery, women’s rights, woman’s suffrage, and temperance. For more than a century and across generations, the Blackwells offered each other advice on courtship, marriage, finances, domestic relations, health, and childrearing. In addition to personal and family matters, these documents highlight the important issues the Blackwell family confronted. Toggle information Close detail panel Group portrait of members of the Blackwell family on a dwelling porch, 1902 Dec. Blackwell Family Papers. Related Detailed Biographies of Family Members Blackwell Family Papers Hannah (1792–1870) and Samuel (1790–1838) Blackwell immigrated to the United States from England with their nine children in 1832. Their extraordinary family, four generations of whom are represented in these papers, went on to play important roles in 19th and 20th century American social reform movements: abolition of slavery, women’s rights, woman’s suffrage, and temperance. Two of their daughters were pioneering doctors; Elizabeth Blackwell (1821–1910) was the first woman to obtain a medical degree in the United States, and she and her sister Emily (1826–1910) were instrumental in promoting medical education for women. Their brother Henry Browne Blackwell (1825–1909), his wife Lucy Stone (1818–1893), and their daughter Alice Stone Blackwell (1857–1950) were known for their leading roles in the abolition, woman’s suffrage, and prohibition movements; and their sister-in-law Antoinette Brown Blackwell (1825–1921) was the first woman ordained as a minister in the United States and an active social reform lecturer. View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 05 Slide left Slide right Blackwell Family 01 / 05 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel Group portrait of members of the Blackwell family on a dwelling porch, 1902 Dec. Blackwell Family Papers. Details Close detail panel Portrait of Marian Blackwell, ca. 1840-1860. Blackwell Family Papers. Details Close detail panel Portrait of Elizabeth Blackwell seated with an open book on her lap, ca. 1880-1890. Blackwell Family Papers. Details Close detail panel Levick, Edwin. View of Antoinette Louisa Brown Blackwell (right) and Alice Stone Blackwell (left) seated in a horse-drawn carriage decorated with flowers for a parade. The carriage is parked next to a sidewalk. A woman driver is seated on the front bench of the carriage; four African American men and women stand behind the carriage in the street, ca. 1913-1917. Blackwell Family Papers. Details Close detail panel Woman's Journal button with portrait of Lucy Stone. Blackwell Family Papers. For more than a century and across generations, the Blackwells offered each other advice on courtship, marriage, finances, domestic relations, health, and childrearing. In addition to personal and family matters, these documents highlight the important issues the Blackwell family confronted: abolition; the women’s rights and woman’s suffrage movements in the United States and England; temperance; education of women and the entrance of women into the professions; public health; and Utopian movements. Notable correspondents include abolitionists Gerritt Smith, Julia Ward Howe and Samuel Howe, Horace Greeley, and William Lloyd Garrison; suffrage activists Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony; and English women doctors with whom Elizabeth Blackwell collaborated and worked. Records of the Woman’s Journal, a weekly newspaper focused on women’s rights and suffrage issues, founded by Henry Blackwell and Lucy Stone in 1870, are included in this collection. Letters, deeds, and financial records document the many communities in which the Blackwells lived: East Orange, New Jersey; Gardner, Martha's Vineyard, and Cambridge, Massachusetts; Ohio; New York City; London. Individual family members contributed their energy, zeal, and reform-mindedness to their local communities and to the greater American society. The digitization of the Schlesinger Library’s Blackwell family papers was generously funded by the National Historical Publications and Records Commission in 2013–2015. Collections 01 / 05 Slide left Slide right 01 Susan B. Anthony 02 Beecher-Stowe Family 03 Charlotte Perkins Gilman 04 Alice Paul 05 Maud Wood Park Papers in the Woman's Rights Collection See All Collections Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College