Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] Charter Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers About» Letter from the Chair What is Mechanical Engineering? Academics» Doctoral Program Masters Program Undergraduate Program Teaching Laboratories Research» Biomechanics and Mechanics of Materials Control, Robotics, Design, and Manufacturing Energy, Fluid Mechanics, and Heat/Mass Transfer MEMS and Nanotechnology Biological Engineering and Biotechnology Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Careers» Alumni Students Employers People News Bulletin External Advisory Board Mechanical Engineering Home > News Columbia Student Nikita Manjuluri wins Brooke Owens Fellowship Jan 28 2022 Nikita Manjuluri, a Mechanical Engineering student at Columbia University has won the prestigious Brooke Owens Fellowship! She was selected as 1 of 51 students out of 1000+ applications worldwide. Nikita is a 2022 Brooke Owens fellow and a third-year in SEAS studying mechanical engineering. During summer of 2021, Nikita interned at Made In Space in Jacksonville, Florida as a Zed Factor Fellow. Through the internship, she was able to use CAD and 3D printing to model test fixtures and mock payloads in order to aid in the company’s in-space additive manufacturing efforts. On campus, she is involved in the Columbia Space Initiative rocketry team, helping with airframe design and manufacturing. Outside of her aerospace endeavors, Nikita is the Program Manager for the Engineers Without Borders Morocco program, which aims to create a sustainable water distribution system for a community in rural Morocco. She also works in the Robotic Manipulation and Mobility Lab, iterating on and implementing underactuated tendon-driven robotic hand designs. This summer, Nikita is incredibly excited to work at Relativity Space in Long Beach, California. 500 W. 120th Steet #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University