Introducing the huge the enormous the well-endowed undefeated Ivy League champion University of Pennsylvania oxymoronic fighting Quaker marching band The Penn Band $500,000 Endowment Challenge! Click to learn more! Who the #$%@ is the Penn Band? The Penn Band was founded in 1897 and ever since has been one of the University's most progressive traditions. The organization is a part of the Department of Athletics at the University of Pennsylvania; like most of the other 50+ performing arts groups on the Penn Campus, the Penn Band has no affiliation with any academic department and is sponsored by the Vice Provost's Office for Undergraduate Life. The organization today is almost 130 members-strong and stands among the largest and most active student-run organizations on-campus, performing upwards of 100 times during the academic year and the guardians of all things 'Red and Blue.' The organization boasts a rich history of performance, including performances with the renowned band masters like John Phillip Sousa, Roland Seitz, and Edwin Franko Goldman, the first collegiate band to march in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, countless recordings, national broadcasts and concerts, and performing at the pleasure of numerous American presidents and state leaders. LEARN MORE We're not your ordinary college marching band. WHAT'S A SCRAMBLE BAND? The Penn Band goes everywhere In 1901, The Penn Band became the first college band to travel on the road for an intercollegiate football game. Ever since, the Roadtrip has been a major part of the Penn Band Experience. Today, our group is the only college band in the country to travel to all conference men's basketball games on the road. Est. 1897 EXPLORE OUR HISTORY You're already in! All you need to do to join is attend our First Rehearsal on Wednesday, September 1st at 6pm. See you there :) Fill out the Interest Form Membership in the Penn Band is all-inclusive, and full of perks.All you have to do is come to our Introductory Rehearsal or next weekly Monday night rehearsal at the Platt Center at 6PM. If you have any questions, check out our website, fill out the Interest Form, and feel free to shoot us an email at joinus@pennband.net.The Penn Band welcomes instrumentalists of all types and talents, from keytar to zither to the more traditional brass, woodwind and percussionists. It doesn't matter what year you're in. We welcome all Penn undergraduate and graduate students. It's never too late to join the Penn Band! LEARN MORE The University of Pennsylvania The Platt Student Performing Arts House The Department of Athletics VPUL SAC A student organization at the University of Pennsylvania @ 2022 University of Pennsylvania Band