By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate First Generation Students More from this Section Counselors Contacts & Questions Native American Apply Veterans International Transfer First-Year Admitted First Generation Students Ensuring an unsurpassed student experience is paramount to Syracuse University—especially when it comes to students who are the first in their family or support system to go to college. With 19%* of the undergraduate student body identifying as first generation, we are committed to helping you pursue your dreams and reach your goals through resources and opportunities that demonstrate our ongoing commitment to access and inclusion. Irene and Morris B. Kessler Presidential Scholars Program Students selected for the Kessler Presidential Scholars Program not only receive four years of substantial scholarship aid, but also have access to holistic services that enhance their experience and success on campus. In addition to warm and welcoming programs and events hosted to build community among the Kessler Scholars, each student is connected to a peer mentor, participates in career-enrichment activities, engages in community projects and receives support to study abroad. There is no separate application for the Kessler Presidential Scholarship. When you apply to Syracuse University, you are automatically considered for the Kessler Presidential Scholarship if neither of your parents graduated from college (as indicated on your Common Application). ’Cuse First Pre-Welcome Program For new students, this two-day program held directly before new student orientation (Syracuse Welcome) helps first-generation students connect and prepare for their academic career. Sessions cover study tips, how to navigate the University, managing finances and more. Learn more about the ’Cuse First Pre-Welcome Program . Many2Come Student Organization This student organization provides a free space for you to express concerns and gain advice from other students, panels, guest speakers and more. The mission of Many2Come is to make Syracuse University a place of opportunity for everyone, no matter their starting point or privileges. Additional Support Programs and Resources Below are programs and offices that traditionally support a large number of first-generation students. Some students engage in multiple programs and offices. WellsLink Leadership Program This award-winning academic excellence and leadership program provides academic, social and cultural enrichment activities for first-year students of color. WellsLink scholars are trained for success and leadership at SU and beyond. Learn more about the WellsLink Leadership Program . Native Student Program and Other Resources Syracuse University is just minutes from the heartland of Haudenosaunee territory and is invested in a relationship with our Indigenous neighbors that promotes cross-cultural dialogue, research opportunities and stronger appreciation for Native American leadership and contribution. The Native Student Program is designed to support students during their transition to Syracuse and throughout their entire undergraduate experience. Learn more about the Native Student Program and find additional resources on our Native American Students page . OrangeSeeds OrangeSeeds acquaints passionate first-year students with the campus and its leaders, and challenges new students to become actively involved during their first semester on campus. Through a number of learning and community service opportunities, Seeds engage with the Syracuse campus and greater city in need. Learn more about OrangeSeeds . Academic Opportunity Programs Collegiate Science and Technology Entry Program (CSTEP) Higher Education Opportunity Program (HEOP) Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (LSAMP) Ronald E. McNair Post Baccalaureate Academic Achievement Program TRIO Student Support Services Program (SSSP) Campus Offices Office of First-Year and Transfer Programs Office of Multicultural Affairs : Mentoring programs, including WellsLink Leadership Program, Dimensions Mentoring Program, fullCIRCLE Mentoring Program, Men of Color Initiative and Native Student Program Office of Multicultural Advancement : Provides the Our Time Has Come Scholarship Important Links Accessibility and Support Services and Support Virtual Sessions and Tours Apply to Syracuse University Special Aid Programs *Of the undergraduate students matriculated at Syracuse University in fall 2020, 19% (2,717) are first-generation students. Related Pages Undergraduate Majors and Minors Choose from more than 200 majors and over 100 minors and embrace the interdisciplinary nature of Syracuse University’s academic options. Virtual Campus Tour Explore Syracuse University from the comfort of your own home. Cost and Aid Learn how we work to make a Syracuse University education affordable. Admitted Students Prepare to make your mark intellectually while making a difference on campus and in the world. Request Information We’re here to help you with your college search. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy