HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation FACILITIES Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Fitness Center Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Hours Facility Counts Floor Plan FITNESS AND WELLNESS Group Fitness F45 Small Group Training Fitness Assessments Personal Training Wellness Zone INTRAMURAL SPORTS CORE CORE Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CLUB SPORTS Club Sports Homepage Club Officer Resources Visiting Team Resources Group Fitness F45 Fitness Assessments Personal Training Small Group Training Wellness Zone Online Registration The Wellness Zone The Wellness Zone is an area in the lobby of the Fike Recreation Center that serves as a hub for departments across campus to provide fun, quick activities and informational seminars that expose and connect students to wellness resources. All programs in the Wellness Zone are designed to target at least one of the eight components of the wellness wheel: Emotional Wellness: having a positive attitude, high self-esteem, a strong sense of self and the ability to recognize and share a wide range of feelings with others in a constructive way. Spiritual Wellness: finding meaning in life events, demonstrating individual purpose and having the ability to be compassionate towards others. Intellectual Wellness: being open to new ideas, thinking critically, and seeking out new challenges. Occupational Wellness: seeking and/or having a career that is interesting, enjoyable, and positively contributes to society. Physical Wellness: adopting healthy behaviors to prepare our bodies for optimal health and functioning. Environmental Wellness: being aware of the interactions between the environment, community and ourselves. Financial Wellness: understanding the importance of sustaining ourselves financially for the short and long term. Social Wellness: the ability to build personal connections with others, deal with conflict and to be a part of a positive social network. Interested in partnering with CU Fitness & Wellness to bring Wellness Zone events to Fike? Please call 864-656-2350 or email cufitness@clemson.edu. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster