Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Hispanic Studies News & Announcements Hispanic Studies News & Announcements The Department of Hispanic Studies is pleased to present “Creando un artefacto,” an artistic collective exhibition by Brown University Advanced Spanish Students (Fall 2021). Welcome to our digital gallery! Congratulations to Micaela Camacho-Tenreiro & Benjamin Nelson The Hispanic Studies Department at Brown University is delighted to announce that the pieces Sobre/vivir poemas desde el no querer (poetry) by Micaela Camacho-Tenreiro and La Malinche (short story) by Benjamin Nelson are the winners of the 2021 Borderlands Literary Prize on Latin American & Latinx Diversity. ¡Felicitaciones!* About the winners: Micaela Camacho-Tenreiro ‘21.5 (they/ella) is an early stage: facilitator, medical interpreter, somatics practitioner, and artist; an expert: cat lady, lavender enthusiast; and current: Communications Coordinator at the Department of the History of Art & Architecture. Their work explores queerness, power, trauma, and the diasporic qualities of madness within children of immigrants, and has appeared in Blue Literary Magazine and Spring Up: Cultivating a Culture of Consent and Liberty for All. Benjamin Nelson He is a first-year at Brown University interested in double majoring in English and Hispanic Studies. He is an editor for The Round Magazine, a copy editor for The Brown Daily Herald, and has varying roles as part of Brown Motion Pictures. He is also a member of the Brown Screenwriting Collective, Write it Brown Noveling Club, and Brown's Ping Pong Club. After college, he would like to work in the television industry as a writer or in the publishing industry as an editor. Read Sobre/vivir poemas desde el no querer and La Malinche here. Congratulations to Ethel Barja Cuyutupa The Department of Hispanic Studies congratulates Ethel Barja Cuyutupa, who successfully defended her dissertation, “Tiempo de promesa: resonancias de la Revolución cubana en la poesía latinoamericana” on July 12, 2021. ¡Enhorabuena! Congratulations to Berta García Faet The Department of Hispanic Studies congratulates Berta García Faet, who successfully defended her dissertation, “Poéticas de la niñería: infantilidad, resistencia y subversión en la poesía latinoamericana e ibérica contemporánea” on July 2, 2021. ¡Enhorabuena! Congratulations to Nicolás Campisi We are delighted to share the news that Nicolás Campisi is one of this year's CLACS Dissertation Prize Winners. For more information, go to the CLACS news page. ¡Felicitaciones Nicolás! Fri, June 4, 2021 An image is worth 1000 words and we want to see what you have to say! THe Department of Hispanic Studies invites Brown and RISD undergraduate and graduate students to design a profile picture/avatar for our social media accounts on FB and IG. We ask students to visually reflect on what Spanish, Latinx and/or Latin American Languages, Cultures and Literatures mean to you? Can you put it in an image? No words allowed! Please submit a JPEG or PDF (300+ppi) along with a ~250 word description of your artwork in English, Spanish, or Spanglish! Enter for your chance to win up to $100 in Amazon gift cards - good luck! Submit by: Sept 15, 2021 Email: [email protected] Congratulations to the following Hispanic Studies students who graduated on Sunday May 2nd 2021. Melanie Anaya Sabrina Bajwa Callie J. Bednarek Siobhan Brennan Paris Karniadakis Min Ji Cindy Koh Elisabeth Lualdi Gabriel Schillinger-Hyman Rachel Souza Lona Tehrani Congratulations to Jordan Jones Jordan Jones has been hired for a tenure-track position at Brigham Young University beginning fall 2021. ¡Enhorabuena Jordan! Congratulations to Iris Montero Visiting assistant professor Iris Montero has just been awarded honorable mention, from the Latin American Studies Association Colonial Section, for the "2021 Best Article in Colonial Latin American Studies by a Junior Scholar" for her article "The Disguise of the Hummingbird: On the Natural History of Huitzilopochtli in the Florentine Codex," Ethnohistory 67.3 (2020). Additionally, she been awarded a fall 2021 fellowship from the Institute of Advanced Studies in Princeton where she will be working on an exciting new book project titled Souls for Silver: Order, Virtue and Extraction in Colonial Latin America. ¡Enhorabuena, Iris! ¡Enhorabuena a nuestro colega y amigo Felipe Martínez-Pinzón, que acaba de obtener su tenure! Congratulations to Laura Bass! Prof. Laura Bass and her colleague Tanya Tiffany (University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee) have been awarded an NEH Scholarly Translation Grant for their project, "The Autobiography of a Seventeenth-Century Painter and Nun, Estefanía de la Encarnación". ¡Enhorabuena Laura y Tanya! Congratulations to Nicolás Campisi The Department of Hispanic Studies congratulates Nicolás Campisi, who successfully defended his dissertation, “El retorno de lo contemporáneo: La novela latinoamericana en el fin de los tiempos” on July 21, 2020. ¡Enhorabuena! Hispanic Studies DUG Raises Funds for Local Non-Profit The Providence Refugee Dream Center is a post resettlement refugee agency that greatly contributes to the enhancement of the cultural and community development in Rhode Island. During these unprecedented times when everyone is separated by the global pandemic, HS concentrators and DUG leaders, Ahjeetha Shankar and Samuel Orenstein, organized a global social media fundraiser to help this Center. They partnered up with a corporate organization that would match their fundraised amount by 200%. Consequently, they fundraised a grand total of $1,365 (surpassing the initial goal of $500.00)! Congratulations to Sam and Ahjeetha for such a fantastic initiative! We are very proud of you! http://www.refugeedreamcenter.org/ Congratulations to Michelle Clayton Prof. Michelle Clayton was selected for 2020 for the Graduate School Faculty Awards for Advising and Mentoring. ¡Felicitaciones Michelle! Congratulations to Mai Hunt Congratulations to graduate student Mai Hunt; she has been awarded the David and Ruth Kossoff Prize for Leadership in Language Teaching. ¡Enhorabuena! Congratulations to Sarah Thomas Congratulations to our brilliant and beloved colleague, mentor, and friend Sarah Thomas on being awarded tenure. ¡Felicitaciones! Congratulations to Ethel Barja The Department of Hispanic Studies congratulates Ethel Barja on the launch of her new book Travesía invertebrada. Read more about her book, the book launch and a selection of her poems here. Ezio Neyra Named New Director of National Library in Lima We're delighted to share the news that our former student Ezio Neyra, PhD 2013, has just been appointed director of the National Library in Lima. Read the full story here Congratulations to Ian Russell The Department of Hispanic Studies congratulates Ian Russell, who successfully defended his dissertation, "Temporalities of Desire: Queer Relations across the Spanish Atlantic" on December 17, 2019. ¡Enhorabuena! Congratulations to Luis Miguel Estrada Orozco The Department of Hispanic Studies is delighted to announce that Luis Miguel Estrada Orozco has just been admitted into Mexico's Sistema Nacional de Creadores de Arte (SNCA). Akin to the NEA in this country, this prestigious award is granted by the Fondo Nacional para la Cultura y las Artes, the most important federally funded system for artists in Mexico, and comes with a three-year writing grant. Since its creation in 1993, the SNCA has supported several Mexican authors including: Guadalupe Nettel, Cristina Rivera Garza, Antonio Ortuño, and Emiliano Monge. Congratulations Luis Miguel! Congratulations to Tess Clifton Congratulations to Tess Clifton for successfully defending her PhD thesis: "Mexican Arcadias: The Mannerist Pastoral Fiction of New Spain" on Monday, August 19, 2019. Congratulations to Michelle Clayton Prof. Michelle Clayton received the John Rowe Workman Award for Excellence in Teaching in the Humanities on May 26, 2019. Congratulations to Nicolás Campisi Nico has been awarded a Sarmiento Fellowship for 2019-2020. This will allow him to teach a course of his own design in CLACS in Spring 2020, on ecocriticism and Latin American literature. Congratulations to Ian Russell Ian has been awarded a Dean's Faculty Fellowship for 2019-2020. This will allow him to teach a course of his own design in Hispanic Studies in Spring 2020, on queer aesthetics in Spanish. Congratulations to Flor Chiaramonte and Berta García Faet María Florencia Chiaramonte and Berta García Faet were joint winners of the David and Ruth Kossoff Prize for Leadership in Language Teaching. Congratulations to Claudia Becerra Méndez and Miguel Rosas Buendia The Department of Hispanic Studies congratulates Dr. Claudia Becerra Mendéz and Dr. Miguel Rosas Buendia. They received their PhD at Commencement on Sunday, May 26, 2019. ¡Felicidades Claudia y Miguel! Congratulations to the following Hispanic Studies students who graduated on Sunday, May 26, 2019 Matthew Dwelle Adam Malkin Cathlyn Medina Ellie Park Madison Rivlin Congratulations to Miguel Rosas Buendia Congratulations to Dr. Miguel Rosas Buendia, who successfully defended his dissertation "Mariano de Rivero y un diálogo tecnológico con el mundo andino" on Tuesday, May 8, 2019. ¡Enhorabuena! Hispanic Studies Graduate Berta García Faet Wins Prestigious Premio Nacional de Poesía Joven Miguel Hernández 2018 Berta García Faet, a 4th year doctoral candidate in the Department of Hispanic Studies, is the 2018 recipient of El Premio Nacional de Poesía Joven Miguel Hernández, one of Spain's most prestigious literary prizes, for her book Los salmos fosforitos. Given by the Ministry of Culture and Sports, the prize comes with an award of 20,000 euros. Faet, who has published seven volumes of poetry, stated: "This prize means a lot to me. It connects me to my country, my people, and to the books and authors I love and that inspire me. I admire all the poets who have won it before me, and I've been dreaming for years now to be part of this story. It's a recognition that has a political importance as well, since historically speaking literature and culture have not been very much supported in Spain, but in the last years the Premios Nacionales (National Prizes) have changed the trend. And last but not least, this prize bears the name "Miguel Hernández", my father's favorite poet, whose "Nanas de la cebolla" we've read together, and talked about, many times.". Faet is writing her dissertation on "Poéticas de la niñería. Fantasía y cursilería en la poesía latinoamericana e ibérica contemporánea". Congratulations to Claudia Becerra Congratulations to Dr. Claudia Becerra for successfully defending her PhD thesis: "Personas, animales y objetos en la poesía latinoamericana contemporánea" on Friday, December 7, 2018. ¡Enhorabuena! The JCB Library salutes the life and legacy of Pepe Amor y Vázquez (1921-2018) This past February, the JCB and Hispanic Studies community was saddened to hear of the passing of José "Pepe" Amor y Vázquez. On Friday, October 5 at 11am, the JCB and the Department of Hispanic Studies will celebrate his life and career with a special reception at the JCB, followed by a luncheon at the nearby Faculty Club. Please join us if you can; to RSVP. contact Maureen O'Donnell ([email protected]). Congratulations to Felipe Martínez-Pinzón Prof. Felipe Martínez-Pinzón was awarded the The Henry Merritt Wriston Fellowship. This Fellowship is awarded each year to regular untenured members of the faculty (assistant professors and lecturers) who have achieved a record of excellence in teaching and scholarship during their first years at Brown. Congratulations to Felipe Martínez-Pinzón Prof. Felipe Martínez-Pinzón received a Salomon Award to write his book "Producing the People: Sketches of Manners and Liberal Reform in Latin America". Prof. Martínez-Pinzón, top row, 5th from the left Congratulations to Miguel Rosas who was awarded a CLACS Fellowship through the Interdisciplinary Opportunitues in the Humanities and Social Sciences program. 2017-18 Ruth & David Kossoff Prize Winner The Department of Hispanic Studies would like to congratulate Nicolás Campisi for winning the 2017-18 Ruth & David Kossoff Prize for Leadership in Language Teaching. ¡Enhorabuena Nico! Congratulations to Ian Russell who was selected by the Graduate Council for the Presidential Award for Excellence in Teaching 2017-18. ¡Enhorabuena Ian! The Department of Hispanic Studies congratulates Dr. Taylor Carrington Leigh. He will be receiving his PhD at Commencement on Sunday, May 26, 2018. ¡Felicidades Taylor! Congratulations to the following Hispanic Studies students who will be graduating on May 27, 2018! Emma J. Axelrod (Literary Arts and Hispanic Studies) Julia Bleier (Hispanic Studies) Clarice E. Brough (Hispanic Studies) Pieter C. Brower (Public Policy and Hispanic Studies) Victoria C. Chávez (Computer Science and Hispanic Studies) Rakel A. Galeano (Education Studies and Hispanic Studies) Geoffrey D. Kocks (Applied Maths-Economics and Hispanic Studies) Alexander J. Mezoff (English and Hispanic Studies) Samantha C. Savello (Hispanic Studies) Hannah M. Velásquez (Economics and Hispanic Studies) Congratulations to Claudia Becerra Claudia Becerra Méndez was awarded the prestigious and competitive Deans’ Faculty Fellowship by the Graduate School and the Dean of the Faculty. Claudia will be teaching her own course in Spring 19 – look out for it! ¡Enhorabuena Claudia! 2017-2018 Lope de Vega & Gabriela Mistral Exam This was established in 1962 by an anonymous gift; Monetary prizes, for men and women respectively, are awarded to members of the freshman class who show excellence in secondary school preparatory work in Spanish. The examination presupposes a minimum of two years' study in a secondary school or its equivalent. Not open to native speakers or students who have studied abroad for more than one month. WINNERS: MISTRAL Sabrina Bajwa LOPE DE VEGA Anoop Gurran Lucas Fried Who was Gabriela Mistral? Who was Lope de Vega? The Department of Hispanic Studies congratulates Dr. Rafael Castillo Bejarano and Dra. Andrea Nate. They are both receiving their PhD at Commencement on Sunday, May 28, 2017. ¡Enhorabuena a los dos! Congratulations to the following Hispanic Studies students who graduated on Sunday May 28th. ¡Felicitaciones! Zoila Bergeron (Hispanic Studies & Literary Arts) Dolan Bortner (Hispanic Studies & International Relations) Nicole Byer (Hispanic Studies & Computer Science) Anjali Carroll (Hispanic Studies & Urban Studies) Verónica Fletcher (Hispanic Studies & Psychology) Antonina Rytwinska (Hispanic Studies & Applied Mathematics- Economics) 2016-2017 Fichter Prize Winners The Department of Hispanic Studies would like to congratulate Dolan Bortner, Anjali Carroll, Verónica Fletcher and Antonina Rytwinska for winning the 2016-17 Fichter Prize. ¡Enhorabuena a las cuatro! Congratulations to Priya Shetty and Rachel Trafimow for taking part in the raffle during the Celebrating Diversity with Ibero American Cinema screenings. They each won a book relating to Spanish and Latin American cinema. HISPANIC STUDIES ALUMNA WINS LATIN GRAMMY Hispanic Studies alumna, Christina Sanabria (Class of 2007, LACA/Hispanic Studies Concentration) and her husband Andrés Salguero of 123 Andrés recently won a Latin Grammy for "Best Children's Album" for their second album, titled Arriba Abajo. Shortly after graduating from Brown, Christina and her husband started working on a bilingual children's music project, 123 Andrés. This project, which has resulted in two albums, creates bilingual (Spanish/English) and bicultural music. In addition to the recently awarded Latin Grammy, their album Arriba Abajo also won the coveted Parents Choice Gold Award for children's music. The album can be found here: Arriba Abajo 2016-2017 Lope de Vega & Gabriela Mistral Exam This was established in 1962 by an anonymous gift; Monetary prizes, for men and women respectively, are awarded to members of the freshman class who show excellence in secondary school preparatory work in Spanish. The examination presupposes a minimum of two years' study in a secondary school or its equivalent. Not open to native speakers or students who have studied abroad for more than one month. The 2016 Lope de Vega Prize and the 2016 Gabriela Mistral Prize were won by the following students: Samuel Orenstein; Aurelie Schaison; Tara Srinivas. Congratulations to all 3 from the Department of Hispanic Studies. Congratulations to Sarah Thomas On Thursday August 25th 2016 Professor Sarah Thomas received a NEA Translation Fellowship for the coming year. For more details go to: https://www.arts.gov/news/2016/nea-announces-23-fellowships-support-literary-translation Congratulations to Sarah Thomas On Monday, May 2nd 2016, Prof. Sarah Thomas was awarded the John Rowe Workman Award for Excellence in Teaching in the Humanities. Book launch On April 7th 2016, Prof. Felipe Martínez Pinzón launched, at Rochambeau House, Entre el humo y la niebla: Guerra y cultura en América Latina (IILI, Pittsburgh 2016), co-edited by Felipe Martínez Pinzón (Brown University) and Javier Uriarte (Stony Brook University). Felipe Martínez Pinzón has also co-edited another book this year, "Revisitar el costumbrismo" (Peter Lang, Frankfurt 2016). Congratulations to Mercedes Vaquero On Tuesday, April 5th 2016, Prof. Mercedes Vaquero received one of the President's Awards for Excellence in Faculty Governance. Congratulations to Nidia Schuhmacher On Monday, May 4th 2015, Prof. Nidia Schuhmacher was awarded the John Rowe Workman Award for Excellence in Teaching in the Humanities. Home Contact us Faculty Graduate Students Current Events News & Announcements Past Events In Memoriam Current Courses Course Placement La Pluma Writing Center Language Evaluations Undergraduate Graduate Program Transatlantic Project Print this Page Share this Page Hispanic Studies Brown University Box 1961 84 Prospect Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3517 Fax 401-863-1669 [email protected] Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Other Resources Brown in Spain Library Resources