Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Population Health Menu Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Home Population Health Resources Grant application support Grant application support Close Menu Home Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Search Climate Change Experts at UW Climate Change Centers & Institutes Disaster and humanitarian experts Search Disaster and Humanitarian Experts at UW Disaster and Humanitarian Centers Other experts Mobile and digital population health Developing apps and mobile technologies Digital technologies for health systems Student groups and programs Tech transfer, commercialization and FDA regulations External community resources Key contacts Social innovation and social entrepreneurship Resources for UW students Resources for UW researchers External resources and information Contact the initiative Funding and awards Pilot research grants Chronic disease pilot grants The Population Health Initiative seeks to support the development and submission of proposals that improve health and well-being here and around the world. To that end, we offer the following resources to support faculty and staff with development of their applications. Letters of support We are pleased to offer letters of support for grant applications that are signed by President Ana Mari Cauce. These letters are intended to demonstrate that population health is a top priority for the University of Washington, and that the UW is broadly supportive of faculty grant applications that seek to better the health of populations here and around the world. To request a letter, please complete the following form. We will screen your submission based on fit with our definition of population health and the overall initiative and will respond within five business days of submission with requests for clarification or a response. Applicant/PI name (required) Applicant/PI job title (required) Your name (if not the Applicant/PI) Your Email (required) Requested return date for a letter of support (required) Name of funder (required) Funding opportunity number (if one exists) Title of funding opportunity (required) Title of your proposed project (required) What is a one-sentence description of the research goal of your application? (required) What is a one- to two-sentence description of how your application addresses our definition of population health? (required) Spam verification (required) Which number is larger, 9 or 10? Δ Consultation Looking for an expert to round out your team? Have questions about navigating the UW? Ask us. The Population Health Initiative is pleased to offer free consultations to support the development of your application. Please complete the following form to reach our team. Name (required) Email (required) Subject (required) Message (required) Spam verification (required) What is the capital of England? Δ Population Health Initiative boilerplate The following boilerplate language can be included in grant applications to help explain the UW’s commitment to population health: The University of Washington sees population health as a broad concept encompassing not only the elimination of diseases and injuries, but also the intersecting and overlapping factors that influence health. These influencing factors include the environment, education, mobility, policy and governance, poverty, racism, infrastructure, access to technology, urban planning, and many more. Together, these issues revolve around three major pillars — human health, environmental resilience, and social and economic equity — that affect the lives of billions of people around the world. Through our Population Health Initiative, we seek to build collaboratively on work taking place across these pillars to create a world where all people can live healthier and more fulfilling lives. Visit the initiative website at uw.edu/populationhealth to learn more. Collaborative proposal development resources The UW’s Office of Research offers a variety of project management tools and templates to support the collaborative development of proposals. These resources range from tools and primers to templates and samples. Learn more Home Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Search Climate Change Experts at UW Climate Change Centers & Institutes Disaster and humanitarian experts Search Disaster and Humanitarian Experts at UW Disaster and Humanitarian Centers Other experts Mobile and digital population health Developing apps and mobile technologies Digital technologies for health systems Student groups and programs Tech transfer, commercialization and FDA regulations External community resources Key contacts Social innovation and social entrepreneurship Resources for UW students Resources for UW researchers External resources and information Contact the initiative Funding and awards Pilot research grants Chronic disease pilot grants What is population health? Population health is a broad concept encompassing not only the elimination of diseases and injuries, but also the intersecting and overlapping factors that influence health. Learn more Population Health Twitter Tweets by UW_PHI Please enable JavaScript to view this widget. Events calendar University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA