Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller News & Events Home » Centers & Initiatives » Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business » Sustainable Business News » Sustainable Business News Menu Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Sustainable Business News About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact May 25, 2022 After Social Distancing, Scheller MBA Students’ First In-Person Case Competition Is Even SweeterRead more April 28, 2022 Georgia Leaders Discuss the Business of Climate SolutionsRead more 2022 2021 2020 Archives May 25, 2022 After Social Distancing, Scheller MBA Students’ First In-Person Case Competition Is Even Sweeter As social distancing restrictions began to ease in early 2022, students again had opportunities to participate in case competitions to try their academic knowledge against real-world scenarios. Scheller College MBA students jumped at the chance to participate in the 2022 Race and Case Competition at the University of Denver Daniels College of Business and Breckenridge Ski Resort, where their skill on the slopes was part of the scoring. Read more April 28, 2022 Georgia Leaders Discuss the Business of Climate Solutions Georgia Tech President Ángel Cabrera and Delta Air Lines CEO Ed Bastian discuss how businesses can make positive changes to address urgent issues such as climate change. The conversation, “The Business of Climate Solutions, Local to Global,” was moderated by SaportaReport editor Maria Saporta and CNN national correspondent Nick Valencia. Read more April 25, 2022 #SchellerAbroad: Scheller MBA Students Travel to Dubai for Sustainability-Focused Practicum The Georgia Tech Scheller MBA International Practicum is a semester-long elective designed to give students on-the-ground international consulting experience, and a greater ability to define, analyze, and solve international business problems. Georgia Tech Scheller Full-time and Evening MBA students reflect on their culminating trip in Dubai. Read more April 14, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Jolie Fouts As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Jolie Fouts. Read more March 14, 2022 Alumna Profile: For Unwanna Etuk, Sustainability is a (Literal) Journey Marching band enthusiasts, rejoice! Unwanna Etuk (pronounced oo-WAH-nuh, EH-tʊk) (BS INTA ’19), partnership coordinator and research analyst at The Ray, credits band with kicking off her sustainability journey. In this latest installment in our series of profiles on sustainability leaders among Georgia Tech alumni, discover how Unwanna translated the leadership skills acquired as a drum major into an early career in sustainability-focused roles. Read more January 26, 2022 Highlights from the Fall 2021 Business, Environment, and Society Speaker Series The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business (“Center”) launched the Business, Environment, and Society Speaker Series in 2016 to develop and strengthen the network of sustainability-minded students, faculty, staff, practitioners, and community members. Hosting the series is just one way in which the Center serves as a connector and catalyst across diverse stakeholders in an effort to create more sustainable communities. Through informative talks, lively Q&As, and illuminating interviews, the series opens the lines of communication between current and future changemakers. Read more January 25, 2022 The Implications of Relative vs. Absolute Rating Systems on Workforce Performance In a recently published paper, Scheller faculty Morvarid Rahmani and Ph.D. student Chris Green studied the effectiveness of two different types of performance ranking systems. Read more January 24, 2022 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business and Equifax Create Partnership to Advance Inclusive Fintech Innovation Dr. Sudheer Chava’s Financial Services Innovation Lab at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, is partnering with Equifax to develop new ways to reach underserved, underbanked, and credit-rebuilding consumers. Read more December 21, 2021 The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Announces 2021-22 Scheller College Graduate Sustainability Fellows and Undergraduate Ambassadors The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is delighted to announce the 2021-22 Graduate Sustainability Fellows and Undergraduate Sustainability Ambassadors. The Fellows and Ambassadors will deepen their engagement in sustainability by working on projects and participating in activities related to sustainable business. Read more December 10, 2021 Alumnus Profile: Meet “Serial Starter” Dave Williams In this latest installment in our series of profiles on sustainability leaders among Georgia Tech alumni, David Eady, the Center’s industry engagement manager senior, speaks with Williams, who also serves as a member of the Center’s Advisory Board. Williams shares his career trajectory, the benefits of a broad education in management, and his unexpected but fulfilling turn towards civic leadership. Read more November 24, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Inika Jain As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Inika Jain. Read more November 22, 2021 Sizing Up Atlanta’s Efforts to Reduce Waste: Beril Toktay Weighs in on WABE News for National Recycling Day Beril Toktay, professor of operations management and director of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business, was recently interviewed by WABE News about recycling infrastructure issues and solutions in the U.S. Read more November 15, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Ranks Top Five in Sustainability Education Eight Years in a Row The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business ranks No. 4 in the U.S. and No. 19 in the world for sustainability education, according to the 19th annual Better World MBA ranking by Corporate Knights. Read more November 09, 2021 Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Hosts Launch Event to Inaugurate Drawdown Georgia Business Compact On October 21, 2021, the Drawdown Georgia Business Compact officially launched with a virtual panel discussion hosted by the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business (“Center”). Read more October 27, 2021 Facilitating Student Growth through Community Impact Ravi Subramanian, professor of operations management, partnered with Garry Harris, president of the Center for Sustainable Communities (CSC), for class projects in Business Decisions for Sustainability and Shared Value. Students had the opportunity to provide recommendations for a revitalization project that aims to foster community, increase prosperity, and promote health and well-being in a Virginia community. Read more October 27, 2021 Student Projects Unlock Sustainability Value HDDC, an organization dedicated to developing, renovating, and restoring affordable residential and commercial property within Atlanta's Old Fourth Ward, was so impressed with recommendations from an undergraduate team in the Sustainable Business Consulting Practicum that it signed on for a second project with an MBA team. Both projects focused on the Center's social performance & human rights core theme to help support equitable civil rights movement. Read more October 27, 2021 Students Develop Recommendations for E-bike Rideshare Program in Clarkston A team of two Graduate Sustainability Fellows (Sol Haroon and Victoria Skinner) and an Undergraduate Sustainability Ambassador (Mark Leggiero) partnered with a Georgia Tech Vertically Integrated Project (VIP) to examine the transportation gap in Clarkston. Read more October 18, 2021 Beril Toktay Receives Sustainability Champion Award from the Global Electronics Council On October 7, 2021, the Global Electronics Council (GEC) honored Beril Toktay, Brady Family Chair in Management at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, with a Sustainability Champion Award for her work through the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business (“Center”), where she is faculty director. Read more October 18, 2021 Marcell Sandoval, Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Alum, Named Forbes 1000 Entrepreneur Georgia Tech Scheller MBA alum Marcelo Sandoval has turned his dream of starting a clean technology company into a reality with his company, ProsumerGrid. Read more October 11, 2021 Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business launches the Drawdown Georgia Business Compact The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is launching the Drawdown Georgia Business Compact, an inclusive and collaborative initiative focused on galvanizing climate action in Georgia. Read more September 29, 2021 Making the Business Case for Sustainability: Students Pitch Carbon- and Cost-Saving Measures in the 2021 Carbon Reduction Challenge In Georgia Tech’s 2021 Carbon Reduction Challenge, organized by the Global Change Program and the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Scheller College of Business, students stepped up to propose ways to reduce carbon emissions and costs at major organizations. Read more September 24, 2021 Sustainability Faculty Publish Op-Eds on Social Impact, Supplier Transparency, and Minimum Wage This summer, faculty from the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business published op-eds on sustainability-related research in Harvard Business Review and Just Style. The three faculty are affiliates of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Read more September 24, 2021 “Take, Make, Waste” No More: How Katherine Huded (MBA ’20) Is Realizing Her Vision for a Circular Economy Our alumna profile spotlights Katherine Huded, director of Circular Ventures at The Recycling Partnership. Katherine shares how she made the transition from communications maven to circular economy expert and offers advice for those looking to get “a seat at the table” when companies are setting their sustainability strategy. Read more September 08, 2021 Three Scheller College of Business Graduates of the Inclusive Leaders Academy Reflect on Their Experience Three Scheller College of Business staff members recently graduated from the Inclusive Leaders Academy, a professional leadership and legacy development program for managers at Georgia Tech. Read more August 13, 2021 Basak Kalkanci Receives NSF Award for Sustainable Supply Chains Research On April 5, 2021, the National Science Foundation announced that it had awarded a grant to the Georgia Tech Research Corporation, with Scheller College of Business Associate Professor of Operations Management Basak Kalkanci as the sole principal investigator, for a project, “Sustainable Supply Chains via Data-Driven Risk Analytics.” Read more August 03, 2021 Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business contributes “beyond carbon” perspectives to National Academy publication Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business contributes “beyond carbon” perspectives to National Academy publication Read more June 29, 2021 “We Need a Bigger Tent”: A Sustainability Spotlight on Alumnus Naveed Ahmad Katherine Huded (MBA ’18), director of Circular Ventures at The Recycling Partnership, interviewed Naveed Ahmad (MBA ’19). In the following conversation between the two former classmates, topics include Naveed’s career journey, why utility companies are ground zero for making all companies more sustainable, and how we can create momentum for positive change by “building a bigger tent.” Read more June 22, 2021 Scheller College of Business Faculty Receive MSOM Society Recognition for Sustainability Research On June 8, 2021, Scheller College of Business faculty Morvarid Rahmani, Karthik Ramachandran, and Beril Toktay, and their former PhD student collaborators Priyank Arora and Can Zhang, were recognized for their sustainability-related research at the 2021 Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences Manufacturing and Service Operations Management Virtual Conference. Read more June 11, 2021 Highlights from the Spring 2021 Business, Environment, and Society Speaker Series The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business launched the Business, Environment, and Society Speaker Series in 2016 to develop and strengthen the network of sustainability-minded students, faculty, staff, practitioners, and community members. Hosting the series is just one way in which the Center serves as a connector and catalyst across diverse stakeholders in an effort to create more sustainable communities. Through informative talks, lively Q&As, and illuminating interviews, the series opens the lines of communication between current and future changemakers. Read more May 10, 2021 Brigit Joyce Awarded 2021 Vivian Nora Lukens Memorial Scholarship The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business and the Scheller College of Business have selected Brigit Joyce as the 2021 recipient of the Vivian Nora Lukens Memorial Scholarship. Read more April 23, 2021 Blacks in Business, Net Impact, and Women in Business: Scheller MBA Clubs Discuss Allyship The Blacks in Business, Net Impact, and Women in Business MBA clubs at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business cohosted an event on allyship where groups discussed submitted student experiences. Read more April 21, 2021 Creating the Sustainable Business Leaders of Tomorrow: Meet the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is determined to make a difference in corporate sustainability through curriculum, partnerships, and outreach. Read more April 01, 2021 Ready to Take the Carbon Reduction Challenge?: Sustainability Advocates Share Tips for Making an Impact Beginning in 2017, students from Georgia Tech and other colleges and universities have competed in a summer-long competition known as the Carbon Reduction Challenge. Over ten weeks, as students work over the summer as interns or in co-op positions, they research and design projects that have the potential to reduce carbon dioxide emissions while saving money for their employers. As sustainability ambassadors, Challenge participants have the opportunity to pitch projects to managers and key decision-makers at their organizations. Some projects have been adopted and implemented by the organizations, resulting in millions of pounds of avoided CO2 emissions and hundreds of thousands of dollars in avoided energy costs for partnering organizations. Read more March 29, 2021 A Career and Life Led with a Servant’s Heart: An Interview with John Wells (IM ’84) This interview is the next installment in our series of profiles on sustainability leaders among Georgia Tech alumni. Michael Oxman, managing director of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business speaks with John Wells (IM ’84), longtime president and CEO of Interface Americas, where he worked alongside Founder and Chairman Ray C. Anderson (IE ’56, Honorary Ph.D. ’11) in building a company that became an exemplar of “doing well by doing good.” John shares his career trajectory, memories of working at Interface at a time of incredible change, and best practices for embedding sustainability in a company. John currently leads the CEO and Leadership Practice as a Partner at The Goodwin Group. Read more February 11, 2021 Highlights from the Summer and Fall 2020 Business, Environment, and Society Speaker Series The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business launched the Business, Environment, and Society Speaker Series in 2016 to develop and strengthen the network of sustainability-minded students, faculty, staff, practitioners, and community members. Hosting the series is just one way in which the Center serves as a connector and catalyst across diverse stakeholders in an effort to create more sustainable communities. Through informative talks, lively Q&As, and illuminating interviews, the series opens the lines of communication between current and future changemakers. Read more December 18, 2020 Forging a Career at the Intersection of Sustainability and Energy: A Conversation with Microsoft’s Mark Jacobson (MBA ’18) Michael Oxman speaks with Mark Jacobson (MBA ’18), an energy project manager for Microsoft’s data center and energy sustainability team. Mark shares his career trajectory, thoughts on the intersection of sustainability and the energy sector, and advice for students looking to incorporate their passion for sustainability into their careers. Read more December 18, 2020 The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Announces 2020-21 Scheller College Graduate Sustainability Fellows and Undergraduate Ambassadors The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is delighted to announce the 2020-21 Graduate Sustainability Fellows and Undergraduate Sustainability Ambassadors. This year, 25 graduate and 14 undergraduate students will deepen their engagement in sustainability by working on projects and participating in activities related to sustainable business. Read more November 16, 2020 Pathway to Carbon Neutrality Unveiled during Drawdown Georgia Launch Week What will it take for the state of Georgia to reach a point of carbon neutrality? How can the state work towards this goal in an equitable way? These questions were at the heart of a research component of the Drawdown Georgia initiative. Read more November 10, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller College Ranks Top Five in Sustainability Education Six Years in a Row Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Ranks No. 4 in the 2020 Better World MBA Ranking by Corporate Knights. Read more October 27, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Forms Diversity & Inclusion Council The Georgia Tech Scheller College Diversity & Inclusion Council has been created to foster organizational change and create equal access to opportunities for educational and professional growth and advancement. Read more October 21, 2020 Equity Implications of Drawdown Georgia’s Carbon Solutions Presented at Just Energy Summit From September 28 to October 2, the Just Energy Summit gave individuals working against environmental injustices the opportunity to gather virtually to discuss equity as it relates to clean energy and climate action. One panel, “Drawdown Georgia—Future Carbon Solutions and Their Equity Implications,” featured Michael Oxman, Marilyn Brown, and Garry Harris. Read more September 30, 2020 Morvarid Rahmani and Karthik Ramachandran Publish Op-ed on How Nonprofits Can Maximize Impact With Limited Budgets In an op-ed published on the NonProfit PRO website, Center-affiliated faculty Morvarid Rahmani and Karthik Ramachandran share their research that suggests nonprofits with limited budgets can create greater social impact by focusing on a few key services—instead of trying to do “everything for everyone.” Read more September 21, 2020 Covid-19’s Teachable Moment: Students Identify Sustainable Workplace Practices Worth Continuing in Carbon Reduction Challenge Since 2017, students from Georgia Tech and other colleges and universities in the state have competed in the Carbon Reduction Challenge (“Challenge”), a program that supports summer interns and co-op participants in becoming sustainability ambassadors in their workplaces. This summer, the Challenge was restructured around Covid-19, with participants developing projects on behaviors and operations that have changed at their organizations during the pandemic. Read more August 12, 2020 From Allies to Change Agents: Scheller MBA Alumnae Answer Four Key Questions in the Fight for Sustainable Racial Equity The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business (“Center”) recently held a panel discussion around the role individuals and communities have in the fight for racial equity and social justice. The conversation centered around ways individuals can elevate their levels of engagement—in conversation, in protest, and in advocacy. Read more July 06, 2020 Five Ways Higher Education Institutions Can Fight the Effects of Racial Inequality Learn how higher ed can fight the impacts of racial inequality from Dr. Tiffany Hughes-Troutman, licensed psychologist and Director of CARE at Georgia Tech. Read more June 29, 2020 Alumna Spotlight: An Interview with Chris Hagler (MSM ’96) In this interview, Michael Oxman, managing director of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business (“Center”) speaks with Chris Hagler, Southeast practice leader of climate change and sustainability services at Ernst & Young (EY). Chris shares her career trajectory; thoughts on leadership across environmental, social, and governance (ESG) criteria; and advice for students looking to incorporate their passion for sustainability into their careers. Read more June 22, 2020 MBA Alumni Panel Addresses Integrating Personal Values in Professional Lives A panel of Scheller College of Business alumni hosted by the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business revealed how employees can be true advocates for sustainability and allies to social justice causes in their professional lives. Read more June 18, 2020 Highlights from the Spring 2020 Business, Environment, and Society Speaker Series During the Spring 2020 semester, The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business hosted several Business, Environment, and Society Speaker Series. The speakers present on topics connected to research in and practice of sustainable business. Read more June 15, 2020 Blais Hickey, Poets&Quants 2020 MBA to Watch, Continues her Mission for Sustainability at Nike An advocate for healthy lifestyles, responsible business practices, and collaborative problem-solving, Scheller Full-time MBA alumna Blais Hickey has also been named a 2020 MBA to Watch by Poets&Quants. Read more May 22, 2020 Scheller College MBA Student Bahar Gunes Brings Energy Sector Know-How to Drawdown Georgia Bahar Gunes, a first-year student in the Scheller College of Business’s Full-time MBA Program, discusses how she has contributed to Georgia Tech’s work with Drawdown Georgia, a project that aims to identify the most promising carbon emission reduction opportunities for our state. Read more May 01, 2020 Michael Oxman and Beril Toktay Contribute to Georgia’s First-Ever Framework for Carbon Reduction An article published on April 22 by the Ivan Allen College for Liberal Arts highlights the contributions of Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business leadership in a collaborative effort to find solutions to reduce Georgia’s carbon emissions by 2030. Read more April 16, 2020 New Website Highlights Georgia Tech’s Response to COVID-19 To highlight all the innovative ways our faculty, students and staff are responding to the pandemic, Georgia Tech has launched a new resource site to centralize news related to COVID-19. Read more April 02, 2020 Alumna Spotlight: An Interview with Marybeth Bucklen (MBA ’19) A recent MBA graduate carries her passion for sustainability from Scheller College to her position with the City of Brookhaven. Read more April 02, 2020 Past I2S Winner, Judge Jasmine Burton: Why Sometimes the Problem You’re Solving Isn’t the Right Problem Jasmine Burton, a Georgia Tech graduate, product designer, social activist, and founder is passionate about a problem fairly novel to most: access to safely managed sanitation. She's also a new judge in the upcoming Ideas to Serve (I2S) competition. Read more March 31, 2020 Jenny Choi Announced as Inaugural Vivian Nora Lukens Memorial Scholarship Recipient The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business and the Scheller College of Business have selected Jenny Choi as the first recipient of the Vivian Nora Lukens Memorial Scholarship. The scholarship was established to support undergraduate students who are pursuing the Certificate in Sustainable Business. Read more March 06, 2020 Scheller College MBA Students Win First Prize in Race and Case Competition A team of four Scheller College of Business MBA students won first place ($5000) in the annual Race and Case competition in Denver, Colorado. The unique event, hosted by University of Denver’s Daniels College of Business from February 28-29, 2020, combined a premier business ethics-based case competition with an alpine ski challenge. Read more March 06, 2020 Sustainable Operations Workshop Supports Early-Career Scholars Seventy scholars representing nearly 40 different institutions from around the world gathered for the sixth annual Early-Career Sustainable Operations Workshop from February 21-23, 2020. The event brought together scholars and industry speakers for presentations covering a broad range of sustainability topics. Read more March 05, 2020 Global Leadership for a Better World: President Cabrera Speaks at Scheller College of Business on the Globalization of Trade and Business At a packed crowd of Scheller College of Business and Georgia Tech students, faculty and staff, President Ángel Cabrera delivered a compelling talk about the globalization of business and leadership. Read more February 28, 2020 Climate Change’s Impact on Business at Heart of MBA Student Summit From February 21-22, 2020, five MBA students from the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business attended ClimateCAP at the University of Virginia’s Darden School of Business. The annual global MBA summit on climate, capital, and business prepares students to respond to the financial risks, investment opportunities, and leadership challenges associated with climate change. Read more February 25, 2020 Scheller College a “Transforming” School According to Positive Impact Rating In the Positive Impact Rating (PIR), Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is identified as one of the world’s top “transforming” schools. The World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, announced the PIR results on January 22, 2020. The new rating, conducted by students and for students, assesses business schools on the basis of their positive impact. Read more February 24, 2020 Scheller College of Business Faculty Beril Toktay Addresses e-Tailing Waste in TechTarget Article Scheller College of Business professor of Operations Management, Brady Family Chair and faculty director of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Beril Toktay was recently quoted on Amazon's carbon footprint in e-Tailing, Read more January 16, 2020 Summer Abroad Program Offers Students Opportunities to Work with Non-profits for Positive Change The Leadership for Social Good (LSG) Study Abroad program is taking applications from students across disciplines for its summer semester abroad. The program provides an opportunity to make a positive impact globally by working with non-profit partner organizations in Budapest, Hungary, Prague, Czech Republic, and Vienna, Austria. Read more December 20, 2019 Poets & Quants Ranks Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Undergraduate Program Top 20 in the U.S. Scheller College of Business’ Undergraduate Program has been named #14 Best Undergraduate Business Program in the U.S. and #5 Best Undergraduate Business Program at a public university in the U.S. by Poets and Quants in their just-released 2020 rankings for undergraduate programs. Read more December 19, 2019 The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Announces 2019-20 Scheller College Graduate Sustainability Fellows and Undergraduate Ambassadors The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is delighted to announce the 2019-20 Graduate Sustainability Fellows and Undergraduate Sustainability Ambassadors. This year, 11 graduate and seven undergraduate students will deepen their engagement in sustainability by working on projects and participating in activities related to sustainable business. Read more November 12, 2019 Scheller College of Business Named a Top Three U.S. School in the Corporate Knights 2019 Better World MBA Ranking Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business continues to be recognized as a leader in sustainability education in business. In the 17th annual Better World MBA Ranking, released by Corporate Knights on November 8, 2019, Scheller College is ranked #3 in the United States and #9 globally Read more November 01, 2019 The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Participates in Inaugural Sustainability Showcase Faculty, staff, and students affiliated with the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Scheller College of Business contributed to Georgia Tech’s inaugural Sustainability Showcase. Over 150 members of the Georgia Tech community shared their current work in sustainability research and education. Read more October 18, 2019 MBA Students Learn How to Incorporate Sustainability in Careers The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business and the Net Impact – MBA Chapter co-hosted the sixth annual panel on sustainability in careers on October 9. Speakers shared insights with nearly two dozen MBA students eager to hear how their careers could be aligned with their environmental and social values. Read more October 03, 2019 Scheller College Faculty Discuss Sustainable Business in Climate Symposium The faculty affiliated with the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business participated in the Global Climate Action Symposium. The event brought together engineers, government delegates, business and policy experts, activists, and students from around the world. It was jointly sponsored by Georgia Tech and six European consulates during European Climate Diplomacy Week. Read more September 27, 2019 University Global Compact's (UGC) Inaugural Meeting Highlighting UN’s Sustainable Development Goals Includes President Cabrera, Other Georgia Tech Participants Six universities and higher education organizations including Georgia Tech participated in the University Global Compact’s (UGC) inaugural “17-Rooms-U” at Rutgers University. Georgia Tech President Dr. Ángel Cabrera and Beril Toktay, Scheller professor among attendees. Read more September 25, 2019 Basak Kalkanci Named 2019 ARCS Emerging Sustainability Scholar The Alliance for Corporate Sustainability (ARCS), an organization advancing rigorous academic research on corporate sustainability issues, has selected Basak Kalkanci for its Emerging Sustainability Scholar Award. Read more September 16, 2019 Georgia Tech Approves Certificate in Sustainable Business Beginning in Fall 2019, Georgia Tech undergraduates from any major will have the opportunity to pursue a Certificate in Sustainable Business. Read more September 06, 2019 “Time-Traveling” MBA Students Discuss Progress Solving Global Sustainability Issues Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business entered a time machine on August 20, 2019—and came out ten years in the future. During the “Reports from the Future” symposium, MBA students, pretending it was the year 2029, spoke about the progress society has made addressing global issues related to environmental and social sustainability. Read more August 29, 2019 Students Champion Workplace Sustainability in the Third Annual Carbon Reduction Challenge How do you stop millions of pounds of heat-trapping Carbon Dioxide from ever being emitted? In Georgia Tech’s Summer 2019 Carbon Reduction Challenge, student interns used their ingenuity to identify opportunities for scalable carbon reduction projects at a wide variety of partnering organizations. Read more August 14, 2019 Students Apply Sustainable Business Concepts to Uplift Challenged Community What does it take to transform a community from “striving” to “thriving”? Ask undergraduate students in Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business who recently learned about creating sustainable communities through an innovative project. Read more August 13, 2019 Scheller Faculty Featured in Recent Media Op-Eds Two recent sustainability-focused op-eds featured Scheller faculty in Corporate Knights and Environmental Leader. Read more July 31, 2019 Beril Toktay Selected as Finalist for 2019 Atlanta E3 Awards On July 29, 2019, Scheller College of Business Professor Beril Toktay was selected as a finalist for the 2019 Atlanta E3 Awards in the “Impact” category. The Atlanta E3 Awards, which are presented by the Metro Atlanta Chamber (MAC), celebrate the companies, organizations and people whose work innovates at the intersection of sustainability and commerce. Read more July 11, 2019 Karie Davis-Nozemack Pens Op-ed on How Paying Taxes Is a Sustainability Issue In an op-ed published in Corporate Knights on July 3, Karie Davis-Nozemack argues that paying taxes should be considered a sustainability issue. Around the globe, corporations (just like many individuals) try to avoid paying taxes. In the United States alone, 60 profitable Fortune 500 companies earned ... Read more June 03, 2019 Sudheer Chava Discusses Capital Cost Reductions Introduced by Socially Responsible Investing Sudheer Chava Discusses Capital Cost Reductions Introduced by Socially Responsible Investing Read more May 16, 2019 Sustainability Experts Tell Future Change Agents That Flexibility Is Key for Careers The speakers discussed sustainability developments within their organizations and offered career advice based on their own trajectories. Panelists stressed the value of acquiring work experience in core business functions, especially ... Read more May 15, 2019 Michael Oxman Discusses Sustainable Business at Savannah Council on World Affairs After working in the energy sector in places such as the Soviet Union, Kazakhstan, Papua New Guinea, and the Philippines, Oxman witnessed firsthand how social and environmental risks affect companies and their bottom lines. Read more April 30, 2019 Steven Murchison Named as 2019 Best and Brightest MBA by Poets & Quants Steven Murchison (MBA 2019) was recently selected as Poets & Quants' “2019 Best and Brightest MBAs” for 2019. Murchison, who was recently awarded the Dean’s Award for the Full-time MBA Student Excellence Award at the 2019 Honor’s Day ceremony, is a second year student in the Full-time MBA program. Read more April 26, 2019 Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Celebrates Earth Day With Environmental Competition at Delta Air Lines “We’re delighted to be a part of helping Delta generate business value from these environmental initiatives,” said Beril Toktay, Faculty Director of the Center. Center corporate sustainability experts helped five teams of employee finalists from three different countries ... Read more April 25, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Nancy Wheless, Evening MBA As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 16, 2019 Jeffrey Hales Discusses SASB’s Position in the Evolution of Accounting Toward ESG Issues In a recent episode of Jumpstart, a podcast from Bloomberg Financial Accounting, Dr. Jeffrey Hales, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Accounting Professor and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Chair, discusses the SASB’s global mission... Read more April 11, 2019 2019 MBA International Practicum Travels to South Africa The slate of destinations for the 2019 MBA International Practicum featured an exciting new option for students: South Africa. The South Africa course was co-sponsored by the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business (“Center”), giving Full-time and Evening MBA students an opportunity to exercise their sustainable business skills with hands-on projects. The International Practicum is one of the MBA Program’s most popular electives, designed to facilitate a semester-long client project between international organizations and MBA student consultants. Read more April 10, 2019 MBA Students Meet Civil Rights Icon Andrew Young in South Africa “Meeting Andrew Young at the southern tip of Africa was truly surreal—a once-in-a-lifetime experience,” said Peter Nguyen, an MBA Sustainability Fellow at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business... Read more April 08, 2019 Countdown to Commencement Alex Luczkow As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 08, 2019 Steven Murchison Wins Scheller College Dean’s Award for Full-time MBA Student Excellence “When you have experience that can help other people, it’s your duty and responsibility to put that skill to use—to share that information and experience with other people to help them achieve their career goals,” said Steven Murchison, this year’s recipient of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Dean’s Award for Full-time MBA Student Excellence. Read more April 05, 2019 Durability Vs. Recyclability: Dueling Goals in Making Electronics More Sustainable The falling cost of solar power has led to a boom in recent years, with more and more photovoltaic panels popping up on rooftops and backyard solar farms around the world. But what happens to all of those solar panels in a couple of decades when they reach the end of their useful life? And what about electronic devices with even shorter life spans? Read more April 03, 2019 Ideas to Serve Competition – ‘Know What You Don’t Know’ Applicants for the 2019 Ideas to Serve (I2S) competition are exploring and addressing a number of issues both locally and globally from plastic waste reduction, disaster response in low-income communities, food security, global health, prison reform, education, and more! Read more March 22, 2019 Record Attendance at Fifth Annual Early-Career Sustainable Operations Workshop More than 50 scholars from the United States, Asia, and Europe convened at the University of San Diego for the Fifth Annual Early-Career Sustainable Operations Workshop earlier this month. Read more March 07, 2019 Scheller College Alumna Chris Hagler Talks Investor Focus on Sustainability Scheller Alumna Chris Hagler recently spoke at the College about investor focus on sustainability. Read more February 28, 2019 Artists Unite to Tell Story of Sustainable Business In February, The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business opened its doors for an event unlike any other hosted in the five years since its founding. Read more February 21, 2019 Beril Toktay Weighs Fast Furniture Effect on Environment Beril Toktay talks fast furniture and the trend's effects on the environment. Read more February 18, 2019 Scheller College Professor Jeffrey Hales Continues Dialogue on Sustainability Reporting Standards Scheller College's Jeffrey Hale says capital markets are "hungry" for better information on sustainability performance. Read more January 31, 2019 MBA Students Choose Scheller College to Study Sustainability Why three students chose to pursue their MBA at Scheller College of Business Read more January 15, 2019 Scheller College Dual-degree Student Hopes To Change the World Engineer Victoria Dean left a burgeoning career to pursue a joint Scheller College of Business MBA and Ph.D. program with Georgia Tech's College of Engineering. Read more January 04, 2019 Scheller College Receives Gold Recognition Through the Georgia Tech Work Green Program Scheller College is the first and largest entity on the Georgia Tech campus to be awarded the highest level of certification through the Work Green program. Read more December 12, 2018 Carbon Reduction Challenge Wins Sustainability Education Awards in Global Competition Georgia Tech’s Carbon Reduction Challenge, a program that helps students design and implement large-scale projects to save energy, received two first-place awards at the 2018 Reimagine Education Conference & Awards in San Francisco. Read more December 12, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Carolanne Lott Carolanne chose to pursue her Evening MBA at Scheller because of its “great reputation for STEM-focused MBAs, especially for those with a STEM background like me.” Read more December 11, 2018 Scheller College of Business Professor Jeffrey Hales Rings Opening Bell at NASDAQ and London Stock Exchange Scheller Professor and Chair of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Jeffrey Hales recently rang the opening bell at NASDAQ and the London Stock Exchange as part of a worldwide tour to celebrate the launch of 77 sustainability accounting standards for global markets. Read more December 06, 2018 Alumni Spotlight: David Hogan David Hogan, a Georgia Tech alumnus who majored in Management and minored in Engineering & Management through the Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program, says he “will always cherish the accessibility and willingness of faculty to teach us how to learn…and how to be accountable for the education we received.” In 2017, he received his MBA from the University of Cambridge Judge Business School. David says his educational journey has led him to some of his strongest connections— a network that has provided him with invaluable business input over the years. Read more December 04, 2018 Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Reflects on the Past, Present, and Future of Atlanta Sustainability Michael Oxman and L. Beril Toktay of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business highlight achievements in Atlanta’s sustainability efforts. Read more November 12, 2018 Scheller College of Business Rises to #2 in the U.S. and #6 Globally in the Corporate Knights 2018 Better World MBA Ranking The Better World MBA Ranking is recognized as the only major ranking that evaluates accredited MBA programs’ commitment to equipping graduates with the skills necessary to solve pressing business and social challenges in order to succeed in a rapidly evolving global business climate. The ranking evaluates curriculum, research, and centers related to sustainability, as well as faculty diversity, across the top 100 schools on the Financial Times’ Global MBA Ranking. Read more October 18, 2018 Two Dozen Industry Leaders Attend the Center’s Inaugural Advisory Board Meeting Two dozen business leaders joined leaders of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business (“Center”) at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, Center-affiliated faculty, and Scheller College students at the inaugural Center Advisory Board meeting on October 5, 2018. Read more October 16, 2018 MBA Students Learn How to Engage in Sustainability in Any Role The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business (“Center”) at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business and the Net Impact at Scheller College MBA Chapter co-hosted the fifth annual “Using Sustainability to Succeed” panel on October 16. Read more October 10, 2018 Scheller Professor Beril Toktay Reflects on Diversity and GT ADVANCE Program Scheller College of Business Professor Beril Toktay was featured in the fall 2018 issue of the Georgia Tech Alumni Magazine to talk about her experiences in academia and her commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion through her work as a Georgia Tech ADVANCE professor. Read more October 01, 2018 Professor Atalay Atasu Rethinks Sustainability in Harvard Business Review The passage of the EU’s Circular Economy Package in April placed many European companies in the face of mandates to reuse products they create for as long as possible. Read more October 01, 2018 Study Reveals “Greenwashing” Does Not Appear to be Prevalent Academic researchers at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business recently studied whether companies that make positive discretionary environmental announcements in the press improve their overall environmental performance more than companies that do not. Read more September 26, 2018 The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Celebrates Fifth Anniversary This year, the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business (“Center”) celebrates its fifth anniversary. It launched in 2013 as the Center for Business Strategies for Sustainability. In January 2015, after receiving a $5 million commitment from the Ray C. Anderson Foundation, the Center was renamed for Anderson, a sustainable business visionary and Georgia Tech alumnus (IE 1956, Honorary PhD 2011). Read more August 30, 2018 Carbon Reduction Challenge Awards Top Prize to Chick-fil-A Intern A Georgia Tech undergraduate student teamed up with Chick-fil-A staff over the summer to reduce millions of pounds of heat-trapping greenhouse gases while delivering significant cost savings. Read more July 05, 2018 Rethinking Sustainability in Light of the EU’s New Circular Economy Policy Scheller College of Business Professor Atalay Atasu was recently published in Harvard Business Review for his research around successful business practices in a circular economy. Read more June 27, 2018 Designing New Climate Change Solutions with Inspiration that is Millions of Years Old Designing New Climate Change Solutions with Inspiration that is Millions of Years Old Read more June 21, 2018 Center Announces Delta as Inaugural Participant in Corporate Sustainability Program Executive Council The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business (“Center”) has announced that Delta Air Lines will be the first participant in the Center’s Corporate Sustainability Program (CSP) Executive Council. Through the CSP, the Center seeks to collaborate with leading companies that share a vision for developing sustainability leaders and shaping a new economy that offers a more sustainable future for all. Read more June 13, 2018 Atalay Atasu Named Sustainable Operations Departmental Editor of the Production and Operations Management Journal It is with great pleasure that we announce Atalay Atasu has been named the new Departmental Editor of the Sustainable Operations division of the Production and Operations Management Journal. The Production and Operations Management Journal is one of the premier journals in Operations Management and the flagship journal of the Production and Operations Management Society. Read more May 25, 2018 Professors Basak Kalkanci and Ravi Subramanian Publish on Toxic Materials Emissions Reporting The annual federal report on toxic material emissions from industrial sites across the country gains widespread media attention and serves as a reminder of the potential environmental impacts of industrial activities. But a team of researchers at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business wondered whether federal regulators can persuade companies to abandon toxic chemicals by simply highlighting that information. Read more May 24, 2018 Michael Oxman selected to Institute for Georgia Environmental Leadership Class of 2018 Read more May 10, 2018 John R. McIntyre Releases New Book on CSR and Climate Change Implications for Multinational Enterprises Scheller College’s John R. McIntyre has released a new book, CSR and Climate Change Implications for Multinational Enterprises. The book describes, explains, and predicts how multinational firms will rise to the multiple challenges posed by global climate issues and the organizational and behavioral various responses of the international corporate community. Read more May 03, 2018 Panel Prepares Undergraduates for Sustainability in Careers For undergraduate business students curious about how an interest in sustainability can lead to a future career, the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business (“Center”) joined Center-affiliated faculty Ravi Subramanian in presenting “Sustainability in your Career.” The April 12th panel, held in Subramanian’s class, MGT 4803: Business Decisions for Sustainability and Shared Value, hosted George Halow (Global Investment Efficiency Manager, Ford Motor Company), Michael Oxman (Center Managing Director), and Steve Tochilin (General Manager of Environmental Sustainability, Delta Air Lines). Read more May 02, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Grace Walton Meet Evening MBA student Grace Walton. Prior to the Evening MBA Program, Grace worked at Caraustar as the Manager of Direct Materials; however, as a result of obtaining her MBA, she has become a Sourcing Manager at Georgia-Pacific within their Innovation unit. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 27, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Adam Zenker Meet Full-time MBA student Adam Zenker. In his spare time, Adam plays hockey and is involved in multiple philanthropy projects, including serving as the Student Executive Leader for the MBA program’s Pro Bono Consulting Practicum. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 27, 2018 Summit Engages MBA Students in Business Implications of Climate Change The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business (“Center”) recently sent four students to ClimateCAP: The Global MBA Summit on Climate, Capital, & Business. Read more April 25, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Jason Alcedo Meet Full-time MBA student Jason Alcedo. He describes himself as a “pragmatic idealist” who believes in the corporate responsibility to all stakeholders – not just shareholders. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 19, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Jacqueline Smyth Meet Evening MBA student Jacqueline Smyth. She enjoys traveling, reading, knitting, and learning, and has visited 25 countries—seven of them twice. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 03, 2018 Cobb & Toktay: 2018 Innovation in Co-curricular Education Award For their groundbreaking accomplishments with the Internship and Co-op Carbon Reduction Challenge, Kim Cobb and Beril Toktay have been selected as the recipients of the 2018 Innovation in Co-curricular Education Award, administered by the Center for Teaching and Learning. Read more March 29, 2018 Scheller College’s Sustainable Business Practicums Bridge MBA and Undergraduate Programs As part of the Scheller College of Business’ Fall 2017 MBA Sustainable Business Practicum, the US Green Building Council (USGBC) worked with a student team on building out the business case for Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification in the Southeast United States. Read more March 27, 2018 Meet the 2017-2018 Scheller College Sustainability Fellows The Center is pleased to announce the MBA students selected as 2017-2018 Scheller College Sustainability Fellows. Read more March 16, 2018 Conference Supports Early-Career Faculty for High-Impact Research The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business (“Center”) hosted the 2018 Early-Career Sustainable Operations Workshop, now in its fourth year, from March 2-4. Read more February 28, 2018 Scheller College of Business engages in New United Nations Regional Centre of Expertise (RCE) The United Nations University Institute for the Advanced Study of Sustainability (UNU-IAS) announced a new regional sustainability network, RCE Greater Atlanta, one of six Regional Centres of Expertise on Education for Sustainable Development. Read more February 28, 2018 Sustainable Business Research Brief Series Connects the Dots Between Academic Papers and Busy Practitioners The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business ("Center") launched a publication series to help academics influence the way that business is conducted today. Read more December 04, 2017 Scheller College Among World’s Best Business Schools in Sustainability Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is 4th in the U.S. and 10th globally in the 2017 Better World MBA rankings. Read more November 15, 2017 Center Supports National Net Impact Conference in Atlanta On October 25th, the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business (“Center”) at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business and the Scheller MBA Net Impact Chapter co-hosted the fourth annual “Your Business Career and Sustainability” panel. Business leaders from Delta Air Lines, NextEra Energy, SunTrust Bank, and Steelcase Inc. provided guidance for MBA students wishing to contribute to environmental and social goals within the business sector. Read more October 31, 2017 Career Panel Prepares Students to Become Sustainable Business Champions On October 25th, the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business (“Center”) at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business and the Scheller MBA Net Impact Chapter co-hosted the fourth annual “Your Business Career and Sustainability” panel. Business leaders from Delta Air Lines, NextEra Energy, SunTrust Bank, and Steelcase Inc. provided guidance for MBA students wishing to contribute to environmental and social goals within the business sector. Read more October 02, 2017 Research Helps Humanitarian Aid Organization Deliver What Matters Most Researchers from the Georgia Institute of Technology have identified how medical surplus items can be distributed more efficiently by humanitarian organizations. Two recent articles, “Effective Medical Surplus Recovery” and “Truthful Mechanisms for Medical Surplus Product Allocation,” identify operations methodology that enables recipients to request and receive items that best match their needs. Read more August 31, 2017 Affiliated Faculty Member Prof. Rodriguez Vila Published in Harvard Business Review Prof. Rodriguez's research on "Competing on Social Purpose" was published in Harvard Business Review's Online Sept- Oct issue. Read more August 25, 2017 Scheller Interns at SunTrust Win Carbon Reduction Challenge A team composed of two Scheller College of Business and four Industrial and Systems Engineering students who interned this summer at SunTrust won the top prize in the inaugural Internship and Co-op Carbon Reduction Challenge. Read more July 07, 2017 Scheller College Professor L. Beril Toktay Named Fellow by MSOM The Manufacturing and Service Operations Management Society (MSOM) has elected Professor L. Beril Toktay as a Distinguished Fellow of the organization. "Election as an MSOM Fellow should be considered a rare distinction," according to the society's web site. Read more June 22, 2017 Sustainability-Driven Innovation: Creating Feed from Waste Gives Grubbly Farms Something to Crow About During Spring 2017, students from our Center-led sustainability practicum helped Grubbly Farms develop a marketing strategy for one of the key customer segments. Read more June 06, 2017 Georgia Tech Professors Take the Carbon Reduction Challenge from Class to Co-op Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is looking to creating the next leaders to take on carbon reduction, thanks to an innovative new co-curricular initiative launched in partnership with the College of Sciences. Starting in May 2017, Professors Kim Cobb (College of Sciences) and Beril Toktay have joined forces to run the Internship and Co-op Carbon Challenge. Read more May 12, 2017 Tech Team Wins Toyota Next Generation Mobility Challenge A team of Georgia Tech students including Ivan Allen College digital media student Sally Xia won the Toyota Next Generation Mobility Challenge last week. Read more May 11, 2017 Center-Affiliated Faculty Jeffrey Hales Appointed to SASB Standards Board The SASB Foundation Board of Directors announces the appointment of the SASB Standards Board, responsible for the oversight of SASB standards. Center-affiliated faculty Jeffrey Hales was one of nine members appointed. Read more May 05, 2017 Countdown to Commencement – Farzeen Tejani Meet Farzeen Tejani. Farzeen is from Atlanta and earned her bachelor’s degree in architecture with an architecture history certificate from Georgia Tech. Read more May 03, 2017 Countdown to Commencement – Elizabeth Schultz Meet Elizabeth Schultz. Elizabeth is from Marietta, Georgia and earned her bachelor’s degree in industrial design from Georgia Tech. Read more April 10, 2017 Turning Passion Into Action at Net Impact Local Conference On March 4th, 2017, the Scheller College of Business hosted Net Impact Local, a one-day conference organized by the Georgia Tech MBA Chapter of the national organization. Read more September 15, 2016 Scheller College Ph.D. Student is Helping Promote Sustainability Efforts for Corporations and Consumers Dionne Nickerson, a Ph.D. marketing candidate in the Scheller College of Business, researches the way companies and consumers can promote positive social change. Read more July 19, 2016 Michael Oxman Named Managing Director of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Michael Oxman joins the Scheller College of Business as the new managing director of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business. Read more June 19, 2016 Green Guy Media Podcast: Guest Host John Lanier talks with Faculty Director Beril Tokay Green Guy Media Podcast: Guest Host John Lanier talks with Faculty Director Beril Tokay Read more June 01, 2016 Faculty Publications Spotlight The book, Environmentally Responsible Supply Chains, edited by Associate Professor of Operations Management and Center-affiliated faculty member Atalay Atasu, was published. Read more April 12, 2016 Ideas to Serve Competition Honors Business Concepts Aiming to Better the World Bac-Off, a long lasting antibacterial solution for textiles that targets reducing hospital acquired infections, and Memora Health, a personalized healthcare solution, were the top teams in the 2016 Ideas to Serve (I2S) Competition at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more April 06, 2016 Emerging Dynamics of Sustainability to be Published in April 2016 CIBER executive director John R. McIntyre edits new volume in Edward Edgar Publishing Ltd's 'New Horizons in International Business series'. Read more October 13, 2015 How to Plan a Business Career in Sustainability More than at any other time in history, humanity is collectively aware of its impact on the planet. And a increasing number of business school students want to get involved in this important work. Read more May 28, 2015 Scheller College Organizes Radio Show on Sustainability Howard Connell, managing director of Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business, recently assembled a cross-section of sustainability experts for a panel discussion on Atlanta’s Business Radio X. Read more May 05, 2015 Scheller College Draws Leading Sustainability Operations Researchers to Event With support from the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business, Operations Management Associate Professor Atalay Atasu recently held a workshop that convened 45 of the leading sustainability operations researchers from the world at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more April 24, 2015 Faculty Profile: Rodriguez-Vila Studies Sustainability as Marketing Opportunity While working as global vice president of integrated marketing communications for Coca-Cola, Omar Rodriguez-Vila spent several years living in China in preparation for the company’s sponsorship of the 2008 Beijing Summer Olympics. Read more March 30, 2015 Toothbrush Technology for Developmentally Disabled Wins 2015 Ideas to Serve Competition Toothbrush technology that would empower people with intellectual and developmental disabilities to care for their teeth more effectively and independently won the 2015 Ideas to Serve (I2S) Competition March 27 at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more March 26, 2015 Dare to Care: Discover Business Concepts that Could Improve World in Ideas to Serve Competition Showcase March 27 Seventeen teams will present business concepts that could help create a better world in the final round of the Ideas to Serve Competition (I2S) on Friday March 27 at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more January 30, 2015 $5 Million Commitment to Georgia Tech from the Ray C. Anderson Foundation Names Scheller College’s Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business The Georgia Institute of Technology’s Scheller College of Business has received a $5 million commitment from the Ray C. Anderson Foundation to rename the Center for Business Strategies for Sustainability. To honor this commitment and Ray Anderson’s legacy, the Center will now be known as the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business. Read more December 05, 2014 Alumni Profile: Tech Provided Great Environment for Brian Edgerton to Explore Sustainability Before enrolling in Georgia Tech’s MBA Program, Brian Edgerton had long been interested in sustainability. “But when I came to Tech, I had the opportunity to embrace it,” he says. Read more October 09, 2014 Scheller Ranked 8th in Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Sustainable MBA Programs Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is ranked 8th in Corporate Knights magazine’s Global 100 Sustainable MBA rankings for our success at integrating sustainability into the school experience. Read more August 08, 2014 Faculty Profile: Operations Management Professor Atalay Atasu Examines Environmental Issues Operations Management Professor Atalay Atasu’s interest in how companies manage balancing environmental and manufacturing concerns began during his PhD studies at INSEAD. Read more May 27, 2014 Scheller Wins Sustainable Business Education Prize Georgia Tech’s Center for Business Strategies for Sustainability (CBSS) was recently named one of the grand prize winners for the Dr. Alfred N. and Lynn Manos Page Prize for Sustainability Issues in Business Curricula. Read more May 15, 2014 Scheller Event Highlights Need for Partnerships to Create Sustainable Future During a recent panel discussion on sustainability at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, Novelis President and CEO Phil Martens recalled an alarming conversation he had with a climatologist a decade ago. They had discussed the repercussions if society didn’t reduce carbon emissions, ranging from the melting of polar ice caps and jet-stream shifts to the contamination of the air, soil, and water. Read more April 08, 2014 Top Leaders in Their Fields to Discuss Sustainability at Scheller’s May 1 Event Major corporate executives and other thought leaders on the environment will converge at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business at 4 p.m. on Thursday, May 1, to discuss “The Sustainability Advantage: The Art and Science of Creating Sustainable Value.” Read more January 27, 2014 MBA Student Profile: Sophia Bromfield Wants to Lead Greener Approaches to Construction Design Sophia Bromfield believes that environmentally friendly design is going to be a factor that influences every company's real estate decisions in the future. Read more August 01, 2013 Howard Connell Named Director of Center on Business Strategies for Sustainability Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Center on Business Strategies for Sustainability recently named Howard Connell professor of the practice of sustainable business. Read more June 24, 2013 Scheller College’s Net Impact Chapter Awarded Gold Standing Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Net Impact chapter recently received the prestigious Gold standing designation. Read more May 08, 2013 Sustainability Center Receives Grant from Kendeda Fund Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ new Center on Business Strategies for Sustainability recently received a $300,000 grant from the Kendeda Fund. This follows a $750,000, three-year grant received earlier this year from the Ray C. Anderson Foundation to start the Center. Read more April 04, 2013 Faculty Profile: Beril Toktay a Pioneer in Sustainability Research As a young girl growing up in Turkey, Beril Toktay accepted water and air pollution as a fact of life. “It wasn’t until I went abroad that I saw how much better it could be,” says the professor of operations management and holder of the Brady Family Chair at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more February 19, 2013 Scheller College Wins Grant to Start Center on Business Strategies for Sustainability Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is establishing the Center on Business Strategies for Sustainability, thanks to a three-year, $750,000 grant recently awarded by the Ray C. Anderson Foundation. Read more More Upcoming Events Jun 08 1:00 pm-2:00 pm Business Analytics Graduate Certificate Info Session Join us for an information session about the online Business Analytics Certificate at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures