By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Campus Shuttle More from this Section The Office of University Counsel Our Powerful Network Lifetime of Impact Now Needs You Community Engagement Facts, Figures and Rankings Brand University Ombuds Vision & Mission Campus Store Consumer Information Help & Contacts Social Media News Work at Syracuse Partnerships Leadership Plan Your Visit Campus Map History Campus Shuttle Campus shuttle schedules and routes, shuttle escorts, and additional transportation options. Please visit the Centro website for the latest Centro service related changes in Onondaga County and downloadable PDF route maps. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has issued an order imposing a mask requirement for all travelers on U.S. public transportation systems. Effective February 2, 2021, the order states that individuals are required to wear masks when traveling on public transportation and at public transportation hubs, including any fixed facility at which passengers are picked up or dropped off. We strongly encourage all passengers to comply with this order from the CDC while riding on Centro buses and trolleys. Summer 2022 Shuttle Schedules Begin Monday, May 16 No service on Monday, May 30, or Monday, July 4 ’Cuse Trolley Routes Route Schedule Information Notes Route South Campus to College Place Loop Schedule Information College Place to S. Campus - Daily S. Campus to College Place - Daily Notes SUID Required to Board. South Campus Loop Map Route Blue Loop Schedule Information Weekdays Only Notes SUID Required to Board Blue Loop Map Route Orange Loop Schedule Information Weekdays Only Notes SUID Required to Board Orange Loop Map Route Warehouse Loop Schedule Information Weekdays Only Notes SUID Required to Board Warehouse Loop Map Centro Campus Routes Route Schedule Information Notes Route Manley Centro #SU44 Schedule Information Skytop to College Place - Weekdays Only College Place to Skytop - Weekdays Only Notes SUID Required to Board. Manley Loop Map Route E. Genesee / Westcott Centro #SU343 Schedule Information Weekdays Only Notes SUID Required to Board. E. Genesee / Westcott Map Revised Academic Year Shuttle Schedules Beginning 9/13/21 Temporary Centro Service Reductions Effective September 13 in order to ensure continued service on the heavily used South Campus shuttle service, some late-night shuttle services with low ridership will need to be temporarily suspended after 8 p.m. These include the Euclid Shuttle, the Warehouse Shuttle, and the Late Night Campus Shuttle. Passengers needing transportation along these routes should contact the on-demand Parking and Transportation Services Safety Escort Shuttle, which runs from 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. The safety shuttle service can be requested by calling 315.443.RIDE (7433). ’Cuse Trolley Routes Route Schedule Information Notes Route Manley Loop Schedule Information Monday-Friday Notes SUID Required to Board. Manley Loop Map Route Blue Loop Schedule Information Monday-Friday Notes SUID Required to Board Blue Loop Map Route Orange Loop Schedule Information Monday-Friday Notes SUID Required to Board Orange Loop Map Route South Campus to College Place Loop Schedule Information College Place to S. Campus - Sunday to Saturday S. Campus to College Place - Sunday to Saturday Notes SUID Required to Board. Route Warehouse Loop Schedule Information Sunday - Saturday (every day) Notes SUID Required to Board Route Euclid Loop Schedule Information Thursday - Saturday Notes SUID Required to Board Euclid Loop Map Centro Campus Routes Route Schedule Information Notes Route South Campus Centro #SU344 Schedule Information South Campus to College Place College Place to South Campus Notes #SU344 Map Route Manley Centro #SU44 Schedule Information Skytop to College Place College Place to Skytop Notes #SU44 Map Route Connective Corridor Centro #SU443 Schedule Information South Campus to Warehouse Warehouse to South Campus Notes #SU443 Map Route Main Campus Centro #SU43 Schedule Information South Campus to College Place to West Campus West Campus to College Place to South Campus Notes #SU43 Map Route East Campus Centro #SU243 Schedule Information East Campus Notes Route East Genesee St. - Westcott St. Centro #SU343 Schedule Information College Place to E. Genesee St. to Westcott St. Weekdays Route Thurber Street Centro #SU345 Schedule Information Ainsley Drive to College Place Weekdays Route Destiny Centro #SU45 Schedule Information No service effective 9/18/21 Centro City Routes Please refer to the Centro website for additional schedule information. Route Schedule Information Notes Route Nob Hill Schedules Schedule Information Centro Sy240 (Downtown to Nob Hill) Centro Sy240 (Nob Hill to Downtown) Notes Centro service is $1.00 if riding outside of the free fare zone. Within the free fare zone, SUID required to board. Centro Sy240 Map Route Drumlins/Top Supermarket Schedules Schedule Information Centro Sy340 (Drumlins to Downtown) Centro Sy340 (Downtown to Drumlins) Notes Centro service is $1.00 if riding outside of the free fare zone. Within the free fare zone, SUID required to board. Note all 340C routes operate only when classes are in session during the academic year Centro Sy340 Map Route Westcott Street Schedules Schedule Information Centro Sy530 (Dewitt to Downtown) Centro Sy530 (Downtown to Dewitt) Notes Centro service is $1.00 if riding outside of the free fare zone. Within the free fare zone, SUID required to board. Centro Sy530 Map Route Downtown Centro Hub Schedules Schedule Information Centro Sy40 (College Place at Life Science to Centro Hub) Centro Sy40 (Centro Hub to College Place) Notes $1.00 fare Centro Sy40 Map Safety Escort Services Walking Escorts The Department of Public Safety provides walking escorts by individuals wearing bright orange vest/jacket to students, faculty, and staff to and from on and near off campus locations. When they are not providing an escort, they will be strategically located along Euclid Avenue, as well as Walnut Park and Marshall Street. The Walking Escort program operates daily from 10:30 p.m. to 3:30 a.m. throughout the academic year. Shuttle Escorts As of Thursday, July 1, Parking and Transportation Services safety escort shuttle will operate nightly from 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. throughout the year. Safety escort shuttles can be requested by calling 315.443.7433 (RIDE). Commuter Options Zipcar (car share) Park and Ride Service More options Additional Transportation Resources Amtrack Greyhound Trailways of New York Syracuse Hancock International Airport Taxi services Syracuse University's comprehensive and efficient shuttle service can take you to locations throughout campus, while safety escorts are available on-call for night-time activities (or any time you’d like added security). And the Connective Corridor makes it easy to get from campus to many of the city’s top destinations. Changes to the schedule will occur during academic breaks. Featured Stories Connective Corridor makes Downtown More Accessible The Connective Corridor strengthens the bond between the City of Syracuse and the University, makes downtown more accessible and has positively influenced downtown development. Related Pages Campus Map Here you’ll find comprehensive campus maps to academic buildings, residence halls, parking, directions, and more. Food and Lodging With hundreds of restaurants and hotels in the Greater Syracuse area, you're sure to find food and lodging which suits your tastes and budget. Syracuse Hancock International Airport Book your flight to Syracuse through Hancock. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy