Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Criminal Justice (BA) – Scholar’s Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Criminal Justice In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Admission Requirements An application is required. Minimum major and overall GPA of 3.2 for Admission. Applicant must declare this specific track with the aid of an advisor A grade of "B" (3.0) or better in ENC 1101 and ENC 1102 is required. Students whose major and overall GPA falls below 3.2 out of a possible 4.0 will not be permitted to continue in the track and will be transferred to the Criminal Justice BA/BS degree. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students should complete the General Education Program before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. The courses designated in section 1 below may be taken at a Florida College System institution, and should usually be completed in the first 60 hours. Students must complete three (3) Criminal Justice graduate courses (5XXX), each with a grade of "B" (3.0) or better for a total of nine (9) credit hours; courses are selected under the direction of an advisor. Students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better in each core course, and have an average overall GPA of 2.0 or better in courses used toward the restricted electives. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Chief Jailer Commanding Officer Homicide Squad Correctional Officer Sergeant Correctional Supervisor Corrections Sergeant Criminal Justice Professor Criminology Professor Detective Lieutenant Detective Supervisor Meteorological Aide Penology Professor Police Lieutenant Polygraph Examiner Prison Guard Supervisor Traffic Lieutenant Traffic Sergeant Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Criminal Justice (BA) - Scholar's Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements An application is required. Minimum major and overall GPA of 3.2 for Admission. Applicant must declare this specific track with the aid of an advisor A grade of "B" (3.0) or better in ENC 1101 and ENC 1102 is required. Students whose major and overall GPA falls below 3.2 out of a possible 4.0 will not be permitted to continue in the track and will be transferred to the Criminal Justice BA/BS degree. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students should complete the General Education Program before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. The courses designated in section 1 below may be taken at a Florida College System institution, and should usually be completed in the first 60 hours. Students must complete three (3) Criminal Justice graduate courses (5XXX), each with a grade of "B" (3.0) or better for a total of nine (9) credit hours; courses are selected under the direction of an advisor. Students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better in each core course, and have an average overall GPA of 2.0 or better in courses used toward the restricted electives. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 33 Total Credits Complete all of the following See "Common Prerequisites" in the Transfer and Transitions Services section for more information. Complete the following: CJE3001 - Careers in Criminal Justice (4) CCJ3014 - Crime in America (3) CCJ3024 - Criminal Justice System (3) CCJ4701 - Research Methods in Criminal Justice (4) CJL3510 - Prosecution and Adjudication (3) CJC3010 - Corrections and Penology (3) CJE4014 - Police and Society (3) CCJ4678 - Race, Ethnicity, Equity, and (In)justice (3) CCJ4746 - Data Analysis for Criminal Justice (4) CCJ4054 - Capstone: Criminal Justice Ethics (3) Restricted Electives 27 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: Scholars' Track - Students must complete three (3) Criminal Justice graduate courses (5XXX), each with a grade of "B" (3.0) or better for a total of nine (9) credit hours; courses are selected under the direction of an advisor. Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: 9 additional semester hours of upper division criminal justice (CCJ, CJC, CJE, CJJ, CJL, CJT, DSC or SCC) undergraduate course work. Seniors may satisfy up to six hours of this requirement with internships and up to six hours with directed independent study; however, the combination of these non-class options shall not exceed nine hours. Program standards must be met to be eligible for either internships or independent study credit. Participation in Honors in the Major also recommended. Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: 9 additional semester hours of non-criminal justice supportive electives. These courses may vary from student to student depending upon individual needs or objectives, but included selected courses from public administration, sociology, statistics, and psychology. The supporting course requirements may also be met by using 9 hours from a completed minor in another program approved by the department. Grand Total Credits: 60 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida