Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research DEI Initiatives Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People Program Contacts Faculty Mollie Anderson Frank Andrasik Karen Linville Baker J. Gayle Beck Kristoffer S. Berlin Jeffrey S. Berman Cheryl Bowers Gina Caucci Robert Cohen Melloni N. Cook Thomas K. Fagan Randy G. Floyd Arthur C. Graesser Latasha R. Holden Kathryn H. Howell Xiangen Hu Stephanie Huette Sarah M. Irby Roger J. Kreuz Mark LeDoux Deranda Lester Brook A. Marcks Meghan McDevitt-Murphy Elizabeth B. Meisinger Andrew W. Meyers James G. Murphy Andrew M. Olney Philip I. Pavlik Jr. Leslie A. Robinson M. David Rudd Helen J. K. Sable Robert J. Seals Nicholas W. Simon James P. Whelan William H. Zachry Jia Wei Zhang Staff Staff Personnel Take Action Psychology Advanced Degrees Academic Advising & Resource Center (AARC) The Psychological Services Center Teaching Take-Out Facebook Home Department of Psychology People Beth Meisinger, Ph.D. Beth Meisinger, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Director of School MS/PhD Program Phone 901.678.3435 Email bmsinger@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2579 Office Psychology Building Room 360 Office Hours 12-3 Mon-Thurs, 3-5 Fri PRONOUNS: she/her/hers CV LIGER Lab Video Education Ph.D., University of Georgia M.A., University of Georgia B.A., University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill Research Interests Development of Oral and Silent Reading Fluency Assessment of Children with Reading Disabilities Literacy Interventions Representative Publications Dr. Meisinger's line of research focuses on the development of oral and silent reading skills in typically developing and at-risk readers. Many of her publications are co-authored with students (highlighted with *s below) which are products of student milestone projects (i.e., thesis or dissertation) and other studies coordinated through her research laboratory, the LIGER lab (Laboratory InvestiGating Elementary Readers). Her publications, related citations, and collaborators are evident on her Google Scholar Page. Several themes have emerged across this line of research. 1. Empirical Contributions to Reading Fluency Assessment. Much of the work conducted in the LIGER lab seeks to address the shortcomings of assessment practices or tools available to practitioners and researchers who are interested in text-level reading. *Taylor, C., Meisinger. E. B., & Floyd, R. G. (2016). Disentangling verbal instructions, experimental design, and sample characteristics: Results of curriculum-based measurement of reading research. School Psychology Review, 45, 53-72. Benjamin, R. G., Schwanenflugel, P. J., Meisinger, E. B., Groff, C., Kuhn, M., & Steiner, L. (2013). A spectrographically grounded scale for evaluating reading expressiveness. Reading Research Quarterly, 48, 105-133. *Price, K. W., Meisinger, E. B., *D’Mello, S., & Louwerse, M. M. (2012). Silent reading fluency using underlining: Evidence for an alternative method of assessment. Psychology in the Schools, 49, 606-618. Meisinger, E. B., Bloom, J. S., & Hynd, G. W. (2010). Reading fluency: Implications for the assessment of children with reading disabilities. Annals of Dyslexia, 60, 1-17. Meisinger, E. B., Bradley, B. A., Schwanenflugel, P. J., Kuhn, M., & Morris, R. (2009). Myth and reality of the word caller: The relationship between teacher nominations and prevalence among elementary school children. School Psychology Quarterly, 24, 147-159. 2. Understanding the Relation of Reading Fluency and Comprehension Across Modality. The relations between oral and silent reading fluency and comprehension, and the extent to which various reading subcomponents (e.g., phonological awareness, RAN, word reading skills, vocabulary) to contribute uniquely to these skills, has been examined in typically-developing and SLD readers. Meisinger, E. B., *Breazeale, A. M., & Davis, L. H. (in press). Word- and text-level reading difficulties in students with dyslexia. Learning Disabilities Quarterly. *Younger, R. L. & Meisinger, E. B., (in press). Group stability and reading profiles of students with dyslexia: A double deficit perspective. Learning Disabilities Quarterly. *Price, K. W., Meisinger, E. B., *D’Mello, S., & Louwerse, M. M. (2016). The contributions of oral and silent reading fluency to reading comprehension. Reading Psychology, 37, 167-201. Floyd, R. G., Meisinger, E. B., Gregg, N., Keith, T. Z. (2012). An explanation of reading comprehension across development using models from tell–Horn–Carroll theory: Support for integrative models of reading. Psychology in the Schools, 48, 725-743. Schwanenflugel, P.J., Meisinger, E. B., Wisenbaker, J., Kuhn, M., & Morris, R. (2006). Becoming a fluent and automatic reader in the early elementary school years. Reading Research Quarterly, 41, 469-522. 3. Identifying the Transition to Silent Reading. A series of studies has also focused on identifying when kids transition from oral to silent reading by focusing on the impact of modality on passage comprehension. *Robinson, M. F., Meisinger, E. B., & Joyner, R. E. (2019). The influence of oral versus silent reading on reading comprehension in students with reading disabilities. Learning Disability Quarterly, 42, 105–116. *Dickens, R. H., & Meisinger, E. B. (2017). Examining the effects of reading modality and passage genre on reading comprehension in middle school students. Reading Psychology, 38, 321-347. *Dickens, R. H., & Meisinger, E. B. (2016). Examining the effects of skill level and reading modality on reading comprehension. Reading Psychology, 37, 318-337. 4. Fluency-Oriented Reading Interventions. Dr. Meisinger also has long-standing interest in reading fluency-oriented interventions. Kuhn, M. R., Schwanenflugel, P J., Stahl, K. D., Meisinger, E. B., & Groff, C. (2013). Fluency-oriented reading instruction. In T. Rasinski & N. Padak (Eds.), Fluency to comprehension: Teaching practices that work (pp. 166-178). New York, NY: Guilford Press. Schwanenflugel, P. J., Kuhn, M. R., Morris, R. P., Morrow, L. M., Meisinger, E. B., Woo, D. G., & Quirk, M. (2009). Insights into fluency instruction: Short- and long-term effects of two reading programs. Literacy Research and Instruction, 48, 318-336. Kuhn, M., Schwanenflugel, P. J., Morris, R. D., Morrow, L. M., Woo, D., Meisinger, E. B., Sevcik, R., Bradley, B. A., & Stahl, S. A. (2006). Teaching children to become fluent and automatic readers. Journal of Literacy Research, 38, 357-387. Meisinger, E. B., Schwanenflugel, P. J., Bradley, B. A., & Stahl, S. A. (2004). Interaction quality during partner reading. Journal of Literacy Research, 36, 111-140. Courses Taught Dr. Meisinger has taught an array of courses at the graduate (G) and undergraduate (U) levels. These courses generally focus on evidenced-based approaches to promoting the academic success and mental health of children and adolescents. These courses include the following: PSYC 7805 Psychological Consultation (G) PSYC 7806 Interventions in School Psychology (G) PSYC 7807 Advanced Interventions in School Psychology: Academic Interventions (G) PSYC 7614b Consultation & Intervention Practicum in School Psychology (G) PSYC 8809: Advanced Practicum in School Psychology (G) PSYC 3103 Child Development (U) PSYC 3020 Research & Statistics II (U) Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.