COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Engineering Technology - Civil Engineering Technology, Major MajorEngineering Technology - Civil Engineering Technology All Programs College of Engineering Engineering Technology A Bachelor of Science in engineering technology (BSET) from Wichita State will give you knowledge and practical skills in engineering and technology fundamentals, engineering principles, instrumentation, mathematics, science and applied design. You’ll have access to top-notch labs and technology—plus, applied learning and research opportunities on and off campus. Learn how engineering technology - civil engineering technology is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Engineering, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Study effects of lightning at Environmental Test Lab Damage to wind turbines can easily cost hundreds of thousands in repairs, but a prototype developed at WSU's National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR) will help protect them from multiple lightning strikes. The prototype was developed by WSU engineer Billy Martin. In NIAR’s Environmental Test Lab, students can conduct direct effects of lighting, aircraft lighting transient analysis and lightning induced transient susceptibility. Curriculum The BSET—civil engineering technology concentration—combines engineering technology core curriculum with courses in civil and environmental engineering. The program will prepare you for high-paying, high-demand careers in the environmental, structural and renewable energy fields. You’ll also be well equipped to pursue an advanced engineering degree. View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—gives civil engineering students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to dream careers in diverse fields. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Industrial Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering (Minor) Engineering Technology - Engineering Technology Management Engineering Technology - Facilities Management Engineering Technology - Mechatronics Technology 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©