Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Meadows School of the Arts About SMU Meadows School of the Arts: Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form About SMU Meadows School of the Arts: A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact Us Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem Updating a bio already on the Meadows site Simply copy and paste (in Microsoft word) your current bio as it appears on the Meadows website and indicate your changes in red text. Add a “Teaching” category below your bio if you don’t already have one. You can either list the course numbers and titles, or, the topics you teach. See examples here and here. Creating a new bio Length and content A 250-500 word description (or thereabouts) works just fine. A “Teaching” section will be added below your bio. You can either list the topics you teach at Meadows (e.g., International Film History, American Film History …) or the course number and titles (e.g., FILM 1302 Contemporary Media Industries, FILM 2332 American Popular Film …). List only topics/courses you teach at Meadows. If your citations and milestones make for a long list, curate a shorter list for the Meadows bio and post the rest on your personal website; we can provide a link to your personal website where readers can go for in-depth reading. (Be sure to send us the URL for your personal website.) Contact info Your name Title at SMU Meadows SMU Email address SMU phone number SMU office room number Optional categories to add under your bio Education Publications, articles and essays Distinctions Professional Experience Research, grants and fellowships Links to your personal website or social media pages Photo guidelines Minimum size 1000 pixels wide, 1000 pixels tall (Hi-res) For multiple photos, either zip them in a single file and upload below, or use SMU box (formerly known as Locker) and send us a link. If the file size is too big and won’t let you upload in the form below, use SMU box. Download this Microsoft word template or this example: Stephanie Langin-Hooper. Please email meadows@smu.edu if you have any questions. Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search