Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Baylor Parent Engagement About Us Our Staff Get Connected Frequently Asked Questions Parent Portal Parent Giving Parent Events Parents in Prayer Care Packaging Parties Summer Send Off Parties Parents, Alumni and Friends Baylor Alumni Connect Baylor Alumni Groups Baylor Alumni Programs Prospective Parents Baylor Parent Engagement By connecting parents to resources, events and information related to the University, Baylor Parent Engagement ensures parents are actively involved in their student's Baylor Journey. Learn More Explore Get Involved Stay Informed Our goal is to to inform, connect and engage Baylor University parents. Our office exists to help you and your student navigate a successful and fruitful journey at Baylor. Learn More Philanthropic Opportunities Whether you are a current parent or simply wish to help the students of other parents, your gift supports the overall Baylor student experience - from scholarships to innovative campus programs and more. Learn More Attend Parent Events Connect with Baylor Parents near you and become a part of your student's world, no matter how far from campus you are. Learn More Attend Other Events From local and global events to affinity and professional networks, connect with the Baylor Family across the country. Learn More Meet Our Staff Learn More Baylor captivates all of us and pulls us into relationship. It is a privilege to build on that momentum and bring parents into a philanthropic relationship to support our mission, our students and ultimately our impact in the world for Christ. Molly Ferguson Senior Director of Parent Engagement As a former Baylor parent, I saw my daughters succeed as students here and eventually in their respective careers. I have a heart for all students to discover their life calling and to help that journey be as smooth as possible. Gail Offringa Director of Parent Engagement The Baylor Family is made up of unique and passionate individuals who have hearts for making a difference in the lives of students. It is a privilege to know their stories and connect their passions to the needs of the university! Katie Gomez Assistant Director of Development, Parent Engagement Baylor Parent Engagement (254) 710-8510 BaylorParents@baylor.edu About Us Back Our Staff Get Connected Frequently Asked Questions Parent Portal Parent Giving Parent Events Back Parents in Prayer Care Packaging Parties Summer Send Off Parties Parents, Alumni and Friends Back Baylor Alumni Connect Baylor Alumni Groups Baylor Alumni Programs Prospective Parents General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678