Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home About UH University Offices Enrollment Services Enrollment Services Office of Admissions Office of the University Registrar Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Office of Student Business Services Office of Integrated Enrollment Services Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQs Enrollment Services × Virtual appointments are now available. Learn more here. Summer 2022 Hours We are here for YOU – in several ways! Our representatives are available by email, phone, virtual (video) appointment, or by seeing us in person at the Welcome Center. Please visit our various departmental websites for more information! View Welcome Center Hours Monday- Thursday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Friday 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. View Call Center Hours Monday- Thursday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Friday 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. View Scheduled Virtual Appointments Hours Monday- Thursday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Friday 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Office of Admissions Scholarships and Financial Aid Office of the University Registrar Student Business Services From admission to graduation, our Enrollment Services staff is here to help you navigate your student experience at the University of Houston! The following offices make up the services that are here to ensure student success. Students are able to access these offices in three ways – through the Welcome Center, our Enrollment Services Call Center, and virtual appointments. Office of Admissions Office of the University Registrar (Registrar) Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Office of Student Business Services (Bursar) Office of Integrated Enrollment Services Enrollment Services Office of Communication & Marketing Welcome Center Many of your Enrollment Services are centrally located in the UH Welcome Center, at the corner of Martin Luther King Boulevard and University Drive. Guests can access the location via the campus map. Frequently visited services you can find there include: Freshman Admissions Scholarships and Financial Aid Cashier and Payment Services Course Enrollment & Records Enrollment Services Call Center You can reach a representative from the Office of Admissions, Office of the University Registrar, Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid or Student Business Services by calling our central Call Center at  (713)-743-1010. Summer 2022 Call Center Hours 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Thursday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday Virtual Appointments Prefer to video chat to get your questions answered? Representatives from the Office of Admissions, Office of the University Registrar, Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid, and Student Business Services are available to meet virtually with students during normal business hours. To learn more about scheduling an appointment and using the Navigate platform, visit here. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies