Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager For Faculty and Staff For Alumni For Students For Potential Students Biomed A-Z People Directory Department of Neurology Show/Hide Patient Care Education Medical Students Residency Fellowships Aging and Dementia Clinical Neurophysiology Clinical Neuropsychology Movement Disorders Multiple Sclerosis Neuro-Oncology Vascular Neurology Handbook & Other Resources Research Diversity Open Faculty Positions Zoom Meeting Aging and Dementia Fellowship Mission The Alzheimer’s Disease and Memory Disorders Center at Rhode Island Hospital is a clinical and research facility consisting of the Memory Disorders Clinic in the Department of Neurology and the Neuropsychology Program in the Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior. Our mission is tri-fold; (1) to provide state-of-the art care for the widest range of people in our community with Alzheimer’s and related dementia disorders; (2) to provide educational opportunities and training for future researchers in aging and dementia in both basic laboratory science and clinical neuroscience; and (3) to contribute to the advancement of translational research leading to more effective therapies for prevention and management of Alzheimer’s Disease and related disorders. To this end, the Aging and Dementia Research Fellowship was established to provide an integrated training program for post-graduate trainees in neurology, psychiatry, geriatric medicine, and neuropsychology who are planning to include clinical research in their careers. Fellowship Director: Brian R. Ott, MD Program Goals The Fellowship Program is weighted equally toward clinical care and clinical research. Based upon the American Academy of Neurology Geriatric Neurology Fellowship Core Curriculum, the Program is designed to provide a concise, yet comprehensive education to help practitioners understand and manage multiple facets of the wide range of age associated dementia disorders, as well as normal aging effects on the brain. The Aging and Dementia Fellowship provides a flexible training program focused on one of three basic tracks in the field of translational research (see below). The Fellow receives training in the essentials of study design and methodology to enable him or her to successfully prepare for an academic career in the field. The Fellow learns the basics of grant writing, project development, methods of data collection and management, statistical analysis of data, as well as clinical trial design and conduct, ethics in research, and effective presentation of results in both written and oral form. Overview The Alzheimer's Disease and Memory Disorders Center was established in 1989 to provide specialized consultation for people with a variety of memory disorders. Since then, it has become a regional referral center for southeastern New England serving patients from Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Island. Located at Rhode Island Hospital, the Center is able to combine the hospital's high quality neurological services and exceptional neuropsychologic and psychiatric services providing a very comprehensive diagnostic and treatment center for patients with memory disorders. Rhode Island has a large elderly population and Alzheimer's Disease is particularly common here affecting an estimated 25,000 men and women. As a result, many of the Center's services are tailored to this particular problem. For more details, see Aging and Dementia Subspecialty Program There is currently no cure for Alzheimer’s Disease and other degenerative memory disorders, but new treatments are available to help alleviate patients’ symptoms and slow their progression. Innovative research studies are ongoing and are continually shedding new light on these illnesses to find an effective means of preventing or significantly delaying disease onset. Towards this end, we have established a wide-ranging program of collaborative research. Our fellowship training focuses on three areas - (1) epidemiology and public health, (2) cognitive neuroscience and (3) neuropathology and laboratory research. The Fellow chooses a focus from one of these tracks. Length of training 1 - 2 years Prerequisites Successful completion of: 1. An ACGME-accredited Neurology residency, Psychiatry residency, or Geriatric Medicine fellowship, or 2. PhD from an APA-approved Clinical Psychology Graduate Program and Internship with specialty training in Neuropsychology Training schedule The training schedule is flexible and will be determined by joint agreement between the fellow and the program co-directors, according to the fellow’s specific background and research career goals. Under the primary mentorship of Drs. Ott and Tremont, the Program Directors, 50% of time will be spent at Rhode Island Hospital and will include clinical evaluations of patients being seen either in the Memory Clinic of the Rhode Island Hospital Department of Neurology on APC 7 or the Memory Clinic of the Rhode Island Hospital Division of Neuropsychology on POB 4. The other 50% of time will be spent doing work in the clinical trials program at the Rhode Island Hospital Alzheimer’s Disease & Memory Disorders Research Center on APC 7, as well as primary research at a Brown University campus affiliated program or laboratory in aging and dementia research in one of three tracks: (1) Epidemiology and Public Health; (2) Cognitive Neuroscience; (3) Neuropathology Laboratory Research in Neurodegeneration. Research time will be divided according to one of two schedules dependent upon the individually defined training program and research project goals. (a) 2.5 days per week at the Rhode Island Hospital Alzheimer’s Disease & Memory Disorders Center + 2.5 days per week at Brown campus or laboratory (b) 6 months continuously per year at the Rhode Island Hospital Alzheimer’s Disease & Memory Disorders Center + 6 months continuously per year at Brown campus or laboratory Elective experiences can be arranged as well with the Alpert Medical School Carney Institute for Brain Science, the University of Rhode Island Interdisciplinary Neuroscience Program, the Butler Hospital Memory and Aging Program, and the Providence Veterans Administration Hospital. The Fellowship Program offers three weeks per year of vacation time plus one week per year for conference time. Conferences Day Time Title Location Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday 8:30- 8:45 ADMDC research staff daily planning meeting ADMDC, RIH, APC 7 Tuesday 9:00-10:00 Mentorship meeting ADMDC, RIH, APC 7 Neuropsychology, POB 4 Wednesday 8:00- 9:30 Neurology Grand Rounds George Auditorium, RIH 12:00- 1:00 Neuroradiology Conference Neurology Department Conference Room, RIH, APC 5 1:00- 2:00 Memory Clinic consensus meeting (weeks 1-3) APC 1 Conference Room, RIH Monthly Aging and Dementia Research seminar (week 4) Neurology Department Conference Room, RIH, APC 5 3:30- 4:30 Clinical research staff meeting ADMDC, RIH, APC 7 Thursday 4:00 – 6:30 Neuropsychology Seminar Butler Hospital Friday TBA Research Methods Seminar Butler Hospital Various days Various times Brown Institute for Brain Science Lectures See weekly schedule:https://www.brown.edu/carney/node/1 Application Process Please submit a letter of interest, current curriculum vitae and three letters of reference (including one from the applicant's current/most recent Program Director) to: Physician applicants should direct their application to: Dr. Brian R. Ott Alzheimer’s Disease & Memory Disorders Center Rhode Island Hospital – APC 7 593 Eddy Street Providence, RI 02903 Phone: (401)444-5745 Fax: (401)444-6858 Email: [email protected] Neuropsychology applicants should direct their application to: Dr. Geoffrey Tremont The Neuropsychology Program Rhode Island Hospital 110 Lockwood Street Providence, RI 02903 Phone: (401)444-4500 Fax: (401)444-6643 Email: [email protected] Faculty Jerrold L. Boxerman, MD Professor of Diagnostic Imaging Medical Director, MRI Research Facility, Brown University Rhode Island Hospital Lori A. Daiello, PharmD, ScM, BCPP Associate Professor of Neurology Associate Professor of Health Services, Policy, and Practice Research Administrator of Clinical Research, The Alzheimer’s Disease and Memory Disorders Center Rhode Island Hospital Jennifer D. Davis, PhD Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Division of Neuropsychology Rhode Island Hospital Ivana Dalelle, MD, PhD Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Director, Neuropathology Service Rhode Island Hospital Suzanne DelaMonte, MD, MPH Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Professor of Neurosurgery Rhode Island Hospital John E. Donahue, MD Associate Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Associate Professor of Neurology Rhode Island Hospital Jonathan Drake, MD Assistant Professor of Neurology Associate Director, The Alzheimer’s Disease and Memory Disorders Center Rhode Island Hospital Elena K. Festa, PhD Lecturer, Department of Cognitive, Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Brown University Michael Friedman, MD Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and Neurology Neuropsychiatry Consultant, The Alzheimer’s Disease and Memory Disorders Center Rhode Island Hospital William C. Heindel, PhD Professor of Cognitive, Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Chair of Cognitive, Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Brown University Rich Jones, PhD, ScD Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Director, Quantitative Science Departments of Neurology and Psychiatry and Human Behavior Brown University Seth A. Margolis, PhD Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Division of Neuropsychology Rhode Island Hospital Brian R. Ott, MD Professor of Neurology Program Director, Aging and Dementia Fellowship Director, The Alzheimer’s Disease and Memory Disorders Center Rhode Island Hospital George Papandonatos, PhD Professor of Biostatistics (Research) Center for Biostatistics Brown University Geoffrey Tremont, PhD Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Program Co-Director, Aging and Dementia Fellowship Chief of Neuropsychology Rhode Island Hospital Thomas Trikalinos, MD Associate Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice Director, Center for Evidence Based Medicine Brown University Medical Students Residency Fellowships Aging and Dementia Clinical Neurophysiology Clinical Neuropsychology Movement Disorders Multiple Sclerosis Neuro-Oncology Vascular Neurology Handbook & Other Resources Brown Biology and Medicine Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty and Staff Potential Students Alumni Contact Us Contact Us 593 Eddy St APC Bldg, 5th floor Providence, RI 02903 Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Giving to Brown Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, RI 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn SnapChat