Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Title IX Online Reporting Title IX Online Reporting Fostering and maintaining an inclusive campus climate that is free of discrimination and harassment is central to Brown’s commitment to excellence. While the University is committed to fostering an inclusive and welcoming campus community, sexual harassment, sexual violence, and gender-discrimination can and do occur with varying levels of frequency and impact. Brown University encourages community members to report any acts they believe to be an incident of sexual harassment, sexual violence, or gender-based discrimination. The Sexual Violence & Gender-Harassment Incident Reporting Form was developed to capture these reports as a part of the intake process. Submitting this form does not compel a reporting party to submit a formal complaint. Individuals who want to submit a formal complaint must contact the Title IX Program Officer directly at [email protected]. When reporting an incident through this form, please note the following: This reporting form is for non-emergency incidents only. If this is an EMERGENCY situation, CALL 911 or contact the Department of Public Safety (DPS) at 401-863-4111. Your trust is important to us! We will make reasonable efforts to respect and protect your privacy. However, responding to violence and harassment may require collaboration across different areas of expertise on campus. The reporting party will be informed of the need to inform others of this report before any disclosure is made. Confidential resources are also available. A list of confidential and non-confidential resources is available through our “Reporting” link in the Policy. Brown University offers amnesty to Complainants, Respondents, reporting parties, and witnesses who disclose the personal ingestion of alcohol or other drugs in violation of the University Alcohol and Drug Policy and/or disclose a violation of COVID-19 requirements when making a report of Prohibited Conduct or participating in an investigation (See the Amnesty section within the policies). Reporting options for incidents of bias, harassment, or discrimination involving other protected classes (e.g., race, ethnicity, religious), is located on the Office of Institutional Equity and Inclusion website under “Incident Reporting.” Brown University takes reports made through this form seriously. Following the submission of the form, the reporting party can expect an outreach of support from the Title IX Office. If you have questions, please email [email protected]. Home Staff What is Title IX Policies Online Reporting Get Help Culture of Respect Annual Outcome Report Sexual Assault Campus Climate Survey Oversight and Advisory Board Campus Updates Print this Page Share this Page Title IX and Gender Equity Brown University Box 1988 305 Horace Mann House 47 George St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2026 [email protected] For Immediate Help Call the Sexual Assault Response Line at 401-863-6000 for confidential crisis support and information. “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination under any educational program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.” —Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 to the Higher Education Act of 1965 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory