Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Department of Orthopaedics Fellowship Programs Adult Reconstruction Fellowship Adult Reconstruction Fellowship The Brown University Comprehensive Adult Reconstruction Fellowship will provide advanced training in a broad range of primary and complex hip and knee revision reconstructive surgery as well as joint preservation techniques. Components of the program will include exposure to multiple surgeons and exposure techniques, direct patient care in offices and clinic, and the opportunity to participate in clinical and basic science research projects. The adult fellow will be credentialed as junior faculty and have independent OR and clinical privileges for cases that are appropriate for his/her level of expertise. The fellow will meet for constructive performance evaluation with the program director directly on a monthly basis. The fellow will be credentialed and function as a junior attending with senior staff/faculty back up. Moonlighting opportunities will be considered subject to approval by the program director and risk management. Faculty John Froehlich, MD Fellowship Director Professor of Orthopaedics (Clinical) John A. Froehlich, MD, MBA specializes in the areas of adult reconstructive surgery and sports medicine. He is fellowship trained and has been associated with Rhode Island Hospital and The Miriam Hospital for over 27 years. He is a graduate of Brown’s orthopedic residency program and did a fellowship in Boston before returning to Rhode Island. Dr. Froehlich is one of the founding members of University Orthopedics. He is a associate professor of orthopedics at the Warren Alpert/Brown University School of Medicine and is actively involved in resident education and training. Dr. Froehlich operates on patients of all ages suffering from a variety of shoulder, hip and knee ailments. Many of these procedures are done with the arthroscope or with newer minimally invasive techniques allowing for more rapid rehabilitation and return to a normal lifestyle. Included among the reconstructive procedures are: shoulder surgeries for rotator cuff disease, instability and impingement; knee surgeries for tissue repair, corrective procedures for arthritis, partial(resurfacing) and total knee replacements; and hip surgery including hip replacements. Dr. Froehlich is also involved in research on improving cartilage properties and the quality of joint replacements. After completing his MBA in 2009, Dr. Froehlich has dedicated considerable time and effort in the development of the Center of Excellence/ Total Joint Center at The Miriam Hospital. He is the program director and oversees the running of this state of the art program dedicated to providing our community with the highest quality care including the utmost attention to the needs of patients. Eric Cohen, MD Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics Co-Fellowship Director Dr. Cohen is a fellowship-trained Adult Reconstruction and Trauma Orthopedic Surgeon with a special focus on direct anterior total hip replacement, complex total hip replacements after trauma, partial knee replacements, total knee replacements and periprosthetic fractures and infections. Dr. Cohen attended the University of Tennessee-Chattanooga where he earned a Bachelor of Science in Biology graduating summa cum laude. He then attended medical school at the University of Tennessee where he graduated in the top of his class and was elected into AOA – the highest medical school honor granted. After medical school, he went to Brown University for his residency training in Orthopedics followed by two additional years of fellowship training in Orthopedic Trauma and Adult Reconstruction. Dr. Cohen has traveled throughout the United States and internationally to learn the latest surgical techniques and innovations in direct anterior total hip replacement and to volunteer his time and talent. He remains active in orthopedic research and his research interests include orthopedic trauma, anterior total hip replacement and modifiable risk factors prior to total joint replacement. Dr. Cohen has published several journal articles and book chapters on these topics and has lectured nationally. Derek R. Jenkins, MD Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics Assistant Professor of Orthopedics at the Alpert Medical School of Brown University and partner at University Orthopedics, Dr. Derek Jenkins is a Fellowship-Trained Orthopaedic Surgeon actively involved in teaching with the Adult Reconstruction Fellowship, Orthopaedics Residency, and Brown Medical Students. He is an expert in hip and knee joint preservation, partial and total joint replacement, and complex reconstructive revision surgeries. He has a particular interest in the utilization of advanced surgical techniques and technology including the direct anterior approach for hip replacements and the planning and performance of complex revision surgeries to fix failed joint replacements or severe deformities. An attending consultant in the Division of Adult Reconstruction, he operates at The Lifespan Total Joint Replacement Center at The Miriam Hospital and Rhode Island Hospital. He completed subspecialty fellowship training in Adult Reconstruction of the Hip and Knee at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, MN, following his Orthopedic Residency at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City. He is a graduate of Dartmouth Medical School as well as Dartmouth College, where he graduated with honors degrees in Engineering and Biology. Dr. Jenkins’ research interests incorporate Engineering and Medicine and he is currently the principal investigator in multiple Institutional Research Review Board Approved studies examining surgical and engineering outcomes and promising new advances in the clinical treatment of arthritis. He is a member of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, the American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons, reviews research articles for scholarly publications, and has been published in the Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery and presented research at Orthopaedic Society Meetings at the National and International levels. Valentin Antoci, MD Associate Professor of Orthopaedics Dr. Antoci is a Fellowship Trained Orthopaedic Surgeon with a focus in Adult Reconstruction, Hip and Knee Joint Replacement Surgery and a special interest in unicompartmental partial knee replacement, minimally invasive surgery, complex reconstructions, failed total joints, preservation techniques, and trauma. He is a graduate of the Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia and has extensive training in the field that involves the Harvard Combined Orthopaedic Surgery Program in Boston, the Harris Adult Reconstruction Fellowship Program with the Massachusetts General Hospital, and previously the Rothman Institute with the Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia. Dr. Antoci a frequent lecturer, both locally and nationally, has authored and coauthored over a dozen book chapters, many journal articles, and has over 100 presentations and talks at national and international meetings. He served as an associate editor for the Journal of Orthopaedic Trauma, a reviewer for Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research and BMC Infectious Diseases journals. Dr. Antoci is member of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgery, American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons, and the Orthopaedic Research Society. His work has resulted in several national and international awards including: the Infectious Diseases Society of America Edward H. Kass Fellowship, the International Society for Technology in Arthroplasty Ernesto De Santis Award, the Musculoskeletal Infection Society Jeannette Wilkins Award, the Eastern Orthopaedic Association Best Paper Award, and the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgery Poster Award. His current research interests focus upon joint implant design, tissue engineering, and biological interactions at the implant interface. In his free time he is an avid outdoor enthusiast and enjoys involvement in the community with local sports teams and activity groups. Thomas Barrett, MD Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics Dr. Barrett is a board certified Orthopaedic Surgeon whose clinical practice focuses on hip and knee replacement. He is also an instructor of Orthopedic Surgery at the Warren Alpert School of Medicine at Brown University. He is a Massachusetts native and went to Stony Brook University where he studied biochemistry. Dr. Barrett then went on to complete medical school at Albany Medical College. Following medical school, he remained at Albany Medical College to complete his orthopedic surgery residency. During residency Dr. Barrett was selected as an emerging leader by the American Orthopaedic Association. Following residency, Dr. Barrett completed an Adult Reconstruction fellowship at Baylor School of Medicine in Houston, TX. Dr. Barrett’s clinical interests include primary and revision hip and knee replacements. This includes complicated primary and conversion surgery for young patients treated in childhood with various surgical procedures. He excels at optimization of complicated patients preoperatively by working with the patients’ medical team. He utilizes the mini-posterior, direct anterior and lateral approaches for hip replacement. Dr. Barrett also performs Mako robotic assisted hip and knee replacements, as well as unicompartmental knee replacements, complex treatment for avascular necrosis and knee arthroscopy. Jonathan Schiller, MD Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics Dr. Schiller specializes in pediatric orthopaedics, specifically in the treatment of pediatric fracture care, limb deformity and lengthening, scoliosis, and adolescent and young adult hip problems. Dr. Schiller also specializes in hip arthroplasty. His current research interests include improving success of limb lengthening procedures, pediatric fracture management, scoliosis, and treatment of the adolescent and young adult hip problems. Dr. Schiller completed his orthopaedic residency training at Brown and the Dorothy and Bryant Edwards Fellowship in Pediatric Orthopaedics and Scoliosis at Texas Scottish Rite Hospital for Children in Dallas, TX. Roy Aaron, MD Professor of Orthopaedics Professor of Molecular Pharmacology, Physiology, and Biotechnology Roy Kenneth Aaron, MD, a specialist in arthritis and metabolic bone disease, is an attending orthopedic surgeon at Miriam Hospital. He is Director of Clinical Research for the department, and Director of the Orthopaedic Cell Biology Laboratory. He is also Director of the Brown / VA Center for Restorative and Regenerative Medicine. Dr. Aaron performs arthroscopic and other procedures for joint preservation in arthritis. Dr. Aaron spends a substantial amount of time in the laboratory and is doing research into osteoarthritis and cartilage transplantation using stem cells for joint resurfacing. He is interested in the use of biological alternatives to joint replacements for joint diseases. Richard Terek, MD Professor of Orthopaedics Richard M. Terek, MD, a specialist in adult reconstructive surgery and musculoskeletal oncology, is an attending orthopedic surgeon at the Miriam and Rhode Island Hospitals. Dr. Terek performs hip and knee replacements for patients with arthritis at the Total Joint Center at The Miriam Hospital. Dr. Terek is also an expert in the treatment of patients with osteogenic sarcoma, Ewing sarcoma, chondrosarcoma, soft-tissue sarcoma, metastatic cancer (cancers such as breast, prostate or lung which have spread to the bones), and benign bone and soft tissue tumors. These tumors occur in both children and adults. Treatment usually includes removing the tumor and limb or pelvis reconstruction is performed with combinations of artificial joints and bone grafts. Experts in pediatric, adult, and radiation oncology work with Dr. Terek at Rhode Island Hospital and Hasbro Children’s Hospital as part of a multidisciplinary team to cure patients. Dr. Terek is actively involved with teaching medical students at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University and is Director of the Orthopaedic Oncology Laboratory. Research Opportunities The Brown University Comprehensive Adult Reconstruction Fellowship offers opportunities to become involved in a wide variety of basic, clinical, and translational research. For maximum value, the research plan should be tightly integrated with the clinical program and be methodologically sound. Therefore, it should be discussed in advance with the fellowship director, research mentor, and fellowship research director. The research opportunities are broadly grouped into two formats. (1.) Our Total Joint Center is participating in the Function and Outcomes Research for Comparative Effectiveness in TJR (FORCE-TJR) program, a national joint replacement registry developed at UMass. The registry offers the opportunity to use the FORCE-TJR national database of over 40,000 joint replacements to answer research questions requiring large databases. (2.) Investigator-initiated research is ongoing into a wide variety of issues relative to arthritis, joint replacement, and associated health care delivery. A non-exclusive list of ongoing projects includes the creation of a risk-adjusted model of TJR outcomes, characterizing limb and bone blood flow in arthritis with advanced imaging, randomized controlled trial of a pulsed electromagnetic field for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee, systematic review of venous thromboembolism in joint replacement, effects of body composition in total knee arthroplasty, impact of non-English speaking on length of stay and other outcome variables, evaluation of trunnionosis as a failure modality of THA, and the impact of combined tranexamic acid administration on blood loss in TJA. Many collaborations and facilities have been established to extend the range of capabilities available and facilitate the ability to pose a broad range of research questions. Collaborations exist with the Dartmouth Biomedical Engineering Center: Implant Retrieval Lab, the Citigroup Biomedical Imaging Center and the Memorial Hospital for advanced joint imaging, the Center for Evidence-Based Medicine at the Brown School of Public Health, UMass FORCE-TJR, and RI Blue Cross. Among the facilities available are advanced bone, cartilage, and joint imaging with DEXA for bone density and body composition analysis, pQCT of the knee, contrast-enhanced MRI for measuring bone blood flow, articular cartilage imaging including T2 mapping and T1r imaging, biomotion studies with orthogonal fluoroscopy and virtual reality-based pathway geometry. For those interested in basic research, extensive biochemical, cell and molecular biological, and biomechanical laboratories are available. Instruction and consultation are available in experimental design, regulatory compliance, professional writing, data management, statistics, and presentation through the department’s Clinical/Translational Research Program. Program Details The adult fellow will directly participate in the mentoring and training of both residents and medical students. The fellow will lead the weekly indications conference and coordinate resident presentations at the monthly adult conference. He/She will also lead the journal club presentations and discussion. Fellowship Presentation Quality Care Through Research in the Total Joint Center Required educational conferences will include: Monthly resident adult reconstructive conference Adult Reconstruction Journal Club Attendance at Annual AAHKS and/or AAOS meeting Hands on cadaver course (once per year) Weekly indications conference with faculty Weekly Grand rounds Monthly QA at RIH and TMH Research meeting Monthly Reconstruction Clinic Fellow’s Perspective The Brown University Adult Reconstruction Fellowship is truly comprehensive, covering every aspect of primary and revision total hip and knee arthroplasty. There is a broad exposure to different surgical approaches and philosophies. The faculty utilizes direct anterior, anterolateral, and posterior approaches for total hip arthroplasty and there is exposure to gap balancing and measured resection for total knee arthroplasty. Faculty members are excited to include the fellow in all of their interesting and complex cases, which as a result provides an extraordinary revision hip and knee arthroplasty experience. Brown University is the tertiary referral center for Rhode Island and there is no shortage of revision cases, peri-prosthetic fractures and infection cases. The fellowship curriculum emphasizes the fellow’s learning experience and allows flexibility in rotation schedules to be apart of the unique cases, conduct influential research, and attend courses and conference. This fellowship is everything I am looking for in a fellowship, congenial faculty, broad exposure to different surgical approaches, complicated primary and revision arthroplasty, and the freedom and encouragement to grow and learn as a young arthroplasty surgeon. After this fellowship, I have no doubt that I will be comfortable handling any complex adult reconstruction problem. Miriam Total Joint Center The fellow will operate at Rhode Island Hospital and the Miriam Total Joints Center. The Miriam Total Joints Center specializes in adult hip and knee replacement surgery and recovery to optimize patient care and outcomes. Learn more: The Total Joint Center Why Brown Rhode Island Current Fellow William Walsh, MD Bio: Will grew up in New York and attended the University of Virginia for his undergraduate studies where he majored in Economics and graduated with Distinction. He received his medical degree at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx and went on to complete residency training in Orthopedic Surgery at Montefiore Medical Center and Jacobi Medical Center. During residency, his research focused on disparities in total joint replacement, patient-reported outcomes, and orthobiologics. In his free time, Will enjoys spending time with his wife and dog, cooking, golfing and traveling. Why Brown: I chose Brown for the depth and breadth of the fellowship training experience. The Adult Reconstruction fellow gets extensive experience in all major approaches to the hip including direct anterior, anterolateral and posterior. There are also multiple practice settings which allow for a diverse selection of cases and training environments. Rhode Island Hospital is the only Level 1 trauma center for the state and a tertiary care referral center which allows for extensive training in management of peri-prosthetic fracture and prosthetic joint infections. The total joint center at Miriam Hospital is a high-volume joint replacement center for primary and revision arthroplasty. In addition to these hospital systems, there is an outpatient surgery center and community hospital which provide additional exposure to same day surgery along with the total joint center. The scope of training and research opportunities along with dedicated faculty that enjoy teaching in all practice settings made Brown a great fit. I am confident that I will be prepared to provide comprehensive, high-quality care to my patients when entering practice. ALUMNI FELLOW CURRENT POSITION 2020-2021 Arthur Manoli, MD Duke University Hip Preservation Fellowship 2019-2020 Anand Patel, MD Summit Medical Group, Berkeley Heights New Jersey 2018-2019 Christopher Glezos, MD Sierra Pacific Orthopedics, Fresno, CA 2017-2018 Eric Cohen, MD Brown University, Providence, RI Application Process You must apply through SF Match, a third-party application service. The fellowship participates in the match set forth by the American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons. http://www.aahks.org/ The application form and all supporting documentation must be submitted by the end of October, approximately two years preceding the appointment date. The academic year begins in late July or early August. Exact deadlines for the current year can be found on the SF Match website. To apply to the program, visit the SF Match website. (https://www.sfmatch.org/Default.aspx) Applicants considered for an appointment will be invited to visit for a personal interview with the program director and selected faculty. Interviews will be held virtually on the afternoon of Friday, February 25, 2022, and the morning of Saturday, February 26, 2022. Contacts Audrey Bell Adult Reconstruction Fellowship Coordinator The Alpert Medical School of Brown University Phone: (401) 457-1567 Fax: (401) 457-2198 Email: [email protected] Home About Us News Faculty Residency Program Fellowship Programs Adult Reconstruction Foot and Ankle Hand Pediatrics Shoulder Elbow Spine Sports Medicine Trauma Research Laboratories Brown Medical Students MS4 Visiting Students Diversity and Inclusion Print this Page Share this Page The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift Quick Links University Orthopaedics