Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator About ORA Associate Vice President for Research Administration Clinical Research Contact Us Export Control Compliance Office Locations Post-Award Pre-Award Recharge/Service Centers Strategic Initiatives Who is my ORA Contact Person Forms and Rates All ORA Forms Forms by Category F&A Rates Fringe Benefit Rates Institutional Information Compliance Effort Reporting Export Control Compliance Financial Compliance University Research Foreign Influence Guidance Regulatory & Compliance Services Responses to COVID-19 Policies All ORA Policies Award Administration Clinical Research Export Control Compliance F&A Distribution Guidelines Proposal Preparation Recharge Center Policy Research Policies at UM Uniform Guidance Systems IBISResearch Clinical Research (Velos) Conflict of Interest (UDisclose) Effort Reporting (ECC) Greenphire ClinCard Human Subjects (eProst/IRB7) Research Reporting (RRS) Workday Quick Links Agency Links All About Workday Announcements Education and Training Research Road Map ORA Intranet Site ORA Mailboxes Reports and Data Share a Comment Uask FAQs About ORA Forms and Rates Compliance Policies Systems Quick Links Search About ORA Associate Vice President for Research Administration Clinical Research Contact Us Export Control Compliance Office Locations Post-Award Pre-Award Recharge/Service Centers Strategic Initiatives Who is my ORA Contact Person Forms and Rates All ORA Forms Forms by Category F&A Rates Fringe Benefit Rates Institutional Information Compliance Effort Reporting Export Control Compliance Financial Compliance University Research Foreign Influence Guidance Regulatory & Compliance Services Responses to COVID-19 Policies All ORA Policies Award Administration Clinical Research Export Control Compliance F&A Distribution Guidelines Proposal Preparation Recharge Center Policy Research Policies at UM Uniform Guidance Systems IBISResearch Clinical Research (Velos) Conflict of Interest (UDisclose) Effort Reporting (ECC) Greenphire ClinCard Human Subjects (eProst/IRB7) Research Reporting (RRS) Workday Quick Links Agency Links All About Workday Announcements Education and Training Research Road Map ORA Intranet Site ORA Mailboxes Reports and Data Share a Comment Uask FAQs OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Workspace Resources NIH Policies Submitting to ORA PI Transfer From/To UM About ORA Forms and Rates Compliance Policies Systems Quick Links Home About ORA Pre-Award Preparing Proposal Submitting to ORA AAA Submitting to ORA Please select your submission type below to view where, what and when to submit: Advance Account Request The Advance Account is submitted through IBISResearch to the Specialist at ORA. It is submitted from the Funding Proposal Workspace of the project you are requesting the Advance Account for. Use the Send Email activity in IBISResearch and attach the completed, signed form and sponsor documentation if available. Include the following When Where Advance Account Request Form Sponsor documentation, if available DRAFT agreement, if applicable Upon identification of need IBISResearch system Agreements (UM Not Receiving Funds) Agreements which do not involve UM receiving funds from an external entity, and their associated amendments. Collaboration Agreement Include the following When Where Note Draft Agreement Scope of Work Collaborator’s contact information Upon receipt of Agreement draft mra@med.miami.edu Also referred to as a Memorandum of Understandings and follows the same process. Confidentiality Disclosure Agreement (CDA) Include the following When Where Note Word Format of DRAFT Agreement Contact information for the external party to the agreement Upon receipt of CDA draft cris@med.miami.edu A Non-Disclosure Agreement is similar and follows the same process. Inbound Material Transfer Agreement (MTA) Include the following When Where Note Word Format of DRAFT Agreement Upon receipt of MTA draft from provider cris@med.miami.edu 1) ORA processes inbound MTAs where material is being provided at NO COST TO UM. If your MTA involves the purchase of, or payment for, the materials, it should be reviewed and processed by Supply Chain Services/Procurement and not ORA. Please submit directly to SupplyChain Services-Procurement to avoid delay. 2) OUTBOUND Material Transfer Agreements are handled by the Office of Technology Transfer. Master Agreement Include the following When Where Word Format of DRAFT Agreement Upon receipt of Master Agreement cris@med.miami.edu Memorandum of Understanding Agreement (MOU) Include the following When Where Note Draft Agreement Scope of Work Collaborator’s contact information Upon receipt of Agreement draft mra@med.miami.edu Also referred to as a Collaboration Agreement and follows the same process. Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) Include the following When Where Note Word Format of DRAFT Agreement Contact information for the external party to the agreement Upon receipt of NDA draft cris@med.miami.edu A Confidentiality Agreement is similar and follows the same process. Teaming Agreement Include the following When Where Prime Agency’s RFP/Solicitation/BAA Word Format of DRAFT Agreement Contact information for the external party to the agreement Upon receipt of Teaming Agreement mra@med.miami.edu Agreements (UM Receiving Funds) Agreements which involve UM receiving funds from an external entity and their associated Amendments. Governmentally Funded – federal, state, city, county, etc Include the following When Where Note IBISResearch/Proposal Identifiers If applicable, include IRB, IACUC and/or IBC approval documentation For state/county contracts which require Level 2 Background Screening for personnel on the project, provide proof of screening, if applicable. If the study anticipates the use of JHS’ facilities, resources or services, include: Initiated in IBISResearch If an amendment, provide draft with associated supporting documents as applicable JHS Clinical Trials Office (CTO) Application (completely filled and signed by PI) and Study Calendar (in Draft Excel format, not signed) documents (which can be found at: https://jhsmiami.org/jhsofficeresearch/.) If an Inter Personnel Action (IPA), include Agency Contact information Upon receipt of the contract. If ORA receives the contract before the PI/Dept then ORA will request these documents from PI/Dept. mra@med.miami.edu For Governmental contracts, generally, a proposal has already been submitted through ORA, so ORA would need to review and negotiate the contract. Industry, Association, Foundation Funded Include the following When Where Note Word Format of DRAFT Agreement Sponsor DRAFT budget Protocol/Scope of Work Informed Consent (as applicable) eProst identifier If the study involves the anticipation of JHS’ facilities, resources or services, include: Initiated in IBISResearch If an amendment, provide draft with associated supporting documents as applicable JHS Clinical Trials Office (CTO) Application (completely filled and signed by PI) and Study Calendar (in Draft Excel format, not signed) documents (which can be found at: https://jhsmiami.org/jhsofficeresearch/.) After all documents have been received from the sponsor/CRO and the PI/Department have reviewed, conducted feasibility assessment, and approved the project. cris@med.miami.edu Association and Foundation agreements follow the same process. Applications/Proposal Applications (also known as Proposal) which UM submits to an external sponsor in the hopes of receiving funding. In most cases, UM is following the sponsor’s requirements associated with how the application is built, submitted and will be funded, if funded. Include the following When Where Note Complete/Final Application – including but not limited to: Budget Justification Abstract/Scope Higher Approval Requests, if applicable Funding Announcement If the study involves the anticipation of JHS’ facilities, resources or services, include: Budget that includes JHS costs and expenses. Follow the Application Deadline Policy mra@med.miami.edu For private foundations and corporate foundations/giving programs, the Office of Corporate and Foundation Relations must also review and approve proposals to ensure guidelines are met and accurate supporting documentation is included. The following F & A Moratorium message is effective 8-2-2017. It does not impact proposals/contracts utilizing: Sponsor-pubished rates UM federally negotiated rates Industry funded clinical trials - 29% F&A F&A Waiver Requests must be submitted to ORA at least 15 days prior to the deadline. Award Documents Include the following When Where Send email with the award documentation. Upon receipt of notice of award. ORA-SI@miami.edu Closeout Documents Include the following When Where As required by sponsor, but typically includes: Invention Statement Final Progress Report Property Report Other as required by sponsor When project is closed and sponsor requires final reports. Documents must be sent prior to reporting due date. ORA team lead assigned to your department/center Please see Who is my ORA contact Person. Equipment Acquisition not included in Original Budget Include the following When Where Letter/Email Request addressed to Sponsor Upon identification of need. ORAAwardAdmin@miami.edu Export Control Forms and Questions Include the following When Where Completed Export Control Compliance forms Product Classification forms End User Disclosure forms Any export control compliance questions As applicable Exportcontrol@miami.edu Financial Reporting Requests Include the following When Where Email with request Based on Terms and Conditions of Award. ORA does not require rebudgeting when agency allows flexibility. ORAAwardAdmin@miami.edu Jackson Health System (JHS) Work Order Jackson Health System (JHS) Work Order under the UM / JHS Master Research Collaboration Agreement) and funded from a Sponsored Project/Activity. Include the following When Where Outbound Subaward / Jackson Work Order Request If project is under an award (not Agreement) provide the following: JHS Clinical Trials Office (CTO) Application (completely filled and signed by PI) and Study Calendar (in Draft Excel format, not signed) documents, which can be found at: https://jacksonhealth.org/clinical/submission/. Upon receipt of the Notice of Award from ORA. cris@med.miami.edu Just In Time Post-Application and Pre-Award Submission After UM submits an application to our external sponsors, the sponsor may request additional documentation from UM (including but not limited to Just In Time Information) Include the following When Where IBISResearch/Proposal Numbers Sponsor requested information (e.g., IRB/IACUC/IBC Approval, Current & Pending, etc.) Sponsor's communication which shows what documents were requested and when these documents must be provided to the sponsor Based on sponsor request mra@med.miami.edu No Cost Extensions Include the following When Where Requested revised end date Scientific justification for extension Plan for using unobligated funds Confirmation that objectives, scope of project remains unchanged. When PI has identified a scientific need to extend the project and UM has delegated authority to approve the NCE. ORAAwardAdmin@miami.edu Include the following When Where Letter/Email Request addressed to Sponsor Prior Written Approval Required MRA@med.miami.edu Outbound Subaward Requests Outbound Subaward requests which UM is contracting with an external entity to perform a portion of UM’s overall scope/science. Include the following When Where For each external entity, please submit the following as a complete package: Outbound Subaward / Jackson Work Order Request Scope Budget Justification Deliverables Upon receipt of the Notice of Award from ORA. mra@med.miami.edu PI Transfer to Another Institution From UM Include the following When Where Note Send email. Promptly upon notification. ORAAwardAdmin@miami.edu Please refer to the PI Transfer information. PI Transfer From Another Institution to UM Include the following When Where Note Send email. Promptly upon notification. MRA@med.miami.edu Please refer to the PI Transfer information. Pre-Award Costs up to 90 Days Include the following When Where Internal Prior Approval Request (IPAR) When terms and conditions of the sponsor allow. ORAAwardAdmin@miami.edu Rebudgeting Include the following When Where Justification Workday budget plan with revised amounts per category Based on Terms and Conditions of Award. ORA does not require rebudgeting when agency allows flexibility. ORAAwardAdmin@miami.edu Include the following When Where Letter/Email Request addressed to Sponsor Prior Written Approval Required ORAAwardAdmin@miami.edu Requests for Clinical Procedure Pricing Include the following When Where Detailed description of procedures, where services will be rendered, and associated CPT Codes Identification of sponsor (i.e. Federal, Industry, Foundation). Requested prior to proposal budget preparation cris@med.miami.edu Requests for Medicare Coverage Analysis Revisions Include the following When Where Copy of prior Medicare Coverage Analysis eProst Number Reason for revision request Documents associated with the reason for the revision (updated protocol, etc.) When needed cris@med.miami.edu RRS/PI Portal Access Requests Include the following When Where Research Reporting System Access Request Form When access to RRS/PI Portal system is needed ORA-SI@miami.edu Salary Cap/Cost Sharing Include the following When Where Request for salary cap or cost sharing account Based on Terms and Conditions of Award. ORA does not require rebudgeting when agency allows flexibility. ORAAwardAdmin@miami.edu Service Center Rates Include the following When Where All matters related to service/recharge center accounting and billing Submitting billing rate sheets to ORA for review and approval Any questions regarding what function should be assigned to space during the annual space survey/certification process As applicable Costanalysis.ORA@miami.edu Submission to UM's Sponsors (including Just In Time) Post-Application and Pre-Award Submission (Just In Time) After UM submits an application to our external sponsors, the sponsor may request additional documentation from UM (including but not limited to Just In Time Information) Include the following When Where IBISResearch/Proposal Numbers Sponsor's communication which shows what documents were requested and when these documents must be provided to the sponsor Sponsor requested information (e.g., IRB/IACUC/IBC Approval, Current & Pending, etc.) Based on sponsor request mra@med.miami.edu Sponsor Required Progress Report Include the following When Where Note Supporting documentation, if applicable Based upon sponsor requirements mra@med.miami.edu All FINAL reports and interim financial reports are handled by Post Award; therefore, please contact them via oraawardadmin@miami.edu Agency Requests (Carry Forward, Scope Revision, Change of PI/CO-I/Key Personnel) Include the following When Where Note Word format of DRAFT agency request Supporting documentation, if applicable Upon identification of need mra@med.miami.edu Please see Rebudgeting and No Cost Extension sections contained above for instructions on How to Submit. Systems, Web, Training, Reporting Questions Include the following When Where Send email with specific questions. As applicable. ORA-SI@miami.edu University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Research Administration 1320 S. Dixie Hwy, Suite 650 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3871 305-284-3871 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices