COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Chrome River Section Menu Accounts Payable Chrome River Travel Forms Business Procurement Card Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Accounts Payable Home Welcome to Chrome River WSU’s Travel, Pcard and Invoice Software Solution This software replaced the Pcard Log and eForm monthly process along with TEM and Banner Workflow for electronic approvals along with Direct Payments using the ICD form. Chrome River Login Getting Started Expense Receipts Invoice Attachments Login Directions COVID-19 Travel and Purchases FAQ Where do I make a comment that the Travel, Pcard Transaction or Purchase is related to COVID-19? COVID Comment Location – will show you the various modules that the “COVID” term is required in. I used my pcard for travel expenses (i.e. conference registration, airfare, rental car, hotel deposit). The travel event has been cancelled due to COVID-19 but the pcard charges have already been reconciled in Chrome River. What steps do I take? Locate the submitted expense report(s) through the “Submitted Last 90 Days” section of Chrome River. Open the report and click on the appropriate expense line. Enter “COVID” in the comment section of each expense line related to the canceled travel event. Contact the vendor associated with each charge and request a refund to be issued back to the pcard. I contacted the vendor for a refund of travel related expenses (i.e. conference registration, airfare, rental car, hotel deposit), however, the vendor will not issue a refund. How do I handle the pcard charges in Chrome River? Reconciled Expenses Locate the submitted expense report(s) through the “Submitted Last 90 Days” section of Chrome River. Open the report and click on the appropriate expense line. Enter “COVID” in the comment section of each expense line related to the canceled travel event. Attach any correspondence from the vendor that documents their refusal to issue a refund. If the vendor does not provide written correspondence, enter a comment on the expense line to document that a refund was requested but not obtained from the vendor. Unreconciled Expenses Create a new expense report for the cancelled travel event. Reconcile the pcard charge as if the trip had occurred as normal. Save the expense line. Before submitting the expense report, enter “COVID” in the comment section of each expense line related to the canceled travel event. Attach any correspondence from the vendor that documents their refusal to issue a refund. If the vendor does not provide written correspondence, enter a comment on the expense line to document that a refund was requested but not obtained from the vendor. I used my personal funds for travel expenses (i.e. conference registration, airfare, rental car, hotel deposit) and now my travel event has been cancelled. How do I get reimbursed for my expenses? Make a list of all expenses related to the canceled trip. Contact each vendor (i.e. conference, airline, hotel, rental car company) to inform them of the cancellation and ask for a refund. Communicate the status of each expense/refund to the Travel department wsutraveloffice@wichita.edu and the appropriate departmental personnel (i.e. supervisor, delegate, business manager). Vendor issues credit No further action is needed Vendor does not issue a credit Create a new expense report for the cancelled travel event. Add each expense to the report as if the trip had occurred as normal. Save each expense line. Before submitting the expense report, enter “COVID” in the comment section of each expense line related to the canceled travel event. Attach any correspondence from the vendor that documents their refusal to issue a refund. If the vendor does not provide written correspondence, enter a comment on the expense line to document that a refund was requested but not obtained from the vendor. How do I handle my approved Pre-Approval for a travel event that has been cancelled? Locate the submitted Pre-Approval report(s) through the “Submitted Last 90 Days” section of Chrome River. Enter “COVID” in the comments field on the header of the Pre-Approval and click the Post button located to the right of the comment. Click the Expire button located at the top of the page. Click the Expire button when the system asks if you are sure you want to expire the Pre-Approval. My travel event wasn’t cancelled, but I do not feel comfortable attending amid the COVID-19 outbreak - what are my next steps? Discuss situation with Supervisor and upon agreement, proceed with the following steps. Make a list of all expenses related to the canceled trip. Contact each vendor (i.e. Conference, airline, hotel, rental car company) to inform them of the cancellation and ask for a refund. Communicate the status of each expense/refund to the Travel department wsutraveloffice@wichita.edu and the appropriate departmental personnel (i.e. supervisor, delegate, business manager). See the appropriate FAQ above for detailed directions on how to proceed. The airline will not refund my airfare, they will only issue a ticket credit in my name that can be applied towards a future ticket purchase. How should I handle this? Send an email to wsutraveloffice@wichita.edu to provide details about the credit (i.e. the airline carrier, amount of credit, fees assessed, etc.). Traveler enters a comment on the original expense line for the transaction indicating that a ticket credit has been obtained. Traveler tracks the unused ticket credit and applies the credit towards the airfare ticket for the next scheduled business travel event. At the time of rebooking, airline may assess a $200 change fee. If they do, inform airline of the reason for the original cancellation (COVID-19) and send cancellation documentation to airline. Traveler provides documentation in Chrome River showing the application of the unused ticket credit. What if I still have questions? If you have questions or need guidance on processing your travel in Chrome River, please contact the Travel department at wsutraveloffice@wichita.edu or by phone at (316) 978 -5988. How should purchase requisitions be handled? In accordance with the cost-saving measures communicated by Dr. Jay Golden, starting Monday, April 13, 2020, purchase requisitions will be routed to the appropriate VP for approval prior to final execution by the Purchasing Department. This does not apply to any purchases funded by grants. This procedural change only applies to purchase orders that are generated by completing a NEW purchase requisition in Banner. This would be any purchase over $10,000, purchases requiring a bid, or purchases from state contracts. Purchases Orders which are already encumbered (approved prior to April 13) and you are authorizing a payment against this existing contract, are also OK to proceed. Direct Pay Invoices and Procurement Card expenses processed in Chrome River continue as normal. At this point in time, it the responsibility of the Budget Officer, Chair, Dean, etc., to ensure those expenditures are essential to the ongoing support of the University. Purchase Requisitions are entered into Banner by the departmental administrative assistant and automatically routed to the Budget Officer for approval. Once approved the requisition is routed to Purchasing. After purchasing reviews the requisition, they will email the appropriate VP with the information about the requisition so the VP can make the determination IF this purchase is an essential need. Once the VP completes the review, email purchasing (purchasing.office@wichita.edu) and let them know if the requisition is approved or not approved. Once that email is received by Purchasing, the requisition will be processed and the purchase order will be sent to the vendor and a PO Receiving Copy returned to the person initiating the request. If it is not approved, purchasing will cancel the requisition and send an email denoting “denied by VP”. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact lois.tatro@wichita.edu or purchasing.office@wichita.edu. Chrome River Manual The Chrome River manual is designed to help you navigate through the new Accounts Payable system for Pcard transactions and Travel. This manual is for you to reference while you learn to create the following reports: Pre-Approval, Travel and Pcard. Review each section below and start to enjoy all of the great benefits Chrome River has to offer. General Information System Requirements Introduction to Chrome River Adding an Alternate Email Delegate Information Approvals Email Notifications Funding Business Purpose Requirements Payment Information Compliance Warnings Compliance Violations SNAP App Instructions Inquiry - Reporting Glossary Receipts & Attachments Introduction to Receipts Uploading & Attaching Receipts Pcard Reconciliation Expense Report Pcard Reconciliation Expense Report Adding Expenses Business Purpose Requirements Detailed Tile Information Account Code Tool for Pcard Tiles - be sure to Enable Content to utilize the excel sheet. Expense - Travel Report Employee Expense Report Student Expense Report Candidate Expense Report Import a Pre-Approval Report Adding Expenses Detailed Tile Information Pre-Approval Report Employee Pre-Approval Report Student Pre-Approval Report Candidate Pre-Approval Report Editing a Pre-Approval Detailed Tile Information Invoice Creating an Invoice using Extract Data (OCR) Creating an Invoice using Prior Invoice Creating an Invoice using a Template Creating an Invoice using Manual Entry Creating a New Vendor Creating a New Vendor Address Approving and Returning an Invoice Creating a Template Uploading an Attachment via Email Video, PowerPoint and Training Information YouTube Videos This YouTube video will walk you through creating a Pre-Approval Report for an Employee. Pre-Approval Report for an Employee This YouTube video will walk you through creating an Expense Report for an Employee. Expense Report for an Employee PowerPoints The following PowerPoints will assist you in navigating the new system. How to Approve a Expense or Pre-Approval Report How to create a Pre-Approval Report How to create an Expense Report Introduction to Expense Introduction to Invoice Trainings Sign up for Chrome River Open Lab trainings in myTraining. To access myTraining, log in to your myWSU and click the icon in the lower left. For questions, contact myTraining@wichita.edu. Testing scenarios for a Pre-Approval Report, Travel Expense Report, Pcard Expense Report, Invoice Payment. Example of a Completed Invoice Quick Reference Guides The quick reference guides are designed to give a brief explanation on each topic with reference pictures to aid you in completing the report in Chrome River. For detailed information refer to the Chrome River manual in the section above. Pre-Approval Reports Creating a Pre-Approval Report - Employee Creating a Pre-Approval Report - Student Creating a Pre-Approval Report - Candidate Travel Expense Reports Creating an Expense Report - Employee Creating an Expense Report - Employee with Pcard Charges Creating an Expense Report - Candidate Creating an Expense Report - Student Detailed Tile explanation for completing a report Creating a Per Diem Expense Creating a Hotel Expense Creating a Mileage Expense Creating a Per Diem Expense for Pre-Approval Pcard Expense Report Creating a Pcard Reconciliation Report Account Code Tool for Pcard Tiles - be sure to Enable Content to utilize the excel sheet BPC (Pcard) Statement Schedule and Report Due Dates for 2022 Receipt, Delegate, Email Information How to login to Chrome River from myWSU How to add an Alternate Email Address How to add a Delegate to your profile How to upload a receipt through email Resolution for Approving via Email Issue Invoice Creating an Invoice using Extract Data (OCR) Creating an Invoice using Prior Invoice Creating an Invoice using a Template Creating an Invoice using Manual Entry Approving and Returning an Invoice Creating a New Vendor Creating a New Vendor Address Creating a Template Uploading an Attachment via Email Support - Contact Us The contact us listed below will send an email to the specific department to help you in completing any task or answer any questions you have while in the new Chrome River system. Contact Email Address Accounts Payable Support accountspayable@wichita.edu Pcard Non-Travel Support accountspayable@wichita.edu Travel Support wsutraveloffice@wichita.edu Pcard Travel Support wsutraveloffice@wichita.edu Vendor Maintenance Support accountspayable@wichita.edu FAQs The frequently asked questions in this section are specific to Chrome River, if you have specific questions not answered here please go to the In This Section at the top of the page and go to the FAQ web page. General Chrome River Questions Q: What is Chrome River and when will it be available? A: Chrome River is the online Travel Pre-Approval (formally Travel Authorization), Travel Expense Report (formally Travel Reimbursement), Procurement Card Reconciliation, and Invoice system for WSU. Chrome River Expense will be available to all employees July 29, 2019. The implementation of Chrome River Invoice is coming soon! Q: How do I access the System? A: The link will be provided in myWSU. Chrome River is a web-based system and does not require the VPN. Use your myWSU credentials to log in. You can also access Chrome River from your mobile device using web access (there is no app). The recommended internet browser for Chrome River is Google Chrome. Q: Can I access Chrome River on my mobile device? A: Chrome River is web-based software and does not require an app. More information will be provided on how to access Chrome River after the system is live on July 29, 2019. Q: Do I need to have my WSU email account on my cell phone to use the Chrome River SNAP app? A: No, the Chrome River SNAP app will ask you to input an email address and you will have to list the wichita.edu address. Q: I am trying to approve my report through the email and I am asked to Add an Account to Mail, how do I get past this message? A: Window 10 has the default app for mail and it is pointing to the incorrect program. To correct this you can use this document to change the settings. Email Issue Q: How do I learn how to use Chrome River? A: Chrome River is very user-friendly. Visit the reference section on the Chrome River webpage to view quick reference guides, step-by-step job aids, demonstration PowerPoint, and the Chrome River manual. In addition, Chrome River has a robust help section that can be accessed from within the software. To schedule a training session in your department, please contact Kristie Courtney 978-5988 or Sonya Emmart 978-5886. Q: What are the benefits of using Chrome River? A: There are many benefits to utilizing Chrome River, that include but are not limited to; the system is intuitive and user-friendly; automated approvals (that allow for tracking); built in edit checks that help verify compliance before submission; eliminates paper waste by managing receipts within the system and speeds up the reimbursement process. Q: What Benefits will the Traveler Experience? A: Chrome River is a fast, fluid mobile web application that offers the latest in travel and expense management. Travelers will enjoy the same user experience across all devices – desktops, laptops, tablets and smartphones. The business rules engine in the application will assist travelers in complying with State of Kansas and WSU policies more efficiently by applying those policies as the Expense Report is created. This prevents downstream delays in processing reimbursements by eliminating much of the back and forth that currently happens as reports are audited. The application provides multiple options for attaching receipts to transactions, which will greatly increase efficiency and decrease processing time for reimbursements. Just imagine completing your Expense Report from your smartphone with snapshots of receipts while you wait in the airport for your flight home! Q: Will all travelers/cardholders enter their own documents (Pre-Approval, Expense Report, Pcard Reconciliation Reports) themselves or does Chrome River allow for delegates? A: Departments can chose whether travelers/cardholders (expense owners) enter their own transactions or whether a delegate enters transactions on their behalf. To assign a delegate, the traveler/cardholder (expense owner) will log into Chrome River, then tap their name displayed in the upper right corner of the screen. This will open up the user menu. Select Settings, then select Delegate Settings from the menu displayed on the left side of the screen. In the section labeled “My Delegates” click the Add New Delegates link. In the field that appears, begin typing the name of the person you would like to assign as your delegate. When you have located the appropriate name, click on the name to select it. That person’s name should now appear in the My Delegates section with an “X” directly to the left of it. Click your name in the upper right corner to return to the user menu and select Logout to exit Chrome River. Q: Do I need to train my travelers on how to use Chrome River? A: We highly recommend attending one of the trainings offered by Accounts Payable along with reviewing the training and reference material posted on wichita.edu/cr. There will also be multiple open lab offerings beginning July 30, 2019 where we will be offering assistance with getting started in Chrome River. Q: Can Students sign into Chrome River? A: Students cannot log into Chrome River unless they are also an employee of WSU. Q: How do we process student travel in Chrome River if students cannot log in? A: A WSU staff member will need to create a Pre-Approval or Expense Report in Chrome River for the student. The staff member will select “Student” from the Traveler Type drop down on the header of the document, and select the appropriate record for the student in the vendor drop down. Please see Reference Documents in the section above for detailed instructions. Receipts Q: What is the email address to send Expense receipts to a profile? A: Emailing from user’s wichita.edu account To: receipt@ca1.chromeriver.com Subject: Dollar amount (e.g. 125.00) Attachments: Copy of receipt A: Emailing from one user to another user’s e-wallet To: receipt@ca1.chromeriver.com Subject: Email address (e.g. kristie.courtney@wichita.edu) Attachments: Copy of receipt Q: What is the email address to send Invoice Attachments to Chrome River? A: The system only allows the attachment to go to the person who is emailing in the receipt. To: wichita.edu-vision@invoice.ca1.chromeriver.com Subject: Vendor Name Attachments: Copy of the Vendor Invoice Body: Remove all images contained in the email signature Q: Do I need to have myWSU email account on my cell phone to email receipts to my Chrome River Profile? A: No, you can add an alternative email address to your Chrome River profile. Once added and verified, you can email receipts from the alternative email address directly to your Chrome River profile. Q: How do I submit receipts from restaurants where I have included a tip? A: You would submit both the itemized receipt and the summary receipt (which shows the tip amount) to Chrome River. Pre-Approval Report Q: How do I edit a Pre-Approval (PA) that has already been approved? A: Users cannot edit Pre-Approvals or Expense Reports that have already been approved. You have the ability to ‘recall’ and edit if the Pre-Approval or Expense Report has not been finalized. Q: If you are taking a group of students on a travel event, does each student need to have a Pre-Approval entered into the system? A: No, only the faculty member will have a Pre-Approval within Chrome River. The faculty member will still fill out the Student Affairs form ‘University-Sanctioned Student Travel Registration Form’ per WSU policy 8.14 Student Travel and submit this to Student Affairs. Travel Expense Report Q: How do I handle it when a candidate or student does not have a vendor id when I am ready to create an Expense Report? A: The system has a field on the report header to input the Student or Candidate’s information. You will obtain the W-9 from the student when creating the Pre-Approval and send it to Accounts Payable Box 38. You will obtain the W-9 from the Candidate after they have arrived to campus and send it to Accounts Payable Box 38 as soon as they have completed the form to allow for processing time by the State of Kansas. This will allow Accounts Payable to have the Candidate set up and in Chrome River by the time you are ready to complete the reimbursement. Q: If an expense was purchased with WSU issued Pcard in advance of the business travel do I submit multiple Expense Reports? A: Yes, you will reconcile the Pcard transactions based on statement cycle. If the transactions are in advance you could possibly generate 2 reports based on timing, one for the expenses in advance and one for the expenses after the trip is completed. Pcard Expense Report Q: How will I be notified my Pcard Reconciliation (Non-Travel) Report is due? A: The Pcard statement date along with the due date will be listed on the company information page within Chrome River. It is the cardholders responsibility to remain aware of the statement dates and due dates. Cardholders will also receive an email and paper statement from UMB Card Services which will also serve as a reminder that the reconciliation deadline is approaching. At this time, Financial Operations will send out the monthly email notification to alert cardholders of the Pcard Reconciliation Report due date. Q: If I have Pcard charges loading to my profile each day, do I have to wait until the statement closes to begin my Pcard Reconciliation? A: No, you can begin reconciling Pcard charges as soon as they appear in Chrome River. Users are encouraged to start a Pcard Reconciliation (Non-Travel) Report on the first day of the new statement cycle (if you are going to utilize your card during the cycle). Then as transactions load to Chrome River, you can reconcile individual charges and add them to that cycles Pcard Reconciliation (Non-Travel) Report. At the end of the statement cycle when all transactions have been accounted for and reconciled, the user can submit the report. Q: What do I do if a Pcard transaction appears in Chrome River and I don't recognize it or isn’t the correct amount? A: Contact the Vendor for further information, if the charge is fraud contact the BPC Program Administrator for assistance. Once the charge and any corresponding credits have been loaded into Chrome River they must be reconciled and submitted on an Pcard Reconciliation (Non-Travel) Report. Invoice Coming Soon! Forms & Quick LinksForms Account Code Tool BPC Schedule Certified Statement for Receipts BPC Application Travel Request Form Quick Links Travel Handbook FAQs International Travel Authorization Form Contact Us Accounts Payable Jardine Hall 201, Box 38 Phone: (316) 978-3070 Fax: (316) 978-3738 accountspayable@wichita.edu wsutraveloffice@wichita.edu PcardAdmin@wichita.edu Chrome River Rapids Effective Tuesday, February 1, 2022, Hall's Culligan will be increasing its bottled water price to $5/bottle and dispensing units will incur a $2/month charge. Effective Sunday, August 1, 2021, Sunflower Travel agency will be increasing its booking fees for airfare, hotel, and vehicle rental reservations. The new pricing is as follows: - Hotel and vehicle reservations $15.00 - Airfare bookings $30.00 Departmental Paper ICDs - NEW INSTRUCTIONS! Effective Monday, February 17, 2020, route all paper ICDs (including partial and full payments on purchase orders) to Financial Operations, Jardine Hall Room 201, Campus Box 38. Accounts Payable will ensure the document is routed for additional approvals, if needed. NEW! BPC (Pcard) Statement Schedule and Report Due Dates for 2022. BPC Schedule Each international travel event requires completion of BOTH the Chrome River Pre-Approval Report and the International Travel Authorization Form prior to making travel arrangements. Click HERE to access the form. Contact compliance@wichita.edu with questions or for assistance. To learn more about Chrome River sign up for a training in myTraining through myWSU. When approving via Email and you receive an error - use this job aid to correct the issue. Adding Default Email Got Questions? Need Assistance? Email Us! Meet the Staff Accounts Payable Invoices Chrome River Pcard Reconciliation Journal Requests IOTD's Vendor Questions Payment Inquiries Greenphire Program Inquiries Check Cancellation & Reissue Chrome River Training and Assistance AP General Questions Accounts Payable Website Procurement Card Administration Submit Procurement Card Applications Transaction and Card Limit Requests Declines / Override Requests Pcard Program Training Pcard General Questions Pcard Website Purchasing Requisition Training and Assistance Submit Requisition Back-up Documentation Purchasing Policy Guidance Request for Proposal (RFP) and Request for Bid (RFB) Guidance Purchase Orders Purchasing General Questions Purchasing Website Travel Travel Authorizations Expense Reports Travel Related Pcard Reconciliation Accident Reporting Travel Policy Questions Chrome River Training and Assistance Travel General Questions Travel Website 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©