About Home Events Giving REU Nevis in the News Contact us Basics What we do Students and visitors What is physics? Physics for you Research Overview ATLAS MicroBooNE VERITAS Heavy ion Astrophysics RARAF Info Phone Book Directions Events Meeting rooms Services Webmail Wiki Viewcal (need login) Room reservations DocDB A/V (for tech setup) Before you send e-mail... Unfortunately, because of all the spam we get, we're forced to include this special warning page before you can actually send e-mail to someone at Nevis. To put it simply: If you just want to talk, fine. If you want to sell something, go away. After you've read this warning and if you're willing to abide by its terms, go ahead and send e-mail to <contact> of <nevis.columbia.edu> There used to be a mail link on this page. There isn't anymore. The aggressive nature of spammer robots, which search the web for addresses to add to spam mailing lists, forces us to give you the address in text form. You will have to type the above text <delimited by angle brackets> manually into your e-mail program, replacing "of" with @. Here's the legalese, which you should read carefully if you're a spammer or a marketer: Nevis Laboratories is a research facility operated by Columbia University and funded in part by the United States Government. The presence of this web site and the availability of the above electronic mail address does not constitute permission to use the resources of Nevis Labs for the purposes of unsolicited advertising. In particular: You do not have permission to send unsolicited advertisements or unsolicited announcements via electronic mail or any other form of communication, including telephone calls, conventional mail, or personal visits. You do not have permission to add or circulate any information concerning any Nevis personnel to any mailing list, marketing database, or other list with the purpose of sending unsolicited advertisements or unsolicited announcements. "Information" includes the use of anyone's name, address, electronic mail address, the uniform resource location (URL) of this or any other web pages, or any other personal information that may be determined directly or indirectly from this web site. You do not have permission to use or circulate the name, electronic mail address, or any other personal information (as defined in the preceeding sentence) to any organization, in any form (including written, electronic, and verbal) for advertising or marketing purposes. WEBMASTER