Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift CU SAFETY Services Property Registration Students may register their property with the CUPD online at https://stuaff.clemson.edu/cupd/propertyReg. This service allows students to register the serial numbers of their valuables for easy access in the event any of these items are lost or stolen. Lost and Found CUPD acts as a central site for lost items. To report a lost or found item call 864-656-0433 or come by CUPD headquarters at 124 Ravenel Center Place, Seneca, SC 29678 between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Crime Victim Services Crime victims receive continued information and assistance as provided by law. The department employs a Victims' Advocate to serve you. For more information about victim's rights and services Call Victim Advocate Sergeant Michelle Young at 864-656-5256. Fingerprinting For members of the Clemson University community who require fingerprints for prospective employers, security clearances and bar applications, the CU Police Department offers fingerprinting services Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Please call 864-656-2222 prior to coming to CUPD headquarters at 124 Ravenel Center Place, Seneca, SC 29678 to ensure that CUPD personnel are available to assist you. You may be asked to make an appointment. The cost of fingerprinting service is free for students. Applicants must present a photo ID (driver's license or passport) and a Clemson University ID. All fingerprint cards should be printed in black ink. Fingerprint cards should be provided by the requesting authority. Tiger Transit Safe rides are provided by Clemson University Parking and Transit Services via Tiger Transit to university students, faculty, staff and visitors between 6 p.m. and 6 a.m. to and from any campus location. To request Tiger Transit call 864-656-3333 to schedule a ride. During peak traffic times surrounding home football games, this service may not be available. Home Police Message from the Chief Staff Operations Services Clery Act Crime Prevention Crime Reporting/Stats Public Safety Academy Employment News and Notices Rave Guardian App Student Patrol Requests/Forms Contact Us Police Reform Initiative Fire and EMS Emergency Management Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram