Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Academics & Research Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Graduate School Skip to Navigation Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) NIH-PREP (Biological and Biomedical Sciences) The Brown Post-baccalaureate Research Education Program is a NIH-funded internship program that adopts a comprehensive yet customizable approach to support student academic and career development. The program specifically addresses the critical transition into, and successful completion of doctoral training programs in biomedical and behavioral sciences by improving participants’ academic credentials, enhancing research skills and building confidence in their abilities to successfully matriculate and complete a Ph.D. program. See a list of current and previous PREP scholars. Program: The Brown post-baccalaureate program is one-year and runs from June to May. Participants receive a stipend of $27,000 for the twelve month-period for living expenses. Summer Independent study/research Orientation GRE Preparation Course IMSD Training Modules Leadership Alliance National Symposium Fall Semester Brown Course Monthly Group Lunches Critical Skills Workshop Journal Club Spring Semester Independent study/research Journal Club Monthly Group Lunches PREP Symposium Faculty Brown PREP faculty trainers are associated with the Division of Biology and Medicine, Alpert School of Medicine, The School of Public Health and the Graduate School. They are a collaborative group of individuals from diverse backgrounds; accomplished and well-funded with laboratory and classroom based expertise in the sciences; utilize multidisciplinary approaches in research and teaching; and have a proven track record of training and mentoring. Numerous Brown PREP faculty mentors are also training faculty on other multidisciplinary training grants that support graduate research, such as the Brown IMSD Program, the Pre-doctoral Training Program in Trans-Disciplinary Pharmacological Sciences, and the Postdoctoral Comparative Effectiveness Development Training Award. See full list of faculty. Eligibility The Brown PREP program is intended for students who have expressed interest in pursuing doctoral level training, who need to strengthen their content knowledge and skill preparedness in order to be competitive for graduate training. We will identify trainees from diverse backgrounds who have an awareness of graduate school process, experience overcoming obstacles, the ability to work effectively in a team and demonstrated a knowledge and understanding of doctoral level training that will lead to research-based careers in the biomedical and behavioral sciences. Additional requirements include: You must be a U.S. citizen, national or permanent resident. You must have received a baccalaureate degree in a biomedically-relevant field from an accredited U.S. college or university no more than 36 months prior to the start of Brown PREP. You must not be enrolled in another degree program at the time the PREP program begins. You must intend to apply to at least five doctoral programs, including Brown, during Brown PREP or within one year of beginning the program. Application The application components of the Brown PREP should include: Statement of purpose that describes a strong commitment to pursue biomedical research and doctoral level training including previous research experience, research interests (including specific names and departments of faculty you would like to work with) and why the Brown PREP program will enhance your chances of getting into a PhD graduate program; Two letters of recommendation that specifically address the applicant’s commitment to research and capacity for success in a research career; Current resume or curriculum vitae (CV); and Current transcripts to provide information on applicant’s academic preparation. Deadline: February 1, 2022 Application opens: November 1, 2021 Contact: Maija Hallsmith NIH-PREP Program Administrator Telephone: 401-863-9404 Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Ph.D. Requirements Master's Requirements Fields of Study Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Fifth-Year Master's Degree Concurrent Bachelor's/Master's Degrees Distinctive Opportunities Graduate Advising and Mentoring Rules & Regulations Course Registration Research Professional Development Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Partnerships & Exchanges Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Apply Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants