Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives National Security and Privacy The evolving, and often competing, demands of national security, commerce, and privacy create a challenging area of law and policy. Understanding these complexities is critical for lawyers planning to operate in the public sphere. How can we balance liberty and security in a post-9/11 world? Led by faculty with senior government experience, Columbia’s curriculum in national security law and privacy immerses students in the legal and constitutional intricacies posed by government intelligence gathering, use of military force, surveillance, cybersecurity threats, military courts, and related post-9/11 challenges. Why Columbia? Learn from faculty experts who have served in Republican and Democratic administrations (and know first-hand the challenges of national security and foreign policy) as well as those who have led court challenges to the constitutionality of preventive detention and secret deportation hearings. Take seminars that focus on the ways in which the 9/11 attacks and the government’s response have changed and shaped national security. Participate in the National Security Law Program, which sponsors public lectures and events that draw senior government and military officials, coordinates events with the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, and offers courses that include Intelligence Law; Military Law and the Constitution; and Cybersecurity, Data Privacy, and Surveillance Law. Join the student-run National Security Law Society, which fosters close connections with faculty and practitioners through events and networking opportunities. Work on strategic litigation through an externship with the Knight First Amendment Institute. The institute’s litigation docket includes cases relating to public officials’ use of social media, restraints on speech by government employees and whistleblowers, and government surveillance of journalists. “We all go through our lives leaving digital footprints about what we do. On the one hand, that gives our intelligence agencies some vast new powers to keep track secretly of what our enemies are doing and, potentially, what our own citizens are doing. On the other hand, new technologies give individuals and organizations vast new powers to expose government secrets. The balance between secrecy and transparency is always in flux. The answer to these puzzles is constantly changing. The way we will continue to balance those two concerns—keeping us safe, preventing government abuse—is by ensuring we have a well-educated public.” —Matthew C. Waxman, Liviu Librescu Professor of Law, faculty chair of the National Security Law Program Related Links Explore Courses National Security Law Program Related Faculty All Faculty Sarah Cleveland Louis Henkin Professor of Human and Constitutional Rights Michael W. Doyle University Professor Jameel Jaffer Adjunct Professor of Law and Journalism Sarah M. Knuckey Lieff Cabraser Clinical Professor of Law Debra A. Livingston Paul J. Kellner Professor of Law David Pozen Vice Dean for Intellectual Life and Charles Keller Beekman Professor of Law Matthew C. Waxman Liviu Librescu Professor of Law Harold S. Edgar Julius Silver Professor Emeritus of Law, Science and Technology All Faculty Listing Related Centers and Programs All Centers and Programs National Security Law Program The National Security Law Program draws on the extensive government experience of Columbia Law School’s faculty to expose students to the real-world challenges facing government officials in the national security field. It supports efforts by faculty members and students to produce policy-relevant scholarship on critical issues, enriching our understanding of both the law and the role of lawyers inside government as well as global issues. The program also hosts events that engage leading government practitioners and legal scholars on contemporary national security issues. Areas of Study International and Comparative Law National Security and Privacy All Centers and Programs Related Experiential Learning Opportunities All Experiential Learning Clinic Smith Family Human Rights Clinic Areas of Study Law of the Workplace Social Justice and Human Rights Externship Externship on the Federal Government: Semester in Washington, D.C. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy All Experiential Learning at Columbia Law Public Interest/Public Service No matter what your area of interest, find ways to incorporate public interest and public service into your academic program and career. Academics Careers Related Student Groups and Journals National Security Law Society Related News Read All Stories More in The Press Events Video Watch: International Law Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Columbia Law Professor Matthew Waxman and Visiting Professor Monica Hakimi discuss the invasion, the immediate responses of other governments, and the potential implications for the international legal order. Faculty News Five Questions on Ukraine for National Security Expert Matthew Waxman In The Press Seize, Don’t Just Freeze, Putin’s Billions Michael W. Doyle | The Washington Post In The Press Peut-on avoir à la fois la liberté et la sécurité ? Bernard E. Harcourt | Usbek et Rica Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.