Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index eLearning & Academic Partnerships Menu Search TTU eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online Student Resources #IAmARedRaider Texas Tech Worldwide eLearning Resources for Online Students Texas Tech University Worldwide eLearning has many resources available to students for online learning. Please view the tips and strategies on this page for success as an online student. Blackboard Support View Detailed Support Information Blackboard Collaborate Ultra - Student GuideFor further support, contact your instructor and they may submit a request on your behalf. IT Help Central Support Email: ithelpcentral@ttu.edu Phone: 806-742-4357 Strive for Honor Remote learning tips to avoid an Academic Integrity allegation As a Texas Tech Worldwide eLearning student, you are an important part of the Red Raider community. No matter where you are, we want to provide you with the resources you need to succeed. On this page are resources for participating in online courses, the student services available to you and Blackboard information. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Strategies for Online Student Success Participating in an online course can be a convenient way to continue your education. This video offers strategies for successfully participating in your online courses. Online Student Services As an online student, you have access to a variety of student services. The video below gives an overview of the services available. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> 24/7 Support Services Are you in need of support and don't know where to go? Visit the student support services website! You can find answers to frequently asked questions and contact our support team 24/7. Student Support Services Website Resources from the Dean of Students Office of the Dean of Students HomepageRaiders ReportStudents of Concern: Available ResourcesRaider ReliefTherapy Assistance Online (TAO) TTU Library Services Texas Tech University library services connect users with resources that advance intellectual inquiry and discovery. Visit the Library Website University Writing Center Services Writing serves as one of the primary means for learning and communication and every good writer needs a good reader. Our services are open to all undergraduate and graduate students as well as faculty and staff. Visit the Writing Center Services Website Online Tutoring The ultimate goal of the Learning Center is to provide you with the resources needed to obtain academic independence and success. Through positive interaction and effective communication, a peer tutor is able to create an educational environment that inspires you to develop autonomous learning strategies. Visit the Online Tutoring Portal Student Career Center Services The University Career Center promotes your success by providing career development, career exploration, and job search opportunities to undergraduate, graduate, international, distance students, and alumni. Opportunities include career assessments, resume and cover letter critiques, mock interviews, personal statement critiques, faculty document critiques, salary negotiation assistance, interview room reservation, career events, and career exploration videos. Hire Red Raiders is the job posting board for employers seeking to hire TTU students and graduates. The Career Center staff is available to assist in identifying your marketable skills and career development needs. Vist the Student Career Center Services website. Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid assists a variety of students to attend Texas Tech University. Financial aid includes scholarships, grants, student employment, student loans and waivers. The website below includes needed applications as well as additional requirements and instructions for accessing important information. View the Financial Aid Information Website Student Disability Services The Texas Tech University Student Disability Services (SDS) staff provides a variety of accommodations and services for individuals with disabilities. Accommodations will be made in response to the specific disability. Visit the Disability Services Website Military and Veteran Students The Military & Veterans Programs is here to assist veterans and their families in achieving academic, personal, and professional success. View Military and Veteran Programs Worldwide eLearning Events Here you can see what's going on at Texas Tech, including the main campus and the regional sites aross the state. See Worldwide eLearning Events Student Complaint Process The process for all students located outside the State of Texas, and for students taking courses or programs offered online/electronic or at regional/off-campus site locations in Texas. Texas Tech University aspires to resolve student grievances, complaints, and concerns fairly and amicably. View Student Complaint Process TTU eLearning Social Media We're active across multiple social media platforms! We publish news, photos, and other information about online programs, regional sites, and more. Follow us to keep up-to-date with what's happening in online and distance education at Texas Tech! Facebook Instagram Additional External Student Resources Many resources have been made available by other members of our community, to those affected by the transition to online learning. Visit the pages below to learn more about these resources for students. Barnes & Noble - bartelby (self-tutoring and writing services) Barnes & Noble joined VitalSource (free access to eTextbooks) Using Blackboard Your online courses are accessed through a learning management system called Blackboard. Each course has its own page where information such as the syllabus, assignments, grade book, and communication tools are accessible. Below are some helpul links and video tutorials covering many of the features found in Blackboard. To log into Blackboard, use your eRaider username and password. Once logged in, your currently enrolled courses can be accessed using the "My Courses" tab at the right of the home screen. From there, you can access the course materials and information, communicate with your instructor and peers, submit assignments, and view your grade book. Login to Blackboard Blackboard will work best on a browser such as Google Chrome or Firefox. For a complete list of browser compatibility resources, click here. Email:ithelpcentral@ttu.edu Phone: 806-742-4357 Additional Contact Information Blackboard HelpTroubleshooting Blackboard Support Videos <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> eLearning & Academic Partnerships Like eLearning & Academic Partnerships on FacebookLike eLearning & Academic Partnerships on Facebook Follow eLearning & Academic Partnerships on InstagramFollow eLearning & Academic Partnerships on Instagram Address Texas Tech Plaza | 1901 University Avenue, Suite 513 | Lubbock, Texas 79410-5095 || Mailing: Box 45095 | Lubbock, TX 79409-5095 Phone Office (806) 742-7227 || Student Support (806) 853-5153 or toll-free (844) 897-0537 Email elearning@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 15, 2021 10:30 AM eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Back Prospective Students eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Prospective Students Back Prospective Student Portal FAQs Finish Your Degree Military and Veterans Change Your Career Current Students eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Current Students Back Student Support Portal Student Blackboard Support Online Tutoring Degree Programs eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Degree Programs Back Bachelor's Degrees Master's Degrees Doctoral Degrees Graduate Certificates Graduate Certification Preparation Programs All Programs Add/Change Program Student Resources eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Student Resources Back Search Courses Tuition Estimator Out-of-State Tuition Student Disability Services Student Complaint Process Non-Degree Seeking Students Transfer Scholarships Regional Sites eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Regional Sites Back TTU at Collin TTU at El Paso TTU at Fredericksburg TTU at Highland Lakes TTU at Hill College TTU Center at Junction TTU at Rockwall TTU at Waco TTU K‑12 Academic Partnerships eLearning & Academic Partnerships Academic Partnerships Back Office of Academic Agreements Office of Continuing Education TTU OnRamps OLLI (50+) Faculty Services About eLearning & Academic Partnerships About Back About eLearning eLearning & Academic Partnerships About About eLearning Back Org Chart History of eLearning at TTU Staff Directory eLearning Council State Authorization Campus Security Report From Anywhere Newsletter eLearning Events Social Media Contact Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index