Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > Campus & Community > Announcements > U.S. News "best graduate schools" 2023 Channels Close Home Chronicle Art & Culture Athletics & Recreation Campus & Community Humanities Faith & Religion Science, Tech & Health Nation, World & Society Economics BC Events Let there be light Veterans Remembrance Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights wins CASE gold award Pops hits a high note Archives BC News Archive Agora Portal Search News Archive U.S. News rankings show strong performances among BC graduate programs Campus & Community / Announcements - Published on March 29, 2022 Boston College's Carroll School of Management, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, and Connell School of Nursing saw improvements this year in the 2023 “Best Graduate Schools” rankings released March 29 by U.S. News & World Report. The Carroll School of Management’s full-time M.B.A. program rose three places in the rankings to 41st overall, while the part-time M.B.A. program improved five places to 30th. The Lynch School of Education rose two places in the rankings to 19th, the highest placement of any Jesuit or Catholic school of education in the United States. The Connell School’s nursing master’s program rose 21 places in the rankings, returning to its 2021 placement of 27th, a year after it had fallen out of the top 30 due to unusually high volatility in last year’s survey. The School of Social Work placed 11th overall this year, a slight drop from its previous 10th place ranking, but the highest overall ranking of the University’s graduate and professional schools. BC Law School fell in this year’s survey to 37th from 29th, attributable largely to multiple ties among law schools ranked above it. This year’s rankings also included graduate programs in the natural and social sciences, which are ranked every four years by U.S. News. Among the highlights: Economics was ranked 27th; Psychology improved two places to 51st; Chemistry was ranked 55th; Mathematics was newly ranked 59th; and Physics improved three places to 68th. Several BC graduate programs were also cited in this year’s specialty rankings category. In the Carroll School of Management, Accounting improved six places to 12th; Finance retained its position at 13th; Business Analytics was newly ranked 21st; and Marketing placed 29th among business schools. In addition, four Lynch School programs finished in the top 20 in specialty rankings, including: Student Counseling and Personnel Services (11th); Elementary Education (14th); Higher Education (15th); Curriculum and Instruction 19th; and Secondary Education (17th). In the Connell School, the Family Specialties Program improved to 10th overall, and the Nursing Anesthesia Program retained its 22nd placement. Among the graduate programs in natural and social sciences, BC had three new specialty placements including: Macroeconomics placing 18th; Algebra, Number Theory, and Algebraic Geometry placing 20th; and Organic Chemistry placing 21st. "Even as we all recognize their limitations, the annual graduate and professional program rankings provide useful data about emerging areas of excellence at Boston College and help us make decisions about how we can continue to strengthen our offerings,” said Provost and Dean of Faculties David Quigley. “Deans and department chairs are interested in the ways in which our peers around the nation assess our approach to graduate education, and pleased that our programs continue to be recognized among the very best in higher education.” Jack Dunn | University Communications | March 2022 Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College