Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Teaching in Higher Education for the Creative Disciplines Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Teaching in Higher Education for the Creative Disciplines Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Teaching in Higher Education for the Creative Disciplines Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Teaching in Higher Education for the Creative Disciplines Certificate (Graduate) The Teaching in Higher Education for the Creative Disciplines Certificate program in the College of Education and Human Development at Temple University provides students with experience using research-based teaching methods to promote student achievement, development and learning in creative disciplines. Through the certificate, students gain advanced pedagogical skills to meet the particular needs of students in postsecondary creative arts classrooms and studios. Students combine research-based practices, learner-centered course design, and motivation and reflection skills to provide support to students in the development of their creative process and product. The Teaching in Higher Education for the Creative Disciplines Certificate program welcomes current faculty members interested in enriching their teaching practices, as well as high school teachers or other professionals who aim to teach creative disciplines in levels of higher education such as undergraduate education. The certificate program is designed to build on the existing Teaching in Higher Education six -credit certificate program for those who teach in creative disciplines. Delivery Method The Teaching in Higher Education for the Creative Disciplines Certificate is offered entirely online. Though you won’t take classes on campus, you’ll complete your online coursework and projects in groups with classmates. Classes & Curriculum Students must complete nine credit hours (three courses) in order to obtain the certificate. The required courses for this program include Seminar Series: Problems in Educational Psychology (Innovation, Technology and Teaching in Higher Education); Teaching Effectively in the Creative Disciplines; and Teaching in Higher Education Seminar. Learn more about coursework for the Graduate Certificate. Related Degrees Higher Education EdD Higher Education MEd Policy and Organizational Studies PhD with a concentration in Higher Education Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For general questions regarding the program, contact Joseph Paris, assistant professor of instruction and faculty program contact for the Teaching in Higher Education Certificate for the Creative Disciplines (Graduate). Phone: 215-204-2810 Email: joseph.paris@temple.edu ED-THEC-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Teaching in Higher Education for the Creative Disciplines Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info