Skip to main content About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Continuing & Professional Education Study Abroad International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education Human Development The Guildhall Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Athletics Mustangs Tickets Recreational Sports Campus Life Research Quick Links Academic Calendar Employment Events Calendar Giving to SMU SMU Store Student Affairs Bush Center Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. The Bush Center and SMU Partnership Center for Presidential History Tower Center for Public Policy and International Affairs Commencement Addresses Resources ☰ The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU SMU The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU Commencement Addresses Commencement Addresses Laura Bush ’68 May 16, 2009 “SMU's proud history and ongoing tradition of excellence are two reasons why George and I are so glad SMU is home to the George W. Bush Presidential Center. We look forward to the partnerships that will develop between the Bush Institute and many of SMU's schools.” "The bonds formed at SMU are strong, and no matter how many years you’ve been away, I hope that you'll find, like I have, that coming back to SMU feels like coming home. That is why I am so happy that George and I will spend the rest of our lives working here on the SMU campus at the Bush Library and Institute.” Read a transcript of her address President George W. Bush May 16, 2015 (SMU’s 100th Spring Commencement Convocation) “Your SMU degree will open the door to a wide variety of career options. Millions will never have had this opportunity. SMU has laid a foundation so you can reason, and continue to learn throughout your life. It has given you the tools to be productive citizens.” Read a transcript of his address View introduction and President G.W. Bush’s May Commencement address View compilation video of national coverage of the speech Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share