College of Design Menu Design Week Design Week 2019 Archive Join Us for Design Week Online Scrapbook Share Your Memories Alumni Work Around the World Wearables Design Show Give Back Day Awards Day Historic Photos (d)innovation Symposium Design Week Student Group Activities Design Week 2020 Mission, Values & Vision College of Design Learning Outcomes Diverse Community Points of Pride History & Organization Facilities Virtual Tour Studio Policies Directions & Parking Design Building King Pavilion Armory Digital Technologies Emergency Procedures Contacts & Directory College & Departmental Contacts College Directory Privacy Policy College Menu Future Students Current Students Departments and Degrees News & Events About The College Research Outreach & Extension Faculty & Staff Resources Alumni & Friends Employers Departments Architecture Art and Visual Culture Biological and Premedical Illustration Community and Regional Planning Graphic Design Industrial Design Interior Design Landscape Architecture Interdisciplinary XD Programs Directory | Workday | Access+ | CyBox | Privacy Policy Search Slide out Menu Mail Facebook Twitter Pinterest Flickr LinkedIn Instagram Apply Now Research Outreach & Extension Faculty & Staff Resources Alumni & Friends Employers Future Students Current Students Departments and Degrees News & Events About The College College of Design Design Week Design Week 2019 Archive Join Us for Design Week Online Scrapbook Share Your Memories Alumni Work Around the World Wearables Design Show Give Back Day Awards Day Historic Photos (d)innovation Symposium Design Week Student Group Activities Design Week 2020 Mission, Values & Vision College of Design Learning Outcomes Diverse Community Points of Pride History & Organization Facilities Virtual Tour Studio Policies Directions & Parking Design Building King Pavilion Armory Digital Technologies Emergency Procedures Contacts & Directory College & Departmental Contacts College Directory Privacy Policy Points of Pride College & Programs We’re one of the most comprehensive design institutions in the US. Everything you see around you, every minute of every day, is likely to be a product of disciplines that live and work together “under one roof” in the College of Design. We offer 9 undergraduate majors; 8 undergraduate minors; 1 post-baccalaureate certificate; 10 graduate majors; 2 graduate certificates and 3 graduate minors. We’re accredited through the National Association of Schools of Art and Design, and our programs are accredited individually by their professional accrediting organizations. Our undergraduate Landscape Architecture (10th), Interior Design (15th) and Architecture (22nd) programs are ranked in the top 25 nationally by DesignIntelligence. Our graduate Landscape Architecture program is ranked 22nd. For 2019-2020 (the most recent rankings available), our Landscape Architecture and Interior Design programs are 7th and our Architecture program is 10th “Most Hired From” by professional design firms, according to DesignIntelligence. Planetizen ranks our Community and Regional Planning graduate program 4th in the US among programs that do not grant a PhD in planning. College Values Online ranks our undergraduate Community and Regional Planning program 3rd and our undergraduate Industrial Design program 8th in the nation for value and excellence. College Choice ranks the Bachelor of Industrial Design program 14th among the 25 best drafting degrees. 94% of our undergraduate and 99% of our graduate students gain employment or continue their education within 6 months after graduation. Our annual student-run Design Career Fair attracts more than 100 employers from around the nation. We connect design students with learning communities (Design Exchange, Design Collaborative, Savanna Studio) to provide a supportive network of faculty, classmates and peer mentors. Undergraduate studio sizes range from 15 to 20 students, with an average of 16. We offer a broad array of hands-on, experiential and service-learning opportunities. Our students can study abroad almost anywhere, with semester, summer and spring break options offered through the college and university. Regular locations include Australia, China, Germany, Italy, Sweden and Uganda. Other recent sites have included Austria, England, Ghana, Morocco, Peru, Rwanda, Scotland and Turkey. We’re one of only 4 North American universities to participate in the 2021 Venice Biennale Sessions in Venice, Italy. This is our 7th appearance at the Biennale, one of the most famous and prestigious cultural exhibitions in the world. The US Department of State Cultural Heritage Documentation Project is a unique partnership between the College of Design and the US Department of State Office of Cultural Heritage that provides students and faculty with opportunities to work on projects at diplomatic sites around the world. Initiated by Ted Grevstad-Nordbrock, assistant professor of Community and Regional Planning, the partnership has included travel to locations including Dublin, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London, Prague, Tangier and Stockholm. Faculty We have 140+ faculty dedicated to teaching, student achievement, research and community outreach. Our faculty have received highly prestigious grants and fellowships: Art and Visual Culture Assistant Professor Johnny DiBlasi, Fulbright US Scholar Program in Creative and Performing Arts – Visual Arts Award Architecture Associate Professor Ulrike Passe, co-PI, National Science Foundation Innovations at the Nexus of Food, Energy and Water Systems (INFEWS) Grant Architecture Associate Professor Kimberly Zarecor, PI, and former Community and Regional Planning Assistant Professor Sara Hamideh, co-PI, National Science Foundation Smart & Connected Communities Planning Grant Art and Visual Culture Associate Professor April Eisman, National Endowment for the Humanities Fellowship for University Teachers Francis Owusu, professor and chair of the Department of Community and Regional Planning, received a Carnegie African Diaspora Fellowship from the Institute for International Education in collaboration with the United States International University-Africa. Students & Recent Graduates Samuel Nordmeyer and Cody Goedken, fourth-year undergraduate architecture students, were named to the 2021 AIA COTE Top Ten for Students. Angelica Lebron Aponte, senior in interior design, and Julia Schettler, graduate student in interior design, were named to the inaugural Metropolis Future 100 class of 2021. Architecture students Brenna Fransen, Dai “Bill” Le and Tarun Bhatia, and industrial design students Joe Fentress and Ryan Fransen collaborated with architecture and industrial design assistant teaching professor Reinaldo Correa on the “Ripples (aka “Big Fish”) public art commission for the Johnston (Iowa) Town Center. Aaron Lewis, who received a Bachelor of Landscape Architecture in May 2020, was named one of only three undergraduate National Olmsted Scholar Finalists. Miranda Moen, who received a Master of Architecture in May 2019, received a Fulbright US Student Program Open Study/Research Award to Norway for the 2020-2021 academic year. Collin Powell, who received a Bachelor of Fine Arts in Interior Design and German and a concurrent Master of Arts in Interior Design in August 2019, received a Fulbright Community-based Combined Award to Austria for the 2019-2020 academic year. He is living in Vienna, where he is teaching English, taking classes and conducting research on public housing. Zoey Mauck, then a senior pursuing degrees in Landscape Architecture and Community and Regional Planning, was named a 2018 Udall Scholar.