Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift CU SAFETY Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Safety Is Priority No. 1 Click here to view and download the 2018 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report. Dear Clemson University Community: There is no higher priority for Clemson University than the safety of our students, faculty, staff and campus visitors. This has always been true, but in the last few years Clemson has focused even more attention on our efforts to keep you safe. Those efforts are paying off — a recent report in USA Today named Clemson the safest college campus in the nation. The CU Safety website at clemson.edu/cusafety provides crucial information on all aspects of safety and security, from emergency preparedness to crime prevention. On the website, students and others can watch safety videos, report a safety issue, sign up for CU Safe text alerts, find directions on how to install the Rave Guardian application on a device and learn about hazardous weather, disaster warnings, evacuation procedures, victim services provided on campus and much more. This publication, the annual Security and Fire Safety Report, which documents all safety programs and policies, is part of that larger effort. It reports crime and fire safety statistics, tells you who to call, what to do if you witness or are the victim of a crime and offers tips to increase your safety awareness. Although Clemson is safe, no campus in America is completely crime free. We need your help to make sure that everyone at the university remains safe and secure. Thank you for giving your careful attention to this important information. Sincerely, James P. Clements, Ph.D. President Clemson University Home Police Fire and EMS Emergency Management Crime Prevention Operations Crime Reporting/Stats Daily Crime Report Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Report a Safety Issue Trespass Notices Requests/Forms Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram