Skip to main content Skip to main content My Account My Account Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Research & Teaching Locations & Collections Visit SMU Libraries About Get Help Find & Borrow Find Books Journals & Newspapers Articles Films Music Scores & Recordings Borrow & Request Checkout & Renew Interlibrary Loan Request a Purchase Guest Services Alumni Services Research Card Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing GIS@SMU SMU Scholar Research Data Digital Scholarship Scholarly Impact & Publishing Copyright Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Locations & Collections Libraries Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Online Exhibits Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Spaces Places to Study Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Class & Event Spaces About About Us Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Faculty & Student Awards Join Us Staff & Student Employment Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Connect with Us News Events Social Media Contact Us Get Help Ask Us (email, chat, text, call) Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support ☰ Libraries Teaching Support Classroom Instruction Classroom Instruction Librarians collaborate with faculty to deliver instruction sessions that engage students in creative and critical thought on research and information. Sessions are held in your classroom, in one of our library classrooms, or through Zoom. Alternatively, librarians teach scheduled workshops that your students can attend outside of class time. Contact your librarian to discuss your instructional goals. Use the Instruction Request Form to schedule a session for your class. What can be included in these sessions? Sessions are uniquely tailored to the needs of your students and your assignment. Select from topics such as: Topic development and planning for research Introduction to disciplinary resources Strategies for searching Evaluating information Research with special collections Digital scholarship and GIS Library Classrooms Librarians can book one of our dedicated library classrooms for the instruction session for your class. Fondren Library Red 323 has 30 seats and 15 computers. The Kitt Investing and Trading Center in Maguire 150A has 37 student computers with access to FactSet and Morningstar Direct. Bloomberg can be accessed from the podium and 10 student terminals. Bridwell Public Conference Room 207 accommodates up to 15 students and is prioritized for classes working with special collections. Student Learning Outcomes The Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education guides us when writing student learning outcomes. Consider the following areas as they relate to the needs of your students for your assignment: Students evaluate information with an understanding of context. Students understand how and why information is produced. Students recognize that information has value and use and manage information ethically. Students approach research with open-minded inquiry. Students understand that knowledge is developed through sustained discourse and competing perspectives. Students apply critical thinking, perseverance, and knowledge of information systems to search. High School Class Instruction SMU Libraries values its relationship with schools in the North Texas area. A librarian may be available to work with high school classes on using our library resources. Request a high school class visit. Individual high school students are welcome to visit SMU Libraries on their own. Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share