Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date February 2, 2021 2021-02-02 Media Contact Kevin Stacey [email protected] 401-863-3766 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Alumni-led nonprofit donates monitors to Providence teachers in name of Brown professor Two Screens for Teachers, cofounded by Class of 1998 graduate Matthew Lerner, donated monitors to more than 400 Providence teachers in the name of legendary Brown professor Andy van Dam. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Thanks to a nonprofit founded by a Brown graduate and alumni affiliated with the University’s computer science department, more than 400 public school teachers in Providence will soon get a second computer monitor to help with remote instruction during the COVID-19 pandemic. The donation comes from Two Screens for Teachers, launched by tech entrepreneur and Class of 1998 Brown graduate Matthew Lerner. Since its founding last September, the organization has provided 24,000 monitors to teachers nationwide and continues to expand. The Providence donation was funded largely by Brown alumni and made in honor of Andy van Dam, a legendary Brown professor and computer graphics pioneer. “A second screen lets teachers see their students on one screen and their lesson plans on the other,” Lerner said. “A second monitor helps teachers and students immediately with remote learning during COVID.” Van Dam says he’d been in contact with Lerner about the project and had been helping out with it various ways, but he had no idea that the donation in Providence would be made in his honor. “It brought tears to my eyes when I got an email from [Lerner] with a link to a ProJo article about it,” he said. “In short, I kvelled. [The project] addresses an absolute immediate need. It’s crazy for teachers to try to work off laptops, where they have to choose between looking at their [lesson] or looking at their students. I think the project is just brilliant and I love Matt for doing it.” The donation to Providence teachers is valued at approximately $50,000. “This has been an incredibly challenging 12 months for our teachers as they adjust to changes not only in their daily routines but in their instructional delivery," said Harrison Peters, superintendent of Providence Public Schools. "We are indebted to project founders Matt Lerner and Mike Mathieu for seeing a need and taking action. And, we are so grateful to our partners at Brown University for once again stepping up to support the Providence community.” Lerner says he got the idea for Two Screens for Teachers after talking to his neighbor, whose mother is a teacher and had been struggling with a single monitor. “I realized that in a complicated world during unprecedented times, a second screen is a simple thing we can do right now to help teachers,” Lerner wrote in a blog post. A week after launch, the organization says it had 10,000 requests for monitors. By mid-October, the group had raised enough money to supply a monitor to every teacher in Seattle’s public schools. By January, they provided monitors to all San Francisco public school teachers. The organization has a waiting list of more than 170,000 teachers who have requested monitors and a goal to provide 250,000 monitors nationwide. It is working with the education-focused nonprofit DonorsChoose to raise more money to fulfill those requests. Tags COVID-19 Related news: News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees News and Events Student voices shine as Brown commemorates Class of 2022 May 29, 2022 In a sunny, spirited celebration, three Brown graduating seniors addressed Class of 2022 members, encouraging their fellow graduates to honor their roots while forging new paths ahead. Read Article Open details for Student voices shine as Brown commemorates Class of 2022 News and Events Brown confers nine honorary doctorates May 29, 2022 During Commencement and Reunion Weekend, the University bestowed honorary degrees on U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Dr. Seth Berkley of the Vaccine Alliance, recording artist Shaggy and six other accomplished leaders. Read Article Open details for Brown confers nine honorary doctorates Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Alumni-led nonprofit donates monitors to Providence teachers in name of Brown professor Open details for Alumni-led nonprofit donates monitors to Providence teachers in name of Brown professor Bookmark this Page