Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Biotechnology (MS) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Medicine Department(s) Biomedical Sciences In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Master of Science in Biotechnology program in the College of Medicine will prepare students to function in the industrial biotechnology environment. This program is designed to give students broad knowledge and training in the scientific and practical aspects of biotechnology. It involves innovative, hands-on and multidisciplinary learning approaches to educate and train students in scientific aspects of biotechnology. The courses and research training required of all students in this program are designed to develop independent thinking, teamwork and communication skills, which are highly desirable in the biotechnology industry. Students will be provided an industrial perspective and an understanding of product development at the same time as they are trained in the biotechnology techniques required for such development. What makes this program unique is the focus on practical training offered to graduate students through master's thesis research in molecular biotechnology to perform jobs in a laboratory environment that require scientific talent. Request Information View Full Description Application Deadlines Domestic International Fall January 1 Fall January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Agricultural Research Director Anatomy Professor Bacteriology Professor Biochemistry Professor Biologist Botany Professor Bryologist Embryologist Embryology Professor Geochemical Manager Geophysical Manager Microbiology Professor Ocean Program Administrator Osteologist Paleobotanist Phytopathologist Plant Etiologist Zoology Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Medicine programs Masters Biotechnology (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Biotechnology (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Science in Biotechnology program in the College of Medicine will prepare students to function in the industrial biotechnology environment. This program is designed to give students broad knowledge and training in the scientific and practical aspects of biotechnology. It involves innovative, hands-on and multidisciplinary learning approaches to educate and train students in scientific aspects of biotechnology. The courses and research training required of all students in this program are designed to develop independent thinking, teamwork and communication skills, which are highly desirable in the biotechnology industry. Students will be provided an industrial perspective and an understanding of product development at the same time as they are trained in the biotechnology techniques required for such development. What makes this program unique is the focus on practical training offered to graduate students through master's thesis research in molecular biotechnology to perform jobs in a laboratory environment that require scientific talent. Program Prerequisites A bachelor's degree in Biological Sciences or related area. Applicants who hold a BS degree in unrelated fields are expected to have the equivalent of 16 semester hours in biological sciences including a course in general microbiology, biochemistry or molecular biology or cell biology, plus one year of organic chemistry, one year of physics, basic university mathematics and statistics, and laboratory skills equivalent to the minimum required of our own undergraduates. Minor deficiencies may be remedied after acceptance by enrollment at the first opportunity in an appropriate course. Degree Requirements Required Courses 21 - 22 Total Credits Complete all of the following Core Complete all of the following Complete at least 1 of the following: MCB5722C - Methods in Biotechnology (4) BSC6407C - Laboratory Methods in Molecular Biology (3) Complete the following: BSC6432 - Biomedical Sciences I (5) BSC6433 - Biomedical Sciences II (5) BSC6431 - Practice of Biomedical Sciences (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: PCB5527 - Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (3) BSC5418 - Tissue Engineering (3) MCB6417C - Microbial Metabolism (3) PCB5025 - Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology (3) Graduate Seminars Earn at least 2 credits from the following types of courses: Students will participate in at least two graduate seminar courses that will prepare them for making professional presentations with an emphasis in biotechnology. The courses will involve the participation of speakers from the biotechnology industry with emphasis on an industrial perspective on biotechnology applications and product development. MCB 6314 - Industrial Perspectives Seminar 1 Credit Hours OR MCB 6938 1 Credit Hour (1 semester only) Elective Courses 3 - 4 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete at least 1 of the following: BSC5418 - Tissue Engineering (3) BSC5436 - Biomedical Informatics : Structure Analysis (3) BSC6407C - Laboratory Methods in Molecular Biology (3) IDS5127 - Foundation of Bio-Imaging Science (3) MCB5205 - Infectious Processes (3) MCB5208 - Cellular Microbiology: Host-Pathogen Interactions (3) MCB5209 - Microbial Stress Response (3) MCB5225 - Molecular Biology of Disease (3) MCB5415 - Cellular Metabolism (3) MCB5505 - Molecular Virology (3) MCB5722C - Methods in Biotechnology (4) MCB6226 - Molecular Diagnostics (3) MCB6417C - Microbial Metabolism (3) PCB5527 - Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (3) PCB5025 - Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology (3) PCB5236 - Cancer Biology (3) PCB5238 - Immunobiology (3) PCB5596 - Biomedical Informatics: Sequence Analysis (3) PCB5709C - Laboratory Virtual Simulations in Physiology (3) PCB5834C - Advanced Human Physiology (4) PCB6528 - Plant Molecular Biology (3) PCB6595 - Regulation of Gene Expression (3) PCB5838 - Cellular and Molecular Basis of Brain Functions (3) PCB5265 - Stem Cell Biology (3) PCB5815 - Molecular Aspects of Obesity, Diabetes and Metabolism (3) ZOO5745C - Neuroanatomical Pathways and their Neurotransmitters (4) ZOO5745C - Neuroanatomical Pathways and their Neurotransmitters (4) GEB5516 - Technological Entrepreneurship (3) Student may choose: MCB 5932 - Current Topics in Molecular Biology VAR Credit Hours PCB 5937 - Special Topics: Human Endocrinology 3 Credit Hours Others: If approved by the Graduate Committee Thesis 6 Total Credits Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: MCB 6971 Students will take a minimum of six credits of thesis research (MCB 6971) to complete their research and submit their thesis specializing in biotechnology research. Students are expected to have an in-depth discussion with at least three faculty members before choosing a laboratory for thesis research. The student and the Thesis Adviser/Major Professor will jointly recommend an advisory committee comprised of at least three members. The committee composition must reflect expertise relevant to the student's thesis research and must be approved by the Graduate Committee. Students switching to change the composition of the Thesis Advisory Committee must also obtain approval from the Graduate Committee. Thesis Proposal 0 Total Credits The thesis proposal defense requirement should be met and passed successfully no later than the end of the summer of the first year in the program. Students will not be allowed to register for courses for the Fall semester of their second year until this requirement is fulfilled. The Thesis Proposal requirement includes: a written 5-page thesis proposal, a thesis proposal defense in front of the thesis committee, and questions by the thesis committee to test the student's understanding of the basic concepts in the field and relevant applications. The student will be evaluated on performance in all three sections. Should the student fail, a second opportunity will be provided within 2 weeks of the first attempt. A second failure will result in dismissal from the program. An oral thesis defense is required. The defense will be in the format of: A 50-minute presentation of the thesis work, including a 5-minute introduction A 10-minute free period for the general audience to ask questions A 1-hour closed-door examination by the Thesis Advisory Committee and the program faculty present The thesis should be of significant scope and depth such that the work has made advances in the area of biotechnology. The MS thesis research must generate sufficient quantity and quality data to support the submission of a minimum of one manuscript. Approval of the final thesis will require consent from the majority of the Program Faculty who choose to review the thesis, inclusive of the Thesis Advisory Committee. Faculty members with dissenting vote on the thesis must provide written justification. Scientific journal review criteria will be used as guidelines by the faculty to evaluate the final thesis for its appropriateness for publication in the target journal. Students will be evaluated on the progress in thesis research by the thesis advisory committee for fall and spring. Two consecutive unsatisfactory evaluations will result in dismissal from the program. Comprehensive Examination 0 Total Credits Students must pass a comprehensive exam to qualify for the Master of Science degree. Students must successfully pass an oral comprehensive examination to test the understanding of the basic concepts in the field and relevant applications. The Comprehensive Examination will be conducted during the thesis proposal defense. The exam will be administered by the thesis committee. Should the student fail this exam, a second opportunity will be provided within 2 weeks of the first attempt. A second failure will result in dismissal from the program. Independent Learning 0 Total Credits The required thesis allows the student to engage in independent learning. Grand Total Credits: 30 - 32 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. A bachelor's degree in Biological Sciences or related area. Official, competitive GRE score (taken within the last five years) or MCAT score (taken within the last three years). Three letters of recommendation. A written statement of research experience, area of interest, and immediate and long-range goals. Resume or CV Personal interviews are required. Applicants who do not have a competitive GPA, GRE, or MCAT may occasionally be accepted if there is other convincing evidence of potential for high achievement and success. Applicants who hold a BS degree in unrelated fields are expected to have the equivalent of 16 semester hours in biological sciences including a course in general microbiology, biochemistry or molecular biology or cell biology, plus one year of organic chemistry, one year of physics, basic university mathematics and statistics, and laboratory skills equivalent to the minimum required of our own undergraduates. Minor deficiencies may be remedied after acceptance by enrollment at the first opportunity in an appropriate course. Application Deadlines Biotechnology MS *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 1 Jan 1 International Applicants Jan 1 Jan 1 The Fall 2022 application deadline has been extended to: January 15, 2022 - International Applicants February 1, 2022 - Domestic Applicants *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. All students receiving assistantships must enroll full time. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida