Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Law Scholarships Student Employment Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Financial Aid Forms Financial Aid Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Home Financial Aid Step-By-Step Step-By-Step Below you will find helpful step-by-step instructions on how to complete frequently used tasks involving your financial aid. View Outstanding Requirements and Important Financial Aid Messages/Alerts Log on to your myMemphis account. Click on the Student Pages tab and then click My Finances. Under the Financial Aid Requirements section, click Messages. This will take you to your myMemphis Self-Service page. Select the appropriate aid year (Aid Year 2021-2022 for Fall 2021, Spring 2022, and Summer 2022 OR 2022-2023 Aid Year for Fall 2022, Spring 2023, and Summer 2023), then click Submit. A list of unsatisfied requirements will appear with detailed messages regarding the requirement and/or notice. Some items may have links that will direct you to forms or additional information regarding the item. Satisfied requirements will appear toward the bottom of the page under any unsatisfied requirements. Accept/Decline Your Award Offer(s) Log on to your myMemphis account. Click on the Student Pages tab and then click My Finances. Under the Financial Aid Awards section, click on the Financial Aid Awards link. NOTE: If you don't have this link/"channel," call the ITS Service Desk at 901-678-8888. Select the appropriate aid year (2021-2022 Aid Year for Fall 2021, Spring 2022, and Summer 2022) OR 2022-2023 Aid Year for Fall 2022, Spring 2023, and Summer 2023), then click Submit. Read the information under the General Information tab (note that the Accept Award Offer tab is not yet activated). Click on the Terms and Conditions tab, then scroll down to Accept (the Terms and Conditions). Click on the Accept Award Offer tab, then scroll down to review your award offers. Click on the drop down box next to your award offer(s) and select an option. NOTE: Some award offers may not have an option to accept. This can include Pell Grants, estimated awards, or awards that have already been accepted. IMPORTANT INFORMATION: If you are accepting student loans, you will need to complete a Master Promissory Note (MPN) and Entrance Counseling at www.studentaid.gov before your loans will show as anticipated aid/pay toward your account. Once completed, it may take up to four business days for the updates to fully process and for the loan to apply toward your account. Change a Loan Amount That Has Already Been Accepted/Declined If you have already accepted or declined your loan(s) and need to make an adjustment, please submit a Loan Request and Adjustment Form (LOANR). The U.S. Department of Education limits the amount of loans that students can borrow based on their dependency status and level in school. These annual limits are listed below and do not include aggregate (total) limits which may impact your eligibility. Please note that our office cannot process a request to increase your loan based on an expected grade level advancement until that advancement is official and can be confirmed in our system. This can only be done after the hours earned have been finalized and/or the transfer credits fully evaluated and added to your account. Year of Student Dependent Students Independent Students Freshman(0-29 Credit Hours) $5,500--No more than $3,500 may be in Subsidized Loans $9,500--No more than $3,500 may be in Subsidized Loans Sophomore (30-59 Credit Hours) $6,500--No more than $4,500 may be in Subsidized Loans $10,500--No more than $4,500 may be in Subsidized Loans Junior & Senior (60 Credit Hours +) $7,500--No more than $5,500 may be in Subsidized Loans $12,500--No more than $5,500 may be in Subsidized Loans Graduate N/A $20,500 Unsubsidized Loan Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.