Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU HARVie Academic Calendar Directory Search HOME About What is FAS? Dean Claudine Gay Messages from the Dean FAS Leadership Advisory Committees Advancing Racial Justice Support FAS Reports FAS Strategic Planning Core Activities Teaching and Learning Research and Discovery Student Experience Academics & Research Academic Divisions & SEAS Departments and Areas Degree Programs & Courses Centers, Institutes & Societies Libraries Museums Resources Quick Contacts Sexual & Gender-Based Harassment Policy/Resources For Faculty For Staff For Postdocs News Covid-19 Updates and Resources News HOME / ABOUT / FAS Strategic Planning Overview The Faculty of Arts and Sciences has launched a broad, three-year strategic planning process to define the structures and resources needed to support long-term excellence in teaching and research within and across its many fields and disciplines. The process puts a particular focus on a forward-looking vision for excellence in graduate education, faculty support and development, and the organization of academic communities. The FAS strategic planning process benefits from insights achieved through a number of distinct review and planning efforts across the Academic Divisions. It draws particular inspiration from the FAS Study Group, a faculty group convened in November 2020 by Edgerley Family Dean Claudine Gay, to define a vision for how to position the FAS for broad-based academic excellence, innovation and sustainability. From November 2021 through February 2022, the FAS convened nearly 200 faculty members for small group conversations to create a shared vision for the future of the FAS. The resulting vision statement for the FAS Strategic Planning Process is as follows: Vision Statement A strong, intellectually vibrant, creative FAS ready to steward the future of the liberal arts and sciences through cutting edge research and teaching. An FAS that can: Attract and retain the world's most original and compelling scholars Support faculty to achieve excellence in their teaching and research and to contribute at a high level to the University through their citizenship Attract and prepare the next generation of leaders and support them in a transformative educational experience Foster an environment of ambition, curiosity, and shared commitment to our academic mission that elicits excellence from all members of our community Simultaneously cultivate deep disciplinary expertise while promoting meaningful and novel collaboration across disciplines, departments and Schools Act quickly and efficiently to advance emerging academic directions and opportunities Ensure that individual faculty and academic units have the information they need to make well-considered choices about how to advance our academic mission Intentionally structure graduate programs around a shared understanding of student success Academic Communities Division of Arts & Humanities Steering Committee & Charge The Division of Arts & Humanities is assessing the structure of the division to ensure that the departmental organization is best equipped to support the intellectual interests and administrative needs of the community. Arts & Humanities Strategic Planning Committee Robin Kelsey, Chair, Dean of Arts & Humanities and Shirley Carter Burden Professor of Photography Glenda Carpio, Professor of English and of African and African American Studies and Chair of the Department of English Suzannah Clark, Morton B. Knafel Professor of Music and Director of the Mahindra Humanities Center Phil Deloria, Leverett Saltonstall Professor of History and Chair of the Committee on Degrees in History and Literature Kristie La, G5 in the Department of History of Art & Architecture William Lohier '23, joint concentrator in African and African American Studies and English Melissa McCormick, Professor of Japanese Art and Culture Denise Oberdan, Director of Administration for the Department of Art, Film, and Visual Studies Parimal Patil, Professor of Religion and Indian Philosophy and Chair of the Department of South Asian Studies Matt Saunders, Professor of Art, Film, and Visual Studies Jeffrey Schnapp, Carl A. Pescosolido Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures and of Comparative Literature and Faculty Director of metaLAB Raquel Vega-Duran, Senior Lecturer in Peninsular and Transatlantic Film and Literature and Chair of the Committee on Ethnicity, Migration, Rights Emily Warshaw, Director of Administration for the Committee on Theater, Dance & Media For more information please visit https://artsandhumanities.fas.harvard.edu/ah-strategic-planning-process or reach out to arts-hum@fas.harvard.edu. Division of Social Sciences Steering Committee & Charge The Division of Social Science is focused on fully optimizing and appropriately aligning the division’s departments and centers to support the core research and teaching mission of the FAS, both now and in the future. Division of Social Science Centers & Departments Steering Committee Lawrence Bobo, Chair, Dean of Social Science; W.E.B. Du Bois Professor of the Social Sciences Ann Blair, Carl H. Pforzheimer University Professor; Chair of the History Department Melani Cammett, Clarence Dillon Professor of International Affairs; Director of the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs Ryan Enos, Professor of Government Brian Farrell, Monique and Philip Lehner Professor for the Study of Latin America; Professor of Biology (former director of DRCLAS) Elaine Papoulias, Executive Director of the Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies James Robson, James C. Kralik and Yunli Lou Professor of East Asian Languages and Civilizations; William Fung Director of the Asia Center Damari Rosado, Executive Director of the Economics Department Martha Whitehead, Vice President for the Harvard Library; University Librarian; Roy E. Larsen Librarian for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Mary Waters, PVK Professor of Arts and Sciences;John L. Loeb Professor of Sociology Beverly Beatty, Administrative Dean for Social Science (ex officio) Valerie Beilenson, Senior Project Manager, FAS Dean's Office (ex officio) Mark Elliott, Mark Schwartz Professor of Chinese and Inner Asian History; Vice Provost of International Affairs (ex officio) Jennifer Shephard, Special Initiatives Program Manager, Division of Social Science (ex officio) For more information please visit https://socialscience.fas.harvard.edu/DoSS-strategic-planning or reach out to socsci@fas.harvard.edu. Division of Science Charge The Division of Science is charged with determining how to identify, promote and nurture scholarship, teaching and hiring in areas that cut across the existing departmental structure, beyond current centers and initiatives. Considerations include evaluation and selection, allocation of space and resources, and administrative support. These conversations are happening within existing faculty structures including meetings of department chairs and divisional committees. For more information please reach out to Sarah Elwell, Senior Director of Administration and Operations for Science, at sarah_elwell@harvard.edu. Faculty Support and Development Steering Committee & Charge The Faculty Workload Committee is evaluating workload expectations and distribution within and across FAS departments/areas and making recommendations to ensure greater transparency, equity, and recognition for exceptional contributions. Other areas of focus that will be part of the strategic planning process in faculty support and development include supporting faculty with families and increasing the diversity of the faculty. The Office of Faculty Affairs will support further study on those topics in the form of surveys and focus groups, as well as working directly with departments and faculty, to make recommendations. Faculty Workload Committee Cassandra Extavour, Timken Professor of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology and of Molecular and Cellular Biology Jenny Hoffman, Clowes Professor of Science Alexandra Killewald, Professor of Sociology Mary Lewis, Robert Walton Goelet Professor of French History James Robson, James C. Kralik and Yunli Lou Professor of East Asian Languages and Civilizations Ju Yon Kim, Professor of English David Parkes, George F. Colony Professor of Computer Science Nina Zipser, Chair, Dean for Faculty Affairs and Planning For more information please reach out to Lisa Mincieli, Director of Special Projects, FAS Office for Faculty Affairs at mincieli@fas.harvard.edu. Graduate Education Steering Committee & Charge The Graduate Admissions and Graduate Education (GAGE) Working Group is a representative group of faculty from the arts and humanities, social sciences, and the sciences and engineering who will consider enhancements to the graduate admissions and educational processes. The working group will consider advising, teaching, student outcomes, and institutional finances and the information gathered from these conversations will be used to develop actionable steps in how admissions slots are allocated and to outline what the PhD means in the 21st century. Graduate Admissions and Graduate Education Working Group Emma Dench, Chair, Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, McLean Professor of Ancient and Modern History and of the Classics Allen Aloise, Dean of Administration and Finance, GSAS Valerie Beilenson, Senior Project Manager, FAS Dean's Office Noel Bisson, Associate Dean of Academic Programs, GSAS Mohan Boodram, Dean for Admissions and Financial Aid, GSAS Verena Conley, Long Term Visiting Professor of Comparative Literature and Romance Languages and Literature Victoria D'Souza, Professor of Molecular and Cellular Biology Peter Girguis, Professor of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Ann Hall, Director of Communications, GSAS Matthew Liebmann, Peabody Professor of American Archaeology and Ethnology Elizabeth Lunbeck, Professor of the History of Science in Residence Catherine McKenna, Margaret Brooks Robinson Professor of Celtic Languages and Literatures Charlie Otero, Executive Assistant to the Dean, GSAS Kay Shelemay, G. Gordan Watts Professor of Music and Professor of African and African American Studies Sheila Thomas, GSAS Dean for Academic Programs and Diversity For more information please visit https://gsas.harvard.edu/gsas-admissions-and-graduate-education-planning or reach out to GSASdean@fas.harvard.edu. Alongside the above academic strategic planning efforts, there are a number of allied administrative efforts under way to ensure that our operations are effectively supporting the core teaching and research mission of the FAS. This includes efforts to reimagine budgeting led by Scott Jordan, FAS Dean for Administration and Finance. That work is structured into five working groups that will tackle (1) workforce planning, (2) space and capital planning, (3) multi-year planning, (4) the annual budget process, and (5) reporting and accountability to make recommendations that will be implemented for the FY24 budget process. For more information on this effort please contact Katherine Gates at kgates@fas.harvard.edu. A comprehensive technology landscape study is being led by Vice President and University Chief Information Officer Klara Jelinkova, who also serves as FAS Chief Information Officer. Overseen by an FAS Steering Committee, the study will produce an in-depth mapping of technology usage and needs across the FAS community, as well as strategic recommendations for a cohesive, future-facing technology ecosystem that enables the FAS's teaching and research mission. The Steering Committee, which reviews study design and data analysis, includes Professor Deidre Lynch, Dr. Chase Harrison, Professor Amanda Pallais, Professor James Waldo, Mike Holmes, Dean Mary Ann Bradley, and Dean Russ Porter. For more information or to participate in this study, please reach out to FASCIOOffice@fas.harvard.edu. For questions, comments or more information on FAS Strategic Planning, please contact fasstratplan@fas.harvard.edu. About What is FAS? Dean Claudine Gay Messages from the Dean FAS Leadership Advisory Committees Support FAS Reports Advancing Racial Justice FAS Strategic Planning Harvard University Faculty of Arts & Sciences Cambridge, MA 02138 Contact us website poll - real Help Us Improve Our Website Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement