Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Advertising / Public Relations (BA) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Sciences Department(s) Nicholson Schl of Comm & Media In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The mission of the Advertising/Public Relations program is to prepare students for careers in the widely diverse fields of advertising and public relations by providing a high-quality education to students in core values, ethics and the concepts, strategies, and techniques of strategic communication, and to promote student engagement that influences real-world experience through internships, partnerships and community involvement. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs (other than from Ad-PR Pending) and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Co-op credit can be used in the major with advisor's prior approval. School residency requirement consists of at least 24 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF Nicholson School of Communication and Media. Of the 120 hours required for graduation, 72 hours must be taken outside of the disciplines of Communication and Media Studies (Radio-TV and Journalism) represented within the Nicholson School of Communication and Media. Students electing to complete a minor must select the minor from outside the Nicholson School of Communication and Media. A maximum of three credit hours of internship may be earned in one semester. All prerequisites of courses taught within the College of Sciences will be enforced. Courses designated in 1 (General Education Program) and 2 (Common Program Prerequisites) are usually completed in the first 60 hours. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Advertising Director Advertising Executive Advertising Manager Classified Advertising Manager Interpersonal Communications Professor Journalism Professor Media Arts Professor Professor of Communication and Writing Professor of Rhetoric Promotion Manager Promotions Director Public Speaking Professor Speech Professor VP Advertising VP Promotions Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Sciences programs Bachelors Advertising / Public Relations (BA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The mission of the Advertising/Public Relations program is to prepare students for careers in the widely diverse fields of advertising and public relations by providing a high-quality education to students in core values, ethics and the concepts, strategies, and techniques of strategic communication, and to promote student engagement that influences real-world experience through internships, partnerships and community involvement. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs (other than from Ad-PR Pending) and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Co-op credit can be used in the major with advisor's prior approval. School residency requirement consists of at least 24 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF Nicholson School of Communication and Media. Of the 120 hours required for graduation, 72 hours must be taken outside of the disciplines of Communication and Media Studies (Radio-TV and Journalism) represented within the Nicholson School of Communication and Media. Students electing to complete a minor must select the minor from outside the Nicholson School of Communication and Media. A maximum of three credit hours of internship may be earned in one semester. All prerequisites of courses taught within the College of Sciences will be enforced. Courses designated in 1 (General Education Program) and 2 (Common Program Prerequisites) are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following The following courses, specifically identified in the preceding General Education and Common Program Prerequisites sections, meet the Basic Core requirement - GEP: SPC1608, ECO2013, STA2014; CPP: ECO2023. These courses may be completed before or after admission to the program. The following two courses must be in progress when applying or completed before applying to the program. A grade of "C" (2.0) or better is required. If a course is in progress at the time of admission, students who do not earn a "C" or better will be removed from the program. Complete the following: ADV3008 - Principles of Advertising (3) PUR4000 - Public Relations (3) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 24 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: ADV4101 - Advertising Copywriting (3) MMC3200 - Mass Communication Law (3) MMC3630 - Social Media as Mass Communication (3) MMC4411 - Ad-PR Campaigns (3) PUR3100 - Writing for Public Relations (3) PUR3500 - Public Relations Research Methods (3) VIC3001 - Visual Communication (3) Earn at least 3 credits from the following: ADV4941 - Internship (1 - 99) PUR4941 - Internship (1 - 99) Restricted Electives 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following Select from the following after admission to the program. A maximum of three (3) credits of internship may be applied to Restricted Electives. Additional restricted electives can be taken as approved by an advisor. Earn at least 15 credits from the following: ADV3001 - Advertising Strategy (3) ADV4103 - Radio-Television Advertising (3) ADV4300 - Advertising Media Planning (3) ADV4941 - Internship (1 - 99) PUR3210 - Communication Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (3) PUR4600 - PR Strategies (3) PUR4014 - Preparing for Public Relations Certification (3) PUR4110C - Public Relations Publications (3) PUR4203 - PR/Advertising Ethics and Law (3) PUR4400 - Crisis Communication (3) PUR4801 - Public Relations Case Studies (3) PUR4941 - Internship (1 - 99) VIC4312 - Power Branding (3) Capstone Requirement 3 Total Credits Complete the following: MMC4411 - Ad-PR Campaigns (3) Grand Total Credits: 48 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida