Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Guide to Applying Comprehensive Application GuideLSAT PrepTransfer InformationTN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP)Part-Time ProgramSchedule a VisitAcademic CurriculumApply NowCheck Application Status Stats, Facts and Profile Profile and Stats OverviewClass Profile FactsheetViewbookRequest a ViewbookBragging Points Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid Overview of Costs Tuition Information Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition Payment Academic Curriculum 3+3 Programs Experiential Learning Life in Memphis Memphis-The CityNeighborhoodsHousingThe Arts SceneSportsThe Food SceneA Music TownDirections and MapsDowntown Vendors Recruiting Calendar Schedule a Visit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) FAQ ListApplication InformationLSATNotification and AcceptanceCurriculumCity of Memphis Admitted Student Information Law Bookstore Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home School of Law Admissions Estimated Tuition & Costs Estimated Tuition & Costs The value of your legal education at the University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law compares very favorably with that available at other state-assisted and private institutions. University tuition and fees are determined by the University of Memphis Board of Trustees and are subject to change each year. FIND YOUR STATE ON THE MAP TO SEE HOW AFFORDABLE MEMPHIS LAW IS FOR YOU! <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The cost of attendance for the 2021-2022 academic year (Fall & Spring Semesters) are as follows*: In-State Out-of-State Tuition & Fees $19,498* $24,294 Room & Board $10,425 $10,425 Books/Supplies $1,969 $1,969 Transportation $2,534 $2,534 Misc./Personal $3,270 $3,270 Total $38,160 $42,956 *Subject to change per University of Memphis Board of Trustees. Based on full-time enrollment for the academic year. Part-time tuition & fees are billed by the credit hour. Tuition and fees above includes a $20 per credit hour law library fee with no maximum (30 hours for entering students in the 2021-2022 academic year). Border Counties Tuition Waiver In an effort to accommodate students from neighboring counties, the University of Memphis School of Law will consider qualified non-resident students as border county residents for purposes of admission and tuition. To qualify for the Border County Tuition Waiver, students must document their permanent residence in one of the five counties listed below. This tuition waiver is determined primarily from information provided on the application for admission to the law school. The School of Law Admissions Office may require applicants to submit additional documentation. Questions about eligibility for the Border County Tuition Waiver should be directed to the Law School Admissions Office. Eligible Counties include: Crittenden County, Arkansas and Desoto, Marshall, Tate & Tunica Counties in Mississippi Note: Students on non-immigrant visas are not eligible for the Border County Tuition Wavier Confirmation Applicants selected for the entering class will be extended an offer of acceptance in writing. Applicants who choose to accept the offer must confirm their acceptance by April 13th or, in the case of an applicant who is accepted after April 1, within two weeks of receipt of notification. A $250 seat deposit is required of all accepted students regardless of residency. $200 of the deposit is applied towards fall tuition and $50 is an orientation fee. This deposit is non refundable. An applicant who does not confirm and/or pay the seat deposit within the deadline specified in the acceptance letter will forfeit his or her seat in the entering class. A mandatory orientation and registration program for entering students is held each fall prior to the beginning of classes. Details concerning the orientation session are sent to accepted students in late spring. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/13/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.