Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Forms, releases, and accounts Parent notification and student privacy FERPA for parents and families The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), is a federal law that governs the use of, and limits access to student educational records. Students have full access to their academic records by logging into their MyUW account, but access is limited or restricted to others. Each office has an individual process to authorize users to view student information. For parents and families interested in learning more about access to their student’s academic, financial, health, housing and dining records, please review the following information with your student. Academic records Students can access their grades and academic information by logging on to MyUW.edu. For more information, visit the Office of the University Registrar’s website, or during our office hours Monday through Friday, 10 AM–12 PM and 1 PM–4 PM, either in person at the Registration Office (225 Schmitz Hall, Seattle, WA 98195) or by phone: 206-543-8580. Students may also do this online by completing the Release of Records Request form. Tuition, fees and financial aid Students and families paying tuition and fees or looking for tuition statements or 1098-T tax forms, please visit the Office of Student Fiscal Services Students and families seeking information regarding financial aid eligibility and award process, applications, Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and Washington Application for State Financial Aid (WASFA), please visit the Office of Student Financial Aid Authorizing users Students will need to fill out an Information Release Authorization to authorize parents and families to access their UW tuition billing and financial aid accounts. Students may authorize access up to five individuals to receive billing and financial aid information via online, phone and in-person. Please be advised that this information will need to be updated each year. When students grant access to financial information, an email will be sent to newly authorized users with instructions for accessing the information. In order for authorized users to access student account information, they will need to know the student’s 7-digit ID number. Authorized users will have access to a modified version of the student’s MyUW page, including the online tuition bill, and their own password. These authorized users will receive email alerts when the online tuition statement is ready for viewing. Once your student completes the information release form, you will be able to access their tuition statement through the Parent login. For additional questions on tuition payments, please contact the Student Fiscal Services team 206-543-4694 or sfshelp@uw.edu Financial Aid Tuition Housing and dining accounts Authorizing users Students need to log onto their MyHFS account (NetID required) and provide access for up to two individuals to view their account information. This authorization allows individuals to log in to their student’s housing statement to review charges make changes and payments to the student’s housing and dining accounts. Make a payment Whether or not your are authorized on your student’s account, you may make payments via the HFS Parents and families payment page. Communication All communications regarding housing are emailed directly to students via their UW email accounts. Authorized users will receive an email when billing notifications are sent to students. Questions Contact HFS: at hfsinfo@uw.edu or 206-543-4059 if you have any questions related to on on-campus housing and dining. Housing & Dining Hall Health Center Releasing medical information to parents Students have the ability to authorize individuals to access all or specific parts of their medical record. Forms parents must sign for minor students If your student is under the age of 18 at beginning of their first year, a parent or guardian must provide consent, along with signing a financial agreement and privacy practices statement, for your student to receive health care from Hall Health/UW Medicine. Health insurance All new students and their families should complete this insurance checklist and worksheet to learn about their benefits and network of providers. Families who do not have insurance coverage in Washington State can learn about how to apply for insurance here. Additional authorizations For a complete list of forms, please visit the Husky Health & Well-being Website, call 206-685-1011 or email hhpccweb@uw.edu. Medical UW Counseling Center The UW Counseling Center is staffed by psychologists and mental health counselors who provide brief developmentally-based counseling and crisis intervention services to currently-enrolled UW students. There is no charge for most counseling services. In addition, the Counseling Center provides consultation to faculty, staff, or parents who may be concerned about a student’s well-being. Authorizing Users While visiting the Counseling Center students may choose to authorize individuals, using the Release of Information Form, to access their records or talk with their counselor. Students must fill out the form in person at the Counseling Center. Additional information relating to student counseling services is available from: UW Counseling Center 401 Schmitz Hall, Box 355830, Seattle, WA 98195 Phone: 206-543-1240 University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA