Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE OTOLARYNGOLOGY,HEAD AND NECK SURGERY OTOLARYNGOLOGY,HEAD & NECK SURGERY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 OTOHN 498 Undergraduate Thesis (*, max. 35) Student works directly with department faculty in selecting a suitable area for laboratory or clinical research in the area of otolaryngology, and develops a thesis for recognition. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 498 OTOHN 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 35) Research opportunities offered under direction in the area of otolaryngology. (Twelve weeks.) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 499 OTOHN 501 P-Preceptorship in Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery (1, max. 12) One morning a week for a total of 30 hours per quarter spent observing patient care in either inpatient or outpatient settings at the University of Washington Medical Center; associated readings. Prerequisite: first- or second-year medical student standing. Coordinator: OTOHNS office. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 501 OTOHN 600 Independent Study or Research (1-3, max. 24) Independent study or research in otolaryngology conducted under the direction of one or more instructors. Prerequisite: permission of department and sponsoring faculty member. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 600 OTOHN 670 Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery - Subinternship (*, max. 16) Provides medical students exposure to an immersive educational experience in otolaryngology. Sub-interns function as members of the surgical team, participating in outpatient clinics, inpatient care, emergency procedures, and the operating room. Prerequisite: clinical rotations in General Surgery and Internal Medicine. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 670 OTOHN 675 P-Otolaryngology Clerkship Bozeman, MT (4-8, max. 8) Surgical subspecialty of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery is structured to allow broad introduction to breadth of specialty. Students see patients in clinic, join inpatient rounds, and have an opportunity to go to the operating room. Prerequisite: third or fourth year medical student; recommended: patient-care courses in internal medicine or surgery. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 675 OTOHN 676 P-Otolaryngology Clerkship Jackson Hole WY (4-8, max. 8) Introduction to surgical subspecialty of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. Structured to allow broad introduction to breadth of specialty. Students see patients in clinic, join impatient rounds, and have an opportunity to go to the operating room. Prerequisite: Completion of Internal Medicine or Surgery required third year clerkship is strongly recommended, third or fourth year medical student standing. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 676 OTOHN 677 P-Otolaryngology Clerkship Harborview (4, max. 24) Introduction to surgical subspecialty of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. Structured to allow broad introduction to breadth of specialty. Students see patients in clinic, join impatient rounds, and have an opportunity to go to the operating room. Prerequisite: Completion of Internal Medicine or Surgery required third year clerkship is strongly recommended, third or fourth year medical student standing. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 677 OTOHN 679 P-Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery Clerkship - Missoula (4/8, max. 24) M. Whipple Introduction to surgical subspecialty of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. Students see patients in clinic, join inpatient rounds, have an opportunity to go to operating room. Prerequisite: human biology series. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 679 OTOHN 680 P-Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery Clerkship - UWMC (4/8, max. 24) Introduction to surgical subspecialty of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. Structured to allow broad introduction to breadth of specialty. Students see patients in clinic, join inpatient rounds, have an opportunity to go to operating room. Rotation at UWMC. Prerequisite: human biology series. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 680 OTOHN 681 APC -Otolaryngology Clerkship - Harborview (8, max. 24) Introduction to surgical subspecialty of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. Structured to allow broad introduction to breadth of specialty. Students see patients in clinic, join impatient rounds, and have an opportunity to go to the operating room. Prerequisite: Internal Medicine or Surgery required third year clerkship is strongly recommended, third or fourth year medical student standing. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 681 OTOHN 682 P-Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery Clerkship - VA (4/8, max. 24) Introduction to surgical subspecialty of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. Structured to allow broad introduction to breadth of specialty. Students see patients in clinic, join impatient rounds, and have an opportunity to go to the operating room. Prerequisite: human biology series. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 682 OTOHN 683 P-Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery Clerkship - Madigan (*, max. 8) Individual externship training at an outpatient clinic, where visits average twelve hundred per month, supplemented by inpatient assignments. Students may reside at the hospital during externship, using facilities of bachelor officer quarters and hospital mess. (Two or four weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: completion of human biology series. Instructors: (Madigan Army Medical Center) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 683 OTOHN 684 P-Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery Clerkship - Seattle Children's (4/8, max. 24) Introduction to surgical subspecialty of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. Structured to allow broad introduction to breadth of specialty. Students see patients in clinic, join impatient rounds, and have an opportunity to go to the operating room. Prerequisite: human biology series. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 684 OTOHN 685 P-Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery Clerkship - Boise (4/8, max. 24) Introduction to surgical subspecialty of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. Structured to allow broad introduction to breadth of specialty. Students see patients in clinic, join inpatient rounds, have an opportunity to go to operating room. Prerequisite: human biology series. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 685 OTOHN 686 P-Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery Clerkship - Greater Seattle Private Practice (4) Provides exposure to all aspects of patient care through a private practice setting. The student is exposed to the outpatient clinic and operating room procedures with daily directed contact with one attending faculty member. Contact administrator to arrange rotation. Prerequisite: permission of course director. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 686 OTOHN 687 P-Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery Clerkship - Spokane (4/8, max. 24) Introduction to surgical subspecialty of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. Structured to allow broad introduction to breadth of specialty. Students see patients in clinic, join impatient rounds, and have an opportunity to go to the operating room. Prerequisite: human biology series. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 687 OTOHN 688 P-Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery Clerkship - Anchorage (4/8, max. 24) Introduction to surgical subspecialty of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. Structured to allow broad introduction to breadth of specialty. Students see patients in clinic, join impatient rounds, and have an opportunity to go to the operating room. Prerequisite: human biology series. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 688 OTOHN 689 P-Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery Clerkship - Laramie (4/8, max. 24) P. Johnson Introduction to surgical subspecialty of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. Structured to allow broad introduction to breadth of specialty. Students see patients in clinic, join inpatient rounds, have an opportunity to go to operating room. Prerequisite: Human biology series. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 689 OTOHN 697 P-Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery - Away Externship (*, max. 8) By specific arrangement. Special clerkship, externship, or research opportunities are at times made available at institutions other than the University of Washington. Prospective students obtain a special assignment form from the dean's office at least one month before preregistration. Prerequisite: permission of clerkship director. Instructors: Fultran Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 697 OTOHN 699 P-Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery Clerkship - WWAMI (4/8, max. 8) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships may be available at institutions other than the University of Washington located within the WWAMI region. Prerequisite: permission of department. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OTOHN 699 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022