COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Kansas Kids @ GEAR UP Section Menu Kansas Kids @ GEAR UP Regions Contact Scholarships Educational Resources High School Senior Resources Employment KKGU.org Wichita State University’s Kansas Kids @ GEAR UP (Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs) is a college access program that is federally funded through the U.S. Department of Education designed to help students in foster care prepare for post-secondary education. KKGU offers a variety of free services to participants that help them gear up for a postsecondary education. Services include college exploration and visits, academic skill building, career exploration, mentoring, life skill building, ACT / SAT workshops, financial literacy, financial aid workshops, program orientation, scholarship opportunities, summer programs, educational field trips, recognition ceremonies for students and teachers, college portfolio preparation and quarterly newsletters. iGRAD iGRAD, a Keys for Networking educational program, helps Kansas youth 14 and older track placement history and secure records. Using an online database to ease communication between schools and providers, iGRAD provides interventions for risk factors that create barriers to educational success. iGRAD is funded by Kansas Kids @ GEAR UP. Keys for Networking, who manages the online database, also provides services to children and adolescents who have behavioral, education, mental health, physical health and substance abuse problems. Contact Us Learn more about KKGU and get in touch with the central and regional offices. Contact KKGU Eligibility Kansas Kids @ GEAR UP is a U.S. Department of Education funded program with Wichita State University as the administrator of this program. Children in foster care are given top priority for services. In order to be eligible for Kansas Kids @ GEAR UP, students must: Be in foster care and attending a middle or high school in the region, OR be currently in state custody and attending a middle or high school in the region. Applications KKGU Program Apply to KKGU Scholarships Apply for a KKGU scholarship Learn more about KKGU scholarships Regions KKGU is a statewide program that branches out into six regions that provide educational resources to help middle and high school students succeed. We work to increase the number of students in foster care who graduate from high school fully prepared for enrollment in postsecondary education. Kansas Kids @ GEAR UP regions Student Help High School Senior Resources Educational Resources Program Features Academic Year These components augment instruction provided by schools and foster care facilities. Activities include: mentoring, counseling, workshops and visits to postsecondary institutions and community businesses. These visits reinforce our student's educational pursuits. Student's progress in instruction, mentoring, and workshops is assessed monthly. Summer Programs Summer activities allow students to keep up with classmates, advance skills, build confidence and progress toward their goals. Postsecondary prep, mentorships, reading, math, English, career and computer instruction are offered. Students are encouraged to apply for TRiO, Health Careers Opportunity and other programs that support their development Saturday Activities Saturday schedules include college and career field trips. Staff and volunteers offer innovative instruction to excite students about education. Special banquets and sessions with guest presenters are held for academic and social enrichment, as well as to recognize individual student and collective achievements. College Prep Planning packets with instructions on college admissions and financial aid are designed for middle and high school students. Parents and students receive technical assistance—one-on-one and in groups—for test prep, college application completion, developing essays and strategies for handling college interviews. Mentorships Through mentoring, students are able to interact with individuals who support and encourage their educational, career and personal goals. Project and partner agencies provide training to mentors, who include university students and community volunteers. Cultural Activities Cultural enrichment activities enhance student social and emotional growth. These activities integrate social and cultural events, allowing students a sense of pride in their cultural backgrounds and an understanding for other populations. More Information Program Surveys Submit your feedback using one of the following downloadable forms. Parent survey Student survey Program Goals and Objectives Goal: Increase the academic performance and preparation for postsecondary education for GEAR UP students. Objective 1: 80% of students enrolled in secondary school are on track for graduation at the end of each grade. Objective 2: Each year the number of KKGU students who: pass Pre-Algebra in 8th grade, pass Algebra 1 in 9th grade,and who take 2 years of math beyond Algebra 1 will increase by 10%. Goal: Increase the rate of high school graduation and participation in postsecondary education for GEAR UP students. Objective 3: Each project year, 70% of participating high school seniors will complete a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent and 65% will enroll in a postsecondary program. Objective 4: Of the graduating seniors who enroll in college, 70%, who place into college-level Math and English will not need college remediation courses. Goal: Increase GEAR UP students' and their families' knowledge of postsecondary education options, preparation and financing. Objective 5: Each project year, 70% of students complete the ACT by grade 12 and 80% of students complete the FASFA in grade 12. Program Partners Wichita State University TRiO Communications Upward Bound TRiO Disability Support Services TRiO Educational Opportunities Centers TRiO McNair Scholars Program TRiO Student Support Services TRiO Talent Search / Project Discovery TRiO Upward Bound Math / Science TRiO Upward Bound / Wichita Prep TRiO Veterans Upward Bound Office of Disability Services Kansas Board Of Regents Kansas State Department of Education DCCCA, Inc. Kansas Department for Children and Families KVC Health Systems St. Francis Community Services 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©