Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Professional Health Education Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Professional Health Education Certificate (Graduate) Apply Visit Request More Info Professional Health Education Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Professional Health Education Graduate Certificate Program The Professional Health Education Graduate Certificate in the College of Education and Human Development at Temple prepares students with the skills needed as an educator in professional health education programs, including programs such as dentistry, medicine, pharmacy and science. This 12-credit program is designed for healthcare professionals who are seeking expertise in teaching and learning theories and case-based instruction methods. The Professional Health Education Graduate Certficate program was created in conjunction with faculty and administrators from the Katz School of Medicine, the Kornberg School of Dentistry, and the College of Education and Human Development. Through the graduate certificate program, you’ll develop critical decision-making and problem-solving skills through collaboration and networking with other leaders in the industry. Learn to apply evidence-based healthcare principles, effective coaching techniques and group facilitation to a diverse population, and develop teaching plans that can be applied to all students. Program Outcomes Classes are taught by faculty experts from a rotation of health professional schools to ensure the most medically applicable curriculum. Learning outcomes are based on your field of study and include the following. Applying evidence-based healthcare principles to teaching future professionals. Designing, presenting and assessing case-based instructional modules. Implementing adult learning theories in both the didactic and clinical. Performing effective coaching techniques. Providing effective group facilitation and consultation. Program Format & Curriculum All Professional Health Education Graduate Certificate coursework will take place online or as in-person courses at the Temple University Center City campus. The certificate should take a minimum of one academic year to complete and students have up to six years to complete the program. The graduate program's curriculum includes the following required courses. Case-based Instruction and Learning Facilitating Adult Learning Fundamental Interpersonal Techniques for Healthcare Professionals Group Facilitation and Consultation Learn more about the Professional Health Education Graduate Certificate program courses. Related Graduate Degrees Professional Health Education MSEd Careers The Professional Health Education Graduate Certificate prepares students for educator and leadership roles in healthcare institutions and organizations. Graduates are ready to provide undergraduate and graduate health education programs in a variety of settings including the following. Academic medical centers Public and private hospitals Universities and other centers of higher education The College of Education and Human Development offers a range of career development services to its students. You can also visit the university Career Center for support during your job or internship search. Drop in for a short visit or schedule a 30-minute coaching session to discuss components of your professional profile, including your résumé and LinkedIn presence. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors The College of Education and Human Development graduate advising staff will provide academic advising to students in the Professional Health Education Graduate Certificate program. Administration from each of the healthcare-related schools will be available for additional support. Program Contact For more information about the Professional Health Education Graduate Certificate program, contact the following staff member. Paul C. Jones, assistant professor, is the program coordinator for the Professional Health Education program. Phone: 215-204-3341 Email: paul.jones@temple.edu ED-PHED-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Professional Health Education Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info