Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller News & Events Home » Why Scheller? » Georgia Tech Community » Diversity News Menu Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News May 12, 2022 Meet the Founders of Scheller: Peter Chung’s Restaurant Brings Seoul Food to AtlantaRead more April 08, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Nikita DaniRead more 2022 2021 2020 Archives May 12, 2022 Meet the Founders of Scheller: Peter Chung’s Restaurant Brings Seoul Food to Atlanta In honor of Asian American and Pacific Islander Month, learn about Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business undergraduate alum and entrepreneur Peter Chung, co-founder of the Mukja Korean Fried Chicken restaurant, and how he’s bringing awareness of Korean food and culture to Atlanta. Read more April 08, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Nikita Dani As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Nikita Dani. Read more March 28, 2022 Benjamin Barnett Named Poets&Quants 2022 Best & Brightest Business Major Undergraduate Benjamin Barnett is selected as P&Q’s 2022 Best & Brightest Business Majors for Undergraduates. Read more March 28, 2022 Kara Pomerantz Named Poets&Quants 2022 Best & Brightest Business Major Undergraduate Kara Pomerantz is selected as P&Q’s 2022 Best & Brightest Business Majors for Undergraduates. Read more March 16, 2022 "A Rising Tide Lifts All Ships”: How Georgia Tech’s Women in Business Clubs Empower Students In honor of Women’s History Month, Scheller shares the stories of two of Georgia Tech women’s-focused clubs: Society of Women in Business for undergraduates and Women in Business for MBA students. Read more March 08, 2022 Georgia Tech Scheller Dean Alavi Hosts Conversation with Chanel Frazier The Dean’s Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Speaker Series hosted BlackRock’s Chanel Frazier in a discussion around empowerment and leadership. Read more March 07, 2022 A Journey at the Intersection of Business, Technology, and Leadership: An Interview With Dean Maryam Alavi In honor of Women’s History Month, Georgia Tech Scheller MBA student Nammu Kumar interviewed Dean Maryam Alavi to learn about her journey as a leader in business and technology and the lessons she has learned along the way. Read more February 28, 2022 2022 René A. Simon Fellowship Awarded to Francesca Sally, First Black Graduate Business Council President Georgia Tech Scheller MBA student Francesca Sally has been awarded the René A. Simon Fellowship, which was created to support students who serve in their communities. Francesca is the first Black president of the Graduate Business Council (GBC) in the history of the College. Read more February 22, 2022 Meet the Black Founders of Scheller: Charles Spencer’s NSF-Funded Technology Teaches STEM Using DJ Equipment In honor of Black History Month, the Georgia Tech Scheller College is celebrating our Black student and alumni entrepreneurs. Evening MBA alum and entrepreneur Charles Spencer founded his education technology company ThinkLive! to help students engage with STEM education using DJ equipment. Read more February 15, 2022 Meet the Black Founders of Scheller: Entrepreneur Kristen Daniel’s Latest Venture Brings Music Samples to Game Night In honor of Black History Month, the Georgia Tech Scheller College is celebrating our Black student and alumni entrepreneurs. MBA alum and strategist Kristen Daniel shares her story of launching Heard It All Before, a new music samples game experience. Read more February 10, 2022 Meet the Black Founders of Scheller: Connor Ford’s Journey as a Young Tech Entrepreneur Meet the Black Founders of Scheller: Undergraduate alumni Connor Ford talks his journey as the founder of Spirit and one of the first employees at Infinite Giving. Read more February 07, 2022 Georgia Tech Scheller Dean Alavi Hosts Conversation with Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Pioneer Nzinga Shaw Dean Alavi hosts Nzinga Shaw, as she discusses lessons learned from her experience creating diversity, equity, and inclusive programs within organizations. Read more February 02, 2022 Meet the Black Founders of Scheller: Entrepreneur Kathryn Smith Drives Progress for Black- and Women-Owned Businesses In honor of Black History Month, the Georgia Tech Scheller College is celebrating our Black student and alumni entrepreneurs. MBA alum Kathryn Smith shares her entrepreneurial journey launching two companies, Walton Birch LLC and Black Lady Business School. Read more February 01, 2022 Meet the Black Founders of Scheller: Aboubacar Barrie and His Fashion Brand Forenaire In honor of Black History Month, the Georgia Tech Scheller College is celebrating our Black student and alumni entrepreneurs. We sat down with undergraduate Aboubacar Barrie to learn about his fashion brand Forenaire and experience as a young entrepreneur. Read more January 13, 2022 Celebrating Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day: Reflections From the Georgia Tech Scheller Community Members of the Georgia Tech Scheller community reflect on what Martin Luther King Jr. Day means to them. Read more November 10, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Dean Alavi Hosts Kali Beyah, Global Chief Talent Officer of Huge, Inc. In the latest Dean Maryam Alavi’s Speaker Series session, Kali Beyah, Global Chief Talent Officer of Huge, Inc., talks about three ways individuals can increase awareness and impact of diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives in their work environment. Read more November 04, 2021 Georgia Tech Alumni Association Honors Scheller Alumna Jacquelyn Renée Schneider With Outstanding Young Alumni Award The Georgia Tech Alumni Association chooses Scheller alumnae Jacquelyn Renee Schneider as “Outstanding Young Alumni” as part of the 2021 Gold & White Honors program. Read more October 13, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Students Launch Latin American Club The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business MBA is launching a Latin American Club, with an inaugural event on Friday, October 15 featuring a student and alumni panel. Read more October 07, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Increases in Diversity: Fall 2021 Incoming Class Profiles The Georgia Tech Scheller Full-time, Evening, and Executive MBA programs saw an increase in diversity for the Fall 2021 incoming class, with an increase in women, underrepresented minorities, and veterans represented in the classroom. Read more September 22, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Team Wins Second Place at the National Black MBA Association Graduate Case Competition Georgia Tech Scheller Full-time MBA students Angel Daniels, Kerem Eroglu, Marshall Johnson, and Felicia Lamonthe placed second at the National Black MBA Association Graduate Case Competition. Read more September 21, 2021 Seven Scheller Community Members Receive 2021 “Faces of Inclusive Excellence” Recognition Georgia Tech recognizes seven Scheller College of Business community members as champions of diversity, equity, and inclusivity across campus. Read more September 15, 2021 Dean Maryam Alavi Hosts Conversation with Shan Cooper, Executive Director of the Atlanta Committee for Progress Shan Cooper, executive director for the Atlanta Committee for Progress, talks about her experiences in helping Atlanta progress in diversity, equity, and inclusion. Read more September 08, 2021 Three Scheller College of Business Graduates of the Inclusive Leaders Academy Reflect on Their Experience Three Scheller College of Business staff members recently graduated from the Inclusive Leaders Academy, a professional leadership and legacy development program for managers at Georgia Tech. Read more August 26, 2021 14 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Students Awarded Forté MBA Fellowship for Women The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business has awarded the Forté MBA Fellowship to 14 of the best and brightest women in the Full-time MBA program. These fellowships provide resources for students while they pursue internships, post-MBA employment, and career goals. Read more June 22, 2021 Scheller Pride: The Origins and Hopes of Georgia Tech Scheller’s LGBTQIA+ Club Learn about the origins of Scheller Pride, a student-led club created by MBA alum Alex Ortiz, and the plans current president Angel Daniels has for its future. Read more June 01, 2021 ‘Dreams Like This Are Possible at Georgia Tech’: Meet Executive MBA Alum and Entrepreneur Rebekah Vepraskas Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA alumna and counseling professional Rebekah Vepraskas discusses the motivation, challenges, and rewards of going back to school for an MBA and her entrepreneurial work helping CEOs and athletes achieve peak performance. Read more May 19, 2021 How to Identify and Change Bias in AI Development and Application Georgia Tech Scheller Professor Deven Desai explores how to combat language bias in AI development in his article for the MIT Sloan Management Review. Read more April 23, 2021 Blacks in Business, Net Impact, and Women in Business: Scheller MBA Clubs Discuss Allyship The Blacks in Business, Net Impact, and Women in Business MBA clubs at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business cohosted an event on allyship where groups discussed submitted student experiences. Read more April 22, 2021 12th Annual Ideas to Serve (I2S) Competition Drives Discovery and Solutions with Social Impact The Institute for Leadership and Social Impact at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business announces the 12th annual Ideas to Serve (I2S) Competition winners for 2021. Read more March 29, 2021 Devika Dutt Named Poets&Quants 2021 Best & Brightest Business Major Georgia Tech Scheller Undergraduate Devika Dutt has been selected as a 2021 Poets&Quants Best & Brightest Business Major. Read more March 25, 2021 Breaking Barriers: Meet the First Women of Scheller Learn about the first woman dean, PhD graduate, and GBC president of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business and how they broke barriers to pave the way for current students. Read more March 22, 2021 Choose to Challenge: Three Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Alumnae and Their Leadership Journeys Three Georgia Tech Scheller MBA alumnae who have risen the ranks in the traditionally male-dominated industries share their perspective on the lessons they’ve learned. Read more March 17, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller’s MBA Pro Bono Consulting Practicum Expands Social Impact As a part of Georgia Tech Scheller’s pro bono consulting practicum, MBA students have the opportunity to do impactful work with mission-driven organizations, like Project Greer Street. Read more March 16, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Community Gathers Virtually for Third Annual International Women’s Day Brunch In celebration of International Women’s Day, women and allies in the Georgia Tech Scheller MBA community gathered for a virtual event about board engagement. Read more March 08, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Dean Maryam Alavi Hosts Discussion on Women and Leadership with Carol Tomé, CEO of UPS In honor of Women’s History Month, Dean Maryam Alavi of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business hosted a discussion with Carol Tomé, CEO of UPS, on leadership and people empowerment. Read more March 08, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller’s Evening MBA Program Enrolls Largest Ever Number of Women in an Academic Year The Georgia Tech Scheller Evening MBA program has made history by enrolling the largest number of women ever in a single academic year. Read more February 26, 2021 The René A. Simon Fellowship: Georgia Tech Scheller Alumnus Funds Support for MBA Students Who Serve Georgia Tech Scheller MBA alumnus René A. Simon has created a fellowship to support MBA students who exemplify service excellence, particularly those who participate in the Scheller Blacks in Business Club. Read more February 18, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Grad Rachel Langston: One of Only Three Women to be Buzz, the Georgia Tech Mascot Georgia Tech Scheller graduate Rachel Langston (BSBA ’20) talks about what it was like to be Buzz, Georgia Tech’s official mascot, for over two years – one of only three women who have fulfilled the role. Read more February 15, 2021 Dean Maryam Alavi Hosts Annual Georgia Tech Scheller Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Panel The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business brought together D&I leaders from Delta Air Lines, The Home Depot, and UPS for its annual Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Panel. Read more February 01, 2021 Community, Empowerment, and a Safe Space: The Story of Georgia Tech Scheller’s Blacks in Business Club Learn about the beginnings of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Blacks in Business club and the impact it’s had in cultivating community and important conversations over the last five years. Read more January 13, 2021 Honoring Martin Luther King Jr. Day: Perspectives From the Georgia Tech Scheller Community Georgia Tech Scheller students, faculty, staff, and alumni share what Martin Luther King Jr. Day means to them, the traditions they observe, and how they plan on celebrating this year. Read more January 06, 2021 Georgia Tech Launches New Female Founders Program Learn about Georgia Tech’s new Female Founders Program, and the role Scheller College of Business Full-time MBA student Amanda Grupp played in launching it. Read more December 17, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller Evening MBA Students Give Back to Latino Community Through Pro Bono Consulting with Atlanta’s LaAmistad Learn how Georgia Tech Scheller Evening MBA students give back through their pro bono consulting practicum with LaAmistad, a non-profit organization helping the Latino community in Atlanta. Read more November 30, 2020 Scheller College Dean Maryam Alavi Hosts Conversation on Racial Justice with Institute Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion’s Pearl Alexander Scheller College Dean Maryam Alavi hosts a conversation with Pearl Alexander, executive director of Diversity, Inclusion, and Engagement at Georgia Tech. Read more November 05, 2020 Creating and Sustaining D&I Programs in Organizations: Three Pieces of Advice from Lori George Billingsley, Coca-Cola’s Chief D&I Officer Georgia Tech Scheller’s Dean Maryam Alavi speaks with Lori George Billingsley about Coca-Cola’s diversity and inclusion initiatives and how individuals and companies can follow their lead. Read more October 27, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Forms Diversity & Inclusion Council The Georgia Tech Scheller College Diversity & Inclusion Council has been created to foster organizational change and create equal access to opportunities for educational and professional growth and advancement. Read more October 14, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller Dean Maryam Alavi Hosts a Conversation with Ed Bastian, CEO of Delta Air Lines Dean Maryam Alavi speaks with Ed Bastian, CEO of Delta, about the company’s plan for the future, air travel in a post-Covid world, and racial equity. Read more October 12, 2020 Scheller Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Hosts Conversation on Criminal Justice Reform, Racial Disparities, and Bipartisanship The Scheller College of Business Institute for Leadership and Social Impact hosted a discussion on Georgia’s new criminal justice reform bill, racial disparities in the criminal justice system, and how bipartisanship can make a difference in the Read more September 29, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller’s MBA Programs Make Tremendous Strides in Diversity of Fall 2020 Cohorts Georgia Tech Scheller’s incoming MBA students bring expertise and experience that spans a variety of industry, educational, and cultural backgrounds. Read more September 24, 2020 2020 – 2021 Institute Diversity and Inclusion Fellow: Scheller Professor Tiffany Johnson’s New MBA Class on Work, Equity, and Wellness Associate Professor Tiffany Johnson is a new Georgia Tech Diversity & Inclusion Fellow - one of three at Scheller accepted into the program. She will undertake a project examining equity and diversity in organizations with the mind-body connection of the individual as part of a course she’ll teach in Summer 2021 for MBA students titled “Work, Equity, and Wellness.” Read more September 23, 2020 2020 – 2021 Institute Diversity and Inclusion Fellow: Scheller MBA Joshua Burr Explores Tools for Men to ‘Lean In’ for Workplace Gender Equity Full-time MBA student, Joshua Burr is a new Georgia Tech Diversity & Inclusion Fellow - one of three at Scheller accepted into the program. He wants to create a way for people, in particular men, to understand and recognize issues facing women in the workplace. Read more September 22, 2020 2020 – 2021 Institute Diversity and Inclusion Fellow: Scheller Undergraduate Hannah Sherrill Explores Expanding Women’s Roles in Team Building Scheller undergrad student Hannah Sherrill named a Georgia Tech 2020-2021 Diversity & Inclusion Fellow. Over the course of a year, she'll be studying team building environments to help women's organizations across the campus. Read more September 21, 2020 Three Scheller Community Members Chosen as Institute Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Institute Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (IDEI) and the ADVANCE program at Georgia Tech have announced the 2021 - 2021 Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Program Fellows and three members of the Scheller College of Business community have been chosen out of 150 applicants. Read more September 17, 2020 “Ask the question: ‘Who’s missing?’”: A Conversation with Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum, an award-winning educational leader, best-selling author, and noted expert on the psychology of racism recently talked with Dean Maryam Alavi of Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business on the themes of prejudice, racism, discrimination, and racial bias. Read more September 15, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller Introduces GMAT/GRE Test-Optional Policy for Fall 2021 Admissions The Full-time MBA program at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business will pilot a GMAT/GRE test optional admission process for Fall 2021 enrollment. Read more August 27, 2020 Scheller College of Business Dean’s Office and Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Partner to Host Fall 2020 Conversations on Race, Equity, and Inclusion Scheller College Dean Maryam Alavi and the Diversity & Inclusion Speaker Series is partnering with the Institute for Leadership and Social Impact (ILSI) to host an impressive line-up of speakers who will center their discussion around race, social justice, equity, and inclusion. The series runs from September to November and is open to the public. Read more August 18, 2020 Back to Business: Meet Three Incoming Scheller Full-time MBA Students Meet three of the Scheller Full-time MBA program’s incoming students with global experience and backgrounds in construction, consulting, and aerospace. Read more August 12, 2020 From Allies to Change Agents: Scheller MBA Alumnae Answer Four Key Questions in the Fight for Sustainable Racial Equity The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business (“Center”) recently held a panel discussion around the role individuals and communities have in the fight for racial equity and social justice. The conversation centered around ways individuals can elevate their levels of engagement—in conversation, in protest, and in advocacy. Read more July 07, 2020 WSB-TV Interviews Professor Timothy Halloran on Impact of Facebook Ad Pulls by Large Companies In an interview with WSB-TV, Dr. Timothy Halloran, senior lecturer of Marketing at Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business discussed the impact of corporate ads pulled from Facebook on companies, consumers, and the social media giant. Read more July 06, 2020 Five Ways Higher Education Institutions Can Fight the Effects of Racial Inequality Learn how higher ed can fight the impacts of racial inequality from Dr. Tiffany Hughes-Troutman, licensed psychologist and Director of CARE at Georgia Tech. Read more June 18, 2020 Construction, Healthcare, Beverage, and More: The Diverse Industries of Scheller’s Incoming Evening MBA Class What kind of industry experience does this year’s incoming Scheller Evening MBA class have? Meet four students who will join the program this fall. Read more June 11, 2020 Entertainment, Finance, Theology, and the Military: Learn About the Unique Backgrounds of Scheller’s Incoming Full-time MBA Class What do a film society programming manager, a financial services rep, an MA candidate in culture/theology, and an Army captain have in common? All four will be starting their life-changing journey through the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Full-time MBA program this August. Read more June 03, 2020 Resources for Antiracism in Business, Leadership, and the Community The Scheller College of Business community has created a list of articles, books, videos, podcasts, and other resources in the fight against racism and discrimination. Learn how you can help. Read more May 28, 2020 Passion, Drive, and a Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion: Meet Nona Black, Poet’s & Quants 2020 MBA to Watch Nona Black (MBA 2020), a design-minded innovator whose dream is to spoil all the dogs in the world, worked right down the street from the Scheller College of Business for a year and a half before applying to the Full-time MBA program. Now, two years later, Black has graduated from Scheller with her Full-time MBA, will be joining Capgemini Invent as a Senior Consultant, and has been named a 2020 MBA to Watch by Poets & Quants. Read more March 25, 2020 Scheller MBA Students and Alumnae Celebrate International Women’s Day at Annual Brunch In recognition of International Women’s Day, Scheller College women, both current students and alumnae from the Full-time and Evening MBA programs, gathered for an annual celebratory brunch hosted by Scheller MBA alum Jacquelyn Renée Schneider (Evening MBA, 2018). Read more March 09, 2020 Scheller College Celebrates International Women’s Day with “When Women Lead” Panel Discussion In celebration of International Women’s Day, Scheller College of Business hosted a discussion on “When Women Lead: Insights and Experience” with an esteemed panel of women leaders who have made remarkable impacts in business. Read more February 26, 2020 New Podcast on Diversity and Inclusion Highlights the Undergraduate Experience from Three Perspectives Developing diversity and inclusivity whether on college campuses, or corporate boardrooms is becoming a necessity for organizations to prosper and flourish. Neve Shah, Priyesh Shah, and James Ni join the Scheller Intersection Podcast to discuss diversity through their own experiences. Read more February 24, 2020 Scheller College Hosts Diversity and Inclusion Panel on Creating Impact and Driving Growth The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business hosted its annual Diversity and Inclusion symposium on February 13, 2020. This year’s focus was on creating impact and driving growth in business through diversity and inclusion. Read more February 05, 2020 Scheller Student Delivers a Call for Cultural Change at TEDxGeorgiaTech TEDxGeorgiaTech recently hosted the first Student Speaker Series and Scheller undergraduate student Aiman Shahab presented a talk on women inequality and gender bias in South Asian Culture. Read more September 09, 2019 Dean Alavi Presented with Award at 11th Annual Diversity Symposium At the 11th Annual Diversity Symposium, held Wednesday, September 4, 2019, Maryam Alavi, Dean, Scheller College of Business and Stephen P. Zelnak Jr. Chair, was the recipient of the prestigious 2019 Diversity Champion Faculty Award. Dean Alavi was recognized for her many contributions toward creating a diverse and inclusive community at Scheller College and Georgia Tech. Read more June 03, 2019 Sudheer Chava Discusses Capital Cost Reductions Introduced by Socially Responsible Investing Sudheer Chava Discusses Capital Cost Reductions Introduced by Socially Responsible Investing Read more April 15, 2019 Sunday’s Front Page of Atlanta Journal Constitution Profiles EXCEL at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Atlanta Journal Constitution took an in-depth look at the program, its students and accomplishments. Saturday, April 27, seven Georgia Tech students will be the first in the EXCEL (Expanding Career, Education and Leadership Opportunities) program to graduate. Read more March 27, 2019 U.S. News & World Report Features Scheller College in Business School Diversity Story The soon-to-be-released Best Business Schools 2020 issue from U.S. News & World Report features Scheller College in an article "What to Consider About Business School Diversity - MBA programs are stepping up efforts to recruit and retain women and minorities." Read more March 08, 2019 International Women’s Day Event Sparks Discussion Around Career Journeys of Two Successful Businesswomen In celebration of International Women’s Day, Scheller College of Business hosted “The Journey to the Top,” a breakfast discussion moderated by Dean Maryam Alavi featuring Senior Vice President of Home Services (retired) at The Home Depot Inc., Kelly Barrett, and President and Co-Founder of Kabbage Inc., Kathryn Petralia. Read more March 07, 2019 Diversity & Inclusion Spotlight: Kiera Patterson Kiera Patterson completed her undergraduate degree at Georgia Tech and is now a Full-time MBA student at Scheller College of Business. She's also a 2019 Georgia Tech Diversity and Inclusion Fellow. Read more March 01, 2019 Diversity & Inclusion Spotlight: Dionne Nickerson Dionne Nickerson is a Ph.D. candidate in Marketing at Scheller College of Business and Georgia Tech Diversity and Inclusion Fellow. Read more February 28, 2019 Dean Maryam Alavi Presents “Women & Leadership: An Era of Innovation & Opportunity” at Georgia Tech Diversity and Inclusion Program Dean Maryam Alavi recently led a discussion for the Georgia Tech Leading Women@Tech program. Read more February 27, 2019 Trailblazer Nzinga Shaw Shares Diversity and Inclusion Best Practices at Scheller College Trailblazer Nzinga Shaw recently shared diversity and inclusion best practices at Scheller College. Read more January 16, 2019 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Female Alumnus Promoted to Rank of Brigadier General Tina Boyd, a Scheller College of Business alumnus, was recently promoted to the rank of Brigadier General in the U.S. Army Reserve. Find out why she chose to have her promotion ceremony on Georgia Tech's campus. Read more November 13, 2018 Scheller College M.D./MBA Dual Degree Featured in Diverse: Issues of Higher Education Diverse: Issues In Higher Education profiled the Scheller College and Morehouse School of Medicine M.D./MBA dual-degree program. Read more November 09, 2018 Scheller College of Business Observes Veterans Day 2018 In recognition of Veterans Day, the Intersection Podcast sat down with three of our active duty and veteran MBA students to talk about their experiences in the military and at Scheller College and how both are helping to shape their futures. Read more September 24, 2018 White Coats and Yellow Jackets On Friday, September 21, Scheller College of Business Dean Maryam Alavi and Morehouse School of Medicine President and Dean Dr. Valerie Montgomery Rice announced a dual-degree partnership between Scheller College of Business (SCOB) and Morehouse School of Medicine (MSM) that will enable MSM M.D. students to complete their medical and business degrees in just five years. Read more September 07, 2018 Scheller College of Business MBA Programs Office Receives Diversity Champion Unit Award Scheller College’s MBA Programs Office was selected as the 2018 recipient of the Diversity Champion Unit Award and will receive the award at the Georgia Tech Diversity Symposium Awards luncheon, September 5, 2018. Read more August 03, 2018 Dean Maryam Alavi Outlines Multi-Faceted Diversity Efforts in Atlanta Business Chronicle In an editorial featured in Atlanta Business Chronicle’s July 27, 2018 Executive Education guide, Dean Maryam Alavi outlined the wide range of efforts within Scheller College of Business and throughout Georgia Tech in pursuit of a more diverse and inclusive campus. Read more June 28, 2018 A Sustainable & Socially Responsible Career I stood in the sunny atrium of the Atlanta Hilton Hotel, taking in the sights and sounds of women networking with representatives from companies and organizations sponsoring the 2018 Forté MBA Women’s Leadership Conference. The conference, hosted by the Forté Foundation from June 15-16, 2018, was advertised as an event where women could “explore career paths, meet recruiters and mentors, and hear from today’s most influential businesswomen.” When the Scheller College of Business (in which I am a second-year student in the Evening MBA Program) offered me a ticket to the conference, I jumped at the opportunity to attend. Read more June 18, 2018 Scheller Women Celebrate the Forté MBA Women’s Leadership Conference in Atlanta Each summer, hundreds of MBA women gather for Forté Foundation’s MBA Women’s Leadership Conference for career preparation, professional development, and networking. With the 2018 conference in Atlanta, Scheller College boasted over 50 attendees and contributed panelists throughout the conference weekend. Read more May 24, 2018 Gail Evans Discusses Gender Imbalance in News Media on NPR's On Point Scheller College's Gail Evans joined NPR's On Point today to discuss the gender imbalance in news media, alongside panelists from The New York Times and The Atlantic. Prior to joining Scheller College, Gail served as Executive Vice President of CNN. In the On Point panel, she noted, "What we kept discovering at CNN was behind 90% of these important men on the air, there was some woman who was the researcher, or doing the briefing paper for them, or even answering the questions when the researcher called-- but they were never in front of the camera." Read more April 06, 2018 C-Suite Executives Share Their Best Practices on Prioritizing and Embracing Diversity and Inclusion In a rapidly diversifying world, implementing diversity and inclusion practices in the workplace is not only the right thing to—it is a business imperative. To this end, Scheller College of Business recently hosted executives from The Coca Cola Company, The Home Depot, and Southern Company, so they could share how their organizations both embody and embrace the power of differences. Read more April 06, 2018 Panel of Distinguished Female Leaders Reflect on Careers in Technology and Analytics More than 70 people gathered at the Scheller College of Business on April 4th for the Women in Technology and Analytics Panel. The all-star panel was hosted by the Georgia Tech Business Analytics Club and the Business Analytics Center at Scheller College of Business. The event attracted groups from an array of Atlanta Universities, as well as representatives from Chick-fil-A, Southern Company and NCR. Read more March 29, 2018 Working Diversity, Diversifying Work: The Work Universities Must Anticipate Dr. Earl Lewis recently addressed students, faculty, staff, alumni and business leaders at the Thomas R. Williams Distinguished Lecture, a special edition of the IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more March 12, 2018 Digital Disruption Part II Explores Big Implications of Big Data The Digital Disruption Series, co-presented by Scheller College and Accenture, discusses trends in today’s ever-changing digital arena. Part II focused on big implications of big data for business, with a discussion on how data science and other technologies can solve complex problems, harness applied intelligence, create new opportunities, and innovate the way we conduct business. Read more February 09, 2018 Dean Alavi Honored in 2018 ‘Women Out Front’ Ceremony Dean Maryam Alavi of Scheller College of Business at Georgia Tech was recognized for her dedication and achievement in her industry at the 2018 Women Out Front ceremony. This honor, bestowed by the Georgia Tech women’s basketball program, celebrates women leaders who have made a significant impact in their fields and who serve as role models for young women who aspire to leadership. Read more November 17, 2017 DEAN MARYAM ALAVI NAMED WOMAN OF THE YEAR IN 2017 WOMEN IN TECHNOLOGY AWARDS Dean Maryam Alavi named Woman of the Year for mid-size educational institutions by Women in Technology Read more More Upcoming Events Jun 07 12:00 pm-1:00 pm Executive MBA Webinar Info Session Attend this webinar to learn more about Georgia Tech Scheller's Executive MBA program. Jun 09 12:00 pm-1:00 pm Full-time MBA Program Overview Webinar Attend this webinar to learn more about Georgia Tech's top-ranked Full-time MBA program and advancing your career. Jun 08 1:00 pm-2:00 pm Business Analytics Graduate Certificate Info Session Join us for an information session about the online Business Analytics Certificate at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Jun 08 12:00 pm-1:00 pm Evening MBA Admissions Tips Webinar Attend this webinar to learn more about the admissions process for Georgia Tech's most flexible MBA format, our Evening MBA program. An admissions officer will provide an overview of the admissions process and tips to help you prepare your application. Jul 08 5:30 pm-8:00 pm Executive MBA Class of 2023 Networking Event Take the opportunity to connect with your Scheller Executive MBA classmates and staff members. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures