Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School News Baylor>Baylor Law>About>News Winners of Baylor Law's Fourth Annual Transactional Law Competition, The Closer, Announced January 27, 2020 Winners of Baylor Law's Fourth Annual Transactional Law Competition, The Closer, Announced On January 17-19, students from twelve of the best transactional law programs in the country gathered at Baylor Law to participate in the most challenging transactional law competition in the country. 2020 Winners of The Closer, Allyson Fleming from The Ohio State University Michael E. Moritz College of Law (L) and Carolyn Griffith from Indiana University Maurer School of Law (R). Competition Creator and Professor of Law Beth Miller is pictured center. WACO, Texas - Carolyn Griffith from Indiana University Maurer School of Law and Allyson Fleming from The Ohio State University Michael E. Moritz College of Law were named the winners of The Closer 2020, the most challenging transactional law competition in the country. Finalists for this year's competition were Tara Mollhagen from the University of Kansas School of Law and Ben Gourley from the University of San Diego School of Law. Allyson Fleming was selected by her fellow competitors via secret ballot as the winner of the Professionalism Award. The Closer is a highly-selective competition with invitations extended to law schools whose programming demonstrates a commitment to excellence in practical transactional law training. At stake in the competition is the chance to win one of two $5,000 top prizes and bragging rights as a top closer. The annual competition, another example of Baylor Law's commitment to provide practical opportunities for legal education, provides a high-pressure environment and hands-on exposure to one of the most important aspects of transactional law: contract drafting and negotiation. As the host, Baylor Law does not field a team. The Closer is unlike any other transactional law competition. The deal that the participants negotiate is disclosed to the competitors less than twenty-four hours prior to the first round of negotiations. The tight timeline forces competitors to identify the most important legal issues and devise and negotiate solutions that best serve their client's needs with the efficiency required of lawyers under realistic time constraints. The Deal Is Hypothetical – The Participants Are Real In this year's competition, participants negotiated a fictional health care joint venture between two prominent names in health care in Central Texas —Baylor Scott &White Medical Center—Hillcrest, a general acute care hospital, and Southwest Sports Medicine & Orthopaedics, a physician practice dedicated to meeting the needs of athletes and active adults of all ages. The fictitious transaction required competitors to deal with challenging issues relating to the structure and governance of the joint venture as they sought to satisfy the goals and objectives of their clients while navigating health care laws and other legal and tax issues. At the center of the transaction involved in the 2020 competition sat a newly constructed $50 million sports medicine and orthopedic complex adjacent to the Hillcrest campus of Baylor Scott &White Medical Center. During the competition, participants made a site visit to the new facility, which has not yet opened to the public, and learned about its state-of-the-art features. Through a series of 40-minute rounds of negotiations in front of experienced transactional lawyers, competitors are judged on their knowledge of legal and financial issues, presence and professionalism, and their ability to find creative solutions to reach an agreement that satisfies their client's objectives while under strict time constraints. Keeping pressure on the competitors, 'breaking developments' and new information from their clients are introduced to the finalists on the night before the final rounds. Closing the Deal – Under Pressure Carolyn Griffith from Indiana University Maurer School of Law, was awarded one of the $5,000 prizes for best representing the interests of Baylor Scott & White Medical Center – Hillcrest, and Allyson Fleming from The Ohio State University Michael E. Moritz College of Law was awarded the other $5,000 prize for best representing Southwest Sports Medicine & Orthopaedics. "It was an absolute pleasure getting to know my fellow competitors. I was in awe of their brilliance throughout the competition," Stated competition co-winner Allyson Fleming, "It was incredibly impressive that Baylor Law was able to assemble such a special group of people. Even when the competition was at its fiercest, the competitors remained cordial, and I think that is a credit to the kind of environment Baylor Law creates for this competition," she added. "We host our own internal competition, and rest assured we will be changing much of the model to reflect the Baylor way. The attention to detail, thoroughly challenging nature of the problem, and unique Baylor hospitality made the Closer a phenomenal competition," remarked co-winner Carolyn Griffith. "Winning the Closer will be a highlight of my time in law school [...] winning affirmed my pursuit of a transactional practice after I graduate. I am more confident in this decision after having the opportunity to push myself in my understanding of a complex body of law to represent a client well in negotiations," Griffith added. Final Round JUDGES SCORING THE FINAL ROUNDS WERE: Andrew N. 'Andy' Meyercord, Partner, Gray Reed E. Steve Bolden II, Partner, Bracewell LLP Wendi Campbell Rogaliner, Partner, Bradley Arant Boult Cummings LLP W. Gregory Looser, Co-Founder & Partner, Clarion Ventures, LLC Martha Colvin Agee, Hankamer School of Business, Baylor University Judges for the final round of The Closer 2020 listen intently during the final rounds of the competition. Left to Right: Greg Looser, Wendi Rogaliner, Martha Agee, Andy Meyercord, Steve Bolden BAYLOR LAW SCHOOL SINCERELY APPRECIATES THOSE WHO INVESTED IN THE CLOSER: Underwriters Kim and Bill Shaddock Sponsors Gray Reed Munsch Hardt Law Office of Mark D. Foster J. Michael Tibbals/Freeman Mills PC Special thanks Baylor Scott &White Medical Center—Hillcrest Baylor Scott & White, Southwest Sports Medicine & Orthopaedics PREMIER ER & Urgent Care Baylor Law faculty, staff, and students who contributed their time and talents to make The Closer 2020 a success 2020 PARTICIPATING SCHOOLS AND COMPETITORS Brigham Young University J. Reuben Clark Law School - Paul Fife Emory University School of Law - Baoyi Cai Indiana University Maurer School of Law - Carolyn Griffith The Ohio State University Michael E. Moritz College of Law - Allyson Fleming University of Colorado Law School - Nichole Burnett University of Denver Sturm College of Law - Shelley Ormsby University of Kansas School of Law - Tara Mollhagen University of Mississippi School of Law - Terrence Hunter University of Missouri–Kansas City School of Law - Nihit Desai University of Pennsylvania Law School - Cynthia Tremonte University of San Diego School of Law - Ben Gourley University of Tennessee College of Law - Taylor Bullard For more information about the competition, visit The Closer on Baylor Law's website, or contact Professor Elizabeth Miller. MEDIA CONTACT: Ed Nelson, Director of Marketing & Communications EMAIL: Ed_Nelson@Baylor.edu PHONE: 254-710-6681 ABOUT BAYLOR LAW Established in 1857, Baylor Law was one of the first law schools in Texas and one of the first west of the Mississippi River. Today, the school has more than 7,500 living alumni. It is accredited by the American Bar Association and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools. Baylor Law has a record of producing outstanding lawyers, many of whom decide upon a career in public service. Baylor Law boasts two governors, members or former members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, two former directors of the FBI, U.S. ambassadors, federal judges, justices of the Texas Supreme Court and members of the Texas Legislature among its notable alumni. In its law specialties rankings, U.S. News & World Report ranked Baylor Law's trial advocacy program as one of the top 5 in the nation. Baylor Law School is also ranked #50 in the magazine's 2019 edition of "America's Best Graduate Schools." The National Jurist ranks Baylor Law as one of the "Best School for Practical Training," and #4 in the nation in its most recent "Best Law School Facilities" listing. The Business Insider places Baylor Law among the top 50 law schools in the nation. Baylor Law School received the 2015 American Bar Association Pro Bono Publico Award, making it only the third law school in the nation to be honored with the award since the award's inception in 1984. Learn more at baylor.edu/law ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 17,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 80 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Learn more at baylor.edu Are you looking for more News? All NewsArchives About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School