Student Government Association - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to SGA - Student Government Association Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Student Government Association Home Executive Branch Office of the President Chief of Staff Department of Public Relations Department of External Affairs Department of Outreach Department of Multicultural Affairs Legislative Branch Senate Directory Meeting Schedule Meeting Agendas & Minutes Senate Committees Legislation Docket Senate Resources Judicial Branch Supreme Court Department of Justice Resources Latino Student Resources LGBTQ+ Resources About Us Mission & Structure Our History Support Staff Get Involved University Committees SGA Emerging Leaders International Student Mentorship Program The Cougar Pack UH System Student Regent Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) Green Fund Referendum Cougar Red Friday Challenge Elections Student Government Association 59th Administration Twitter Facebook Instagram To mitigate the risk from COVID-19 and to practice social distancing, effective immediately, the Student Government Association staff will be working remotely until further notice. We will be available to assist you by phone and/or email. Senate meetings will be held over Zoom until further notice. The Senate meetings are held every other Wednesday at 7:00 PM. Zoom meeting ID: 959 7788 2421 Please see below for more information. SGA President Joshua Martin sgapres@central.uh.edu 832-946-3401 SGA Advisor Keith T. Kowalka KTKowalka@central.uh.edu 832-842-6151 Listserv: UH-SGA Your Full Name: Your E-mail Address: Action: subscribe unsubscribe Executive Branch The Executive Power of the Student Government Association is vested in the elected student body President and Vice-President. The Cabinet is appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. The main role of the Executive Branch is to carry out the legislation passed by the Senate. Legislative Branch The Legislative power of the Student Government Association is vested in the Student Senate. Through legislation, the Senate works toward improving the student experience at the University of Houston. Judicial Branch The Judiciary of the Student Government Association is vested in the Supreme Court. The Court of Appeals is the Supreme Court for SGA and hears matters involved the constitutionality of legislation, disputes between branches, and is the court of last resort for election issues. Contact Us N220 Student Center North Houston, TX 77004-3031 832.842.6225 sga@uh.edu ASK SGA Have A Question, Comment, or Concern? We Want to Hear From You! Fill out our 'Ask SGA' form! University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies