Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Global Regional Activities Regional Activities Africa Asia-Pacific California Europe Japan Latin America Mid-US Middle East & North Africa South Asia About Faculty & Research MBA Experience Executive Education Alumni …→ Harvard Business School→ Global→ About About Africa Asia Pacific California Europe Japan Latin America Mid-US Middle East & North Africa South Asia Fast Facts → Latin America Latin America Buenos Aires, Mexico City, São Paulo HBS has had a longstanding footprint in Latin America for over 20 years. The Latin America Research Center (LARC) was opened in Buenos Aires in 2000, to satisfy strong interest on the part of the HBS faculty in this dynamic region. As a result, the LARC’s work has greatly increased the volume of in-depth research and course materials that focus on business management issues specific to Latin American companies. This has also enabled HBS to strengthen its relationships with important companies and organizations, fostering increased student engagement in the region. Since its inception, the LARC has supported HBS faculty in developing most of the HBS research cases and projects on management and economic issues in Latin America. To further encourage research being carried out in this region, HBS established a research center in São Paulo, Brazil, coupled with an office in Mexico City. Locations Latin America Research Center - Buenos Aires Buenos Aires, Argentina Tel: +54 11 5218 9937 Fax: +54 11 4813 1308 Latin America Research Center Tel: +55 11 3549 9590 Mexico City Office Mexico City, Mexico News & Highlights January 2022 MBA Experience MBA Perspectives: Thomaz Galvao, MBA Class of 2021 A collection of community perspectives on this blog provide prospective students with insight into life at HBS. In this interview, Brazilian student Thomaz Galvao, MBA 2021, shares his experience and what led him to HBS. November 2021 Events Environmental, Social, Governance and the Challenges of the Food Service Industry In an event co-hosted with the HBS India Research Center, Professor Forest Reinhardt interviewed Woods Staton, Executive Chairman of the Board and controlling shareholder of Arcos Dorados. They discussed the impact of the pandemic in the Quick Service Restaurants (QSR) segment, main challenges experienced by the sector that were turned into growth opportunities, the adoption of sustainability-related initiatives, and the ESG-related challenges of Arcos in Latin America. OCTOBER 2021 ALUMNI Gustavo A. Herrero (MBA 1976) honored with 2021 HAA Award for Extraordinary Service The Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) has announced the six recipients of the 2021 HAA Awards including former Latin America Research Center Executive Director, Gustavo A. Herrero, (MBA 1976). Since 1990, the annual HAA Awards has honored alumni for exceptional service to Harvard University through leadership and engagement activities. Gustavo of Buenos Aires, Argentina, has dedicated his career to building international collaboration across Latin America, generously sharing his expertise in institutional development and management with businesses and institutions of higher education. Devoted to expanding the global reach of Harvard Business School (HBS), Herrero was instrumental in founding the HBS Latin America Research Center (LARC), serving for over 14 years as its executive director. SEPTEMBER 2021 ALUMNI Funding his Purpose: Leonardo Letelier (MBA 2002) About five years after Leonardo Letelier (MBA 2002) graduated from HBS, he found himself at a career crossroads. He enjoyed the work he was doing as a consultant, but something was missing. He didn’t have the word for it. “Today, everyone talks about purpose,” he says, “but that wasn’t a common discussion back then.” He thought about his work, about the projects he had undertaken around the world that had left him satisfied and about those that made him proud; and, finally, he thought about a meeting with Vera Cordeiro, a Brazilian social entrepreneur for whom he was doing pro bono work. “I left each meeting feeling like a better person,” Letelier recalls. Letelier left his consulting career to help mission-driven nonprofit and for-profit organizations in Brazil access the financing they need to flourish New Research on the Region April 2022 Teaching Material Banorte Móvil: Data-Driven Mobile Growth By: Ayelet Israeli and Carla Larangeira In mid-2019, Carlos Hank was deliberating over the results for Banorte Móvil—the mobile application for Banorte, Mexico’s most profitable and second-largest financial institution. Hank, who had been appointed as Banorte´s Chairman of the Board in January 2015, had overseen Banorte’s transformation (and multi-million-dollar investment) from a product and client volume-focused bank into a customer-centric, technology and data-driven organization with a radically new focus. Beyond investing in a new technology platform and deploying new digital channels, Banorte also invested in the development of internal capacities to convert data intelligence into profits. Spearheaded by José Antonio Murillo, an economist with a Ph.D. from Rice University, Banorte’s Analytics Business Unit (ABU) kicked off early on 2015, reporting directly to upper management and focused on increasing customer lifetime value. Over the course of its four-year trajectory, through data analytics and experimentation, which involved both experimenting with client incentives and tailored communication strategies through multiple channels, the ABU had successfully achieved higher product placement rates, particularly under Banorte Móvil’s platform. Yet, with 2.25 million active users, Banorte Móvil was still far from reaching its 4-million-user target by 2020. Adoption picked up, but Banorte Móvil was still losing many potential adopters along the mobile customer journey, particularly in its activation phase. Furthermore, 81% of app activity was for account balance or transaction views, with financial operations, such as card or service payments or acquisition of new bank products, accounting for a minority of the activity. If Banorte wanted to remain a top player in Mexico’s financial sector, it was clear to upper management that growth in mobile banking needed to be a priority. How could the bank successfully achieve its target? And, even if Banorte Móvil’s adoption numbers increased, would it be possible to get more value and engagement through this channel? As Banorte Móvil took off, Hank dwelled on the strategic decisions he had to make, especially considering what client segments to focus on for mobile adoption and use and how to effectively reach out to them. Furthermore, Hank knew they could not afford to neglect other banking channels, which still accounted for the bulk of Banorte’s operations. March 2022 Case El Salvador: Launching Bitcoin as Legal Tender By: Laura Alfaro, Carla Larangeira and Ruth Costas In June 2021, Nayib Bukele, El Salvador’s president, surprised the world with the announcement that the country would adopt bitcoin as legal tender, becoming the first nation to do so. Bitcoin was mostly used for trading and had one of the most volatile track records among assets. Yet, crypto adoption as a medium of exchange was starting to gain pace worldwide. Bukele claimed it would be a boon for financial inclusion, investment, innovation, and economic development. El Salvador´s $27 billion economy suffered from persistently low growth, high public debt, and a strong dependence on remittances, which could potentially become cheaper and faster to access in bitcoins. The Bitcoin plan was met with both enthusiasm from Bitcoin supporters and skepticism from credit agencies and multilateral finance institutions, which believed it could bring macroeconomic instability to the local economy. Was bitcoin a viable currency for Salvadorans? Or, as some observers pointed out, was Bukele's plan another sign of weakened governance in his administration? March 2022 (Revised May 2022) Case Winning Business at Russell Reynolds (A) By: Ethan Bernstein and Cara Mazzucco In an effort to make compensation drive collaboration, Russell Reynolds Associates’ (RRA) CEO Clarke Murphy sought to re-engineer the bonus system for his executive search consultants in 2016. As his HR analytics guru, Kelly Smith, points out, that risks upsetting–and maybe even losing–some of the “big billers” (rainmakers) who were heavily rewarded under the current system that motivated individual, ‘entrepreneurial’ efforts to win business. Frustrated by the current system’s shortcomings, including failing to provide clients with the teams they needed for increasingly advisory work and affording junior consultants an opportunity to adequately apprentice, Murphy was worried that the current compensation system was holding RRA back from executing on his growth strategy intended to help RRA–a top 5 search firm–recapture market share lost to its competitors since the great recession. He had tried many attempts, over multiple years, to change the culture through other means, but only with tepid success. Now he had to decide whether to pull the trigger on a large-scale effort to adjust RRA’s discretionary bonus system after hearing concern–and even anger–over the proposal from some of his top 20 consultants. To permit students to analyze the situation, they have access to detailed, real performance and compensation data for all RRA consultants in 2015 (in the supplementary (C) case spreadsheet), along with the modeling RRA did to forecast the effect of the compensation system changes on each person. Students can therefore analyze how a more collaborative approach to compensation might positively impact some consultants and adversely impact others, assessing the benefits and risks of the dislocation. By asking students to decide whether Murphy should move forward with the new compensation system, or whether an alternative might be better, students will wrestle with the role of compensation systems in driving intended behaviors, such as collaboration, and thus in supporting or warping organizational culture, performance, and growth. By analyzing the dislocation to employees’ variable compensation due to a change, students will learn the challenges of changing and calibrating compensation systems. Finally, by exposing students to the various tradeoffs involved in designing a compensation system and the “zero sum” nature of their implications, students will internalize the complexity involved in attempting to drive organizational change through changes to a compensation system (i.e., “align incentives” is not as easy to do as it is to say). For faculty members seeking to expose students to the internal functioning of professional services firms (and/or specifically executive search firms), the case context permits an uncharacteristically transparent look inside one firm, although the lessons about compensation of the case discussion extend to organizations more generally. The (A) case describes the dilemma faced by the firm and its CEO in 2015, and it concludes by asking students to make a decision about RRA’s compensation system design going forward. The (B) case describes the decision the firm made, how the changes were communicated and rolled out, the impacts (both intended and unintended) on consultant behavior and results, and reflections on what worked and didn’t work (updated as of 2021). The (C) case supplement is a spreadsheet that provides real performance and compensation data for all ~350 RRA consultants at the time the decision was being made (in 2015), and comparable performance and compensation data for those consultants in 2018 (to pair with the (B) case) is available to faculty separately as part of the Teaching Note. See more research Buenos Aires Staff Fernanda Miguel Christopher P. Torto Executive Director → Biography Fernanda Miguel Christopher P. Torto Executive Director Maria Fernanda Miguel is the Christopher P. Torto Executive Director for the Latin America Research Center (LARC). Her responsibilities include leading research activities for the LATAM region, and providing programmatic support to different areas of HBS including admissions, executive education, and immersion programs. Fernanda is based in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Prior to joining Harvard Business School, Fernanda was a Senior Director and Leader for LATAM Business Development at Merck and senior consultant at McKinsey & Co., serving as global Practice Manager for the Business Technology Office Health Care Practice. She holds a degree in economics from the Argentine Catholic University, an MBA from Harvard Business School, and a Master of Research from University of Bath. Fernanda has been very active in non-profit activities, including fund rising at the Fundación Acción Hemato-oncologica – Argentine National Academy of Medicine, and acting as advisor to the Board of Directors of the Hospital Garrahan. Contact Informationfmiguel@hbs.edu Mariana Cal Assistant Director, Research Jenyfeer Martínez Buitrago Senior Researcher Maria Martha Ruiz Melo Office Manager São Paulo Staff Ruth Costas Senior Researcher Patricia Thome Brazil Office & Regional Program Manager Pedro Levindo Senior Researcher Mexico City Staff Carla Larangeira Senior Researcher ǁ Global Initiative Harvard Business School Boston, MA 02163 Email: global@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College