Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Students Contact your Advisor Advising Resources and Tools Transfer Credit Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation College Credit Plus Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact 15 to Finish Students FAQ Resources For Advisors UC Advising Conference About Organization Advising Strategic Plan Assessment Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation Home Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation At the University of Cincinnati, we understand that students have concerns about the impact of COVID-19 on their academic plans. We will continue to compile and update information regarding credit transfer and articulation on this page. For any questions pertaining to credit evaluation not answered on this page, please contact credeval@uc.edu for assistance. FAQs on COVID-19 and UC Credit Evaluation I am being awarded a “Pass” grade for a course. Will the course transfer to UC? Passing grades for credit will be awarded transfer credit at UC. Please check with an academic advisor to determine degree applicability of your transfer credit. How will COVID-19 impact CTAG, TAG, or OTM credits? UC is adhering to Ohio Articulation and Transfer Policy COVID-19 updates. For more information, please visit the Ohio Department of Higher Education’s Website. How will COVID-19 impact Advanced Placement (AP) credit awards? College Board announced changes to Advanced Placement® AP Exam content and formats for Spring 2020. UC recognizes the effort that students have already applied in these challenging courses and will award credit for 2020 AP exams completed with scores of 3,4, or 5, consistent with previous years. Please review our AP award key for credit award information. Students are still required to submit official test results to the University of Cincinnati for transfer credit. How will COVID-19 impact International Baccalaureate (IB) credit awards? Please visit the International Baccalaureate website for information and updates regarding changes to May 2020 IB Diploma assessments and procedures. UC recognizes the rigorous curriculum that IB candidates pursue and will honor May 2020 IB diplomas that are earned by adhering to the current award key. Students are still required to submit official IB results to the University of Cincinnati for transfer credit. How will COVID-19 impact A-Level (Advanced) and AS-Level (Advanced Subsidiary) Qualification credit awards? UC will honor June 2020 A-Level awards and will follow official recommendations for AS marks that are carried forward. Please click here for our current award key. Please visit Cambridge Assessment International Education’s website for their COVID-19 policies and procedures. Pearson’s website also offers information and updates for United Kingdom and International candidates impacted by COVID-19. Students are still required to submit official transcripts to the University of Cincinnati for transfer credit evaluation. How will COVID-19 impact CLEP exams and credit awards? College Board has not suspended CLEP testing, but testing centers may have closed temporarily. Please visit the College Board CLEP website for COVID-19 policies and updates. UC will continue to adhere to our current award key for any tests taken during this time. Students are still required to submit official test results to the University of Cincinnati for transfer credit. How will COVID-19 impact DSST exams? Although current recommendation is for testing to be suspended until May 1st, each testing center operates independently. Please contact your test center regarding upcoming DSST exams. Service members can visit the DANTES-sponsored programs website for more information and updates. UC will continue to adhere to our current award key for any tests taken during this time. Students are still required to submit official test results to the University of Cincinnati for transfer credit. Other COVID-19 student FAQs: Office of Academic & Advising Services Pre-professional Advising (pre-law, pre-health) College Credit Plus (CCP) UC Testing Services UC's centralized COVID-19 response Office of Advising & Academic Services 2618 McMicken Circle University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221-0202 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.