COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Engineering Technology Section Menu Engineering Technology Home Engineering Open House Mission and Vision Accreditation, Enrollment, & Articulation Agreements Industrial Advisory Board Contact Information Advising ET Careers Faculty and Staff Jobs & Salaries News and Events Engineering Technology - What is it? Alumni Hub for Cybersecurity Education and Awareness (HCEA) Engineering Open House Spring 2020 Engineering Open House Fall 2020 Engineering Open House Spring 2021 ECO Tracker Offensive Cyber Corp Renewable Tech Rubys Cc Design Rubys CC Facilities Secure Access Sol Security Solutions SIA Water Conservation Consultants Adam Lynch Wichita State's Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology (BSET) program is a hands-on program based upon engineering technology fundamentals, engineering principles, instrumentation, mathematics, science, and practical design principles needed to equip students for employment or further education. Welcome News Faculty Lorraine Lowrey, 2021 Outstanding Graduating Senior Lorraine Lowrey is a senior graduating this May with a bachelor’s degree in civil engineering technology. In addition to earning her bachelor’s degree, Lorraine completed her welding certification in Summer 2019. While at Wichita State, Lorraine has been a member of the Wichita State chapter of the Society of Women Engineers (SWE). Lorraine is also a professional member of SWE, the American Society for Civil Engineers, and the American Water Works Association. During her time at Wichita State, Lorraine served two years as a Resident Assistant. In her free time, Lorraine enjoys spending time with her family and friends. When she is not doing that, she is working on her next craft project. Lorraine is an avid sewer and enjoys sewing quilts and machine embroidery. Lorraine has a great passion for water and the water industry. She plans to use her degree to pursue a career in the water industry and change how people see water. Lorraine’s favorite water quote is by Benjamin Franklin, who said, “When the well is dry, we will know the worth of water.” Follow our Twitter for News and Updates! Tweets by engtwsu Interested in Facilities Management? Facilities Management Curriculum Mechatronics Technology The Engineering Technology Mechatronic program is the first college to be endorsed by the ARM (Advanced Robotics for Manufacturing) Institute. This endorsement allows our program to be listed on the prestigious https://Roboticscareer.org website. Roboticscareer.org is the only national resource that highlights training that has been vetted by industry experts and is proven to assist student get the skills needed for a career in robotics for manufacturing. Learn more Virtual Engineering Open House View our Spring 2021 class projects! View All Projects Engineering Technology The Engineering Technology program is accredited by the Engineering Technology Accreditation Commission of ABET. It offers the following concentrations: Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology Civil Engineering Technology Engineering Technology Management Facilities Management Mechatronics Technology Bachelor of Science in Applied Computing Applied Computing Interested in our courses? Request a program packet. Students WSU students help Girl Scouts affected by social distancing Samantha Corcoran’s Service Learning in Engineering class is working with Girl Scouts of Kansas Heartland, which serves more than 11,700 girls and adults throughout Kansas, to create STEM activity kits that include projects in fields like engineering, robotics and coding. These kits are typically comprised of physical materials and instructions that are used by troop leaders to teach merit badge skills during meetings. Read More Women in Manufacturing More Information ABET Engineering Technology Salaries & Job Outlook Engineering vs. Engineering Technology ASME (American Society of Mechanical Engineers) - Technology in Society GoBabyGo 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©