Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal Dining and Catering DINING OPTIONS Conference and event guests can choose from breakfast, lunch and dinner meal periods, in addition to catering orders and boxed meals. Summer conference guests should work with the Conference Coordinator for summer conference and camp meal plans. THE GASTRONOME The Gastronome is a unique, state of the art dining facility. It provides the Cal State Fullerton community a great opportunity to not only eat a healthy, nutritious, and well balanced meal; but it also serves as a hub of activity and a place to bring the community together. The Gastronome features an extremely diverse daily menu. Almost all items are customizable and prepared-to-order in which you can select the proteins, vegetables, and sauces that go into your meal. The facility features a stone hearth oven with pizzas, a grill with burgers and specialty sandwiches, a delicious international kitchen, deli and salad bars, mouthwatering soups, and a bake shop with fresh breads, rolls, and delicious desserts. CATERING OPTIONS Our program offers flexible and reliable catering to match the needs of our summer guests. For more information about catering, visit the Gastronome's Catering webpage. OTHER ON-CAMPUS DINING Visit Campus Dining for a listing of other dining venues on the Cal State Fullerton campus. This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.