Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Maguire Center Events Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Student Engagement Student Engagement The Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Teaching and Research Teaching and Research Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grant Program Resources Resources COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Newsroom Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog About Us About Us Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Give ☰ Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Resources Papers Occasional Papers From time to time, the Maguire Center publishes papers -- some works in progress, reworkings of Public Scholar addresses, or invited papers from conference speakers. In addition to print versions (published in the years indicated below), we plan to publish these as PDFs, as well. (To read a PDF document, you need to download a free Adobe Acrobat reader to your computer.) Barbara Hill Moore, True to My Own Voice: Ethical Challenges in Talent Development, 2015 Dennis Simon, The Politics of Memory and the Legacy of the Civil Rights Movement, 2013 Tom L. Beauchamp, The Legacy and Contemporary Relevance of Nazi Physicians, 2013 Robin Lovin, Faith and Politics: An Augustinian Reflection, 2013 Charles E. Curran, The U.S. Catholic Bishops and Abortion Legislation: A Critique from Within the Church, 2012 Tony Pederson, Reporter Privilege: A Con Job or an Essential Element of Democracy? (forthcoming 2011) (pre-publication version of the paper) Jenia Turner, Ethical Dilemmas for Defense Attorneys in War-Crimes Trials, 2010 Mark McPhail, Confessions of an Expert Witness: Rhetoric, Politics, and Ethics at the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, 2010 Paul E. McGreal, Counteracting Ambition: Applying Corporate Compliance and Ethics to the Separation of Powers Concerns with Domestic Surveillance, 2008 Mark A. Chancey, Politics, Culture Wars, and the Good Book: Recent Controversies Over the Bible and Public Education, 2007 Marshall Terry, The Founding and Defining of a University, 2007 Michael Adler, Saving the Past for Whom? Considerations for a New Conservation Ethic in Archeology, 2005 Carolyn Sargent and Carolyn Smith-Morris, Questioning Our Principles: Anthropological Contributions to Ethical Dilemmas in Clinical Practice, 2005 Linda Eads, Corporate America and Its Ethical Choices, 2004 Kathleen Wellman, Moral Tales: Ethics and Enlightenment Fiction, 2003 J. Matthew Wilson, Moral Visions and the New American Politics, 2003 Rebekah Miles, That’s All a Mule Can Do: The Ethics of Balancing Work at Home and on the Job, 2003 Albert C. Pierce, A Model for Moral Leadership: Contemporary Applications, 2003 Jeffrey F. Gaba, When “Takings” Happen to Good People: The Fifth Amendment Takings Clause and the Issue of Distributional Justice, 2001 Philip Seib, Teaching Online Journalism Ethics, 2001 Stephen L. Elkin, Civic Prospects: Civic Engagement and the City, 2000 Ernesto Cortes Jr., A New Democratic Politics, 2000 Ruth Morgan, A Realistic Vision of a Just and Effective Urban Politics, 2000 Alastair Norcross, Three Approaches to the Ethical Status of Animals, 2000 Steven Sverdlik, Compassion and Sympathy as Moral Motivation, 1999 Joseph L. Allen, Politics as a Calling, 1998 Bonnie Wheeler, Pilgrimage and the Desire for Meaning, 1998 Michael Holahan, “Look, her lips”: Softness of Voice, Construction of Character in King Lear, 1998 (reprinted by permission of Shakespeare Quarterly) William Lee Miller, Journalism as a High Profession in Spite of Itself, 1998 James F. Childress, Managed Care: Some Basic Ethical Issues, 1998 James K. Hopkins, The Private and Public Intellectual in the World and the Academy, 1998 Resources Doing Our Part: The Maguire Center Responds to COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share