Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Kraft Precision Medicine Accelerator Kraft Precision Medicine Accelerator Register Now Hear our mission Get inspired Use the tools Learn from leaders Find more resources …→ Harvard Business School→ Kraft Accelerator→ Curing could be your business But first, build an effective plan →Develop a Plan If you’ve got the passion, we’ve got the playbook Today, there are more than 20,000 different cure-seeking organizations, each one operating under their own set of rules, guidelines, and best practices. But ultimately, they all have the same goal: get better treatments to patients. Often, the focus is solely on research. Organizations could achieve so much more by building and implementing comprehensive business plans that keep pace with cutting-edge science. Today, the structure of the current ecosystem isn’t built around business efficiencies. The Harvard Business School Kraft Precision Medicine Accelerator was conceived to change that. Together, we can move medicine forward In 2015, our work began with one question: how do we bring more treatments to the people who need them? The Harvard Business School Kraft Precision Medicine Accelerator started by investigating the cure ecosystem, identifying and addressing the most crucial obstacles in developing medicines. To help us, we pulled in more than 300 thinkers, doers, and disruptors on the front lines of business, scientific, and social change. Together, we found the sweet spots that represent real opportunities and transformation, and developed business strategies that enabled us to take advantage of them. Since then, we’ve leveraged these strategies to develop a playbook: tools, case studies, and resources to help other cure-seeking organizations build their own business plan to move medical advances forward. By sharing all this, along with the wisdom we’ve gained, we hope that other organizations will succeed in getting their treatments to those who need it. Set up for success Before you can start building your plan, you need a solid foundation. Get inspired → Start building Develop a plan that is well-equipped to face the challenges of advancing treatments. Use the tools → See how others hit the mark Hear from those provoking progress within the cure ecosystem. Learn from leaders → Before you download the tool Please complete the form: Your First Name* Your Last Name* Your Company Name* Your Email Address* SUBMIT & DOWNLOAD Register now to stay in touch with us and get new information along the way Please complete the form: Your First Name* Your Last Name* Your Company Name* Your Email Address* REGISTER ǁ Kraft Precision Medicine Accelerator Harvard Business School Cotting House Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.1782 Email: kraft_accelerator@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College