Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Student Life Menu About A Message from the Vice President Office of the Vice President Leadership Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Sharra Hynes Jim Marsh Elizabeth D. Palacios Burt Burleson Office of the VP Staff Zach Mills Sandra Northern Janet Green Tom Barnard Strategic Plan 2020-21 Student Life Annual Report Student Life Spotlight Student Engagement Student Activities Campus Living (Housing) New Student Programs Student Conduct Administration Ombuds to Students Student Foundation Fraternity and Sorority Life Spiritual Life Worship Baptist Student Ministries Missions Pastoral Care Community & Culture Multicultural Affairs Diversity at Baylor Student Health & Wellness Campus Recreation Counseling Services Health Services Wellness Care Team 24/7 Care (Tele-Health) Resources Follow Us on Social Media Student Life YouTube What's New BU What's New BU Submission What's New BU Archive WNBU Submission Guidelines Off Campus Housing HESA Program Ombuds to Students Statement on Hazing GameDay for Students We're Hiring Make a Gift Baylor>Student Life>About>Leadership>Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Having experienced the transformational power of higher education in his own life, Dr. Kevin P. Jackson is passionate about creating learning environments that not only inform the mind, but form the heart and soul as well. His journey as a leader, teacher, and mentor in higher education spans more than 35 years and led him to Baylor University in 2009 where he serves currently as the vice president for student life. In this position, he leads a comprehensive student affairs division dedicated to enhancing students’ educational, spiritual, cultural, and physical development. As the senior student affairs officer and a member of the president’s council, he strives to develop and nurture partnerships that create a vibrant and seamless student learning experience and has direct responsibility for 15 departments and offices whose missions focus on the design and delivery of high-impact services, programs and advocacy efforts for a student body of over 19,000. Leadership responsibilities include residential living, student union and activities, fraternal organizations, leadership development, new student orientation, health center, counseling center, community service, campus recreation, spiritual life, student conduct, wellness, addiction recovery center, multicultural affairs, and assessment. He has also served as an adjunct professor in the School of Education with a focus on leadership. Before joining Baylor University, Dr. Jackson served Texas A&M University for 22 years in positions that included assistant vice president for student affairs and visiting assistant professor with the College of Education and Human Development, director for student activities, and senior associate director of the Memorial Student Center. Prior to A&M, he served as associate director for student union and activities at the University of Denver. Dr. Jackson earned his doctorate in Educational Human Resource Development from Texas A&M University, his masters in Higher Education Administration from the University of Denver, and his bachelors cum laude in Journalism and Business from the University of North Texas. He has been active in a number of professional associations as well as has been named an outstanding alumnus of the College of Education and Human Development at Texas A&M University, is a recipient of the Stetson University College of Law, Center for Excellence in Higher Education Law and Policy, Facilitator Award, and has been recognized as a distinguished member of the National Society of Collegiate Scholars. He and his wife, Garret, a reading specialist and certified trainer, are parents of three adult daughters: Taylor, Lauren, and Emily. For recommendation letter requests, speaking engagement requests, or inquiries for Dr. Jackson please e-mail: Student_Life@baylor.edu About A Message from the Vice President Office of the Vice President Leadership Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Sharra Hynes Jim Marsh Elizabeth D. Palacios Burt Burleson Office of the VP Staff Zach Mills Sandra Northern Janet Green Tom Barnard Strategic Plan 2020-21 Student Life Annual Report Student Life Spotlight Division of Student Life McLane Student Life Center One Bear Place #97016 Waco, TX 76798-7016 (254) 710-1314 StudentLife@baylor.edu EventsGiveNewsletter General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About A Message from the Vice President Office of the Vice President Leadership Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Sharra Hynes Jim Marsh Elizabeth D. Palacios Burt Burleson Office of the VP Staff Zach Mills Sandra Northern Janet Green Tom Barnard Strategic Plan 2020-21 Student Life Annual Report Student Life Spotlight Student Engagement Student Activities Campus Living (Housing) New Student Programs Student Conduct Administration Ombuds to Students Student Foundation Fraternity and Sorority Life Spiritual Life Worship Baptist Student Ministries Missions Pastoral Care Community & Culture Multicultural Affairs Diversity at Baylor Student Health & Wellness Campus Recreation Counseling Services Health Services Wellness Care Team 24/7 Care (Tele-Health) Resources Follow Us on Social Media Student Life YouTube What's New BU What's New BU Submission What's New BU Archive WNBU Submission Guidelines Off Campus Housing HESA Program Ombuds to Students Statement on Hazing GameDay for Students We're Hiring Make a Gift