COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Dining Services Section Menu Home Apply For Housing Shocker Hall The Flats The Suites Housing Rate Information Prospective Students Parents About Us Employment Opportunities Dining Services Summer Lodging FAQs COVID-19 & WSU Housing Where Shockers Eat. As a campus resident, you will not have to worry about breakfast, lunch or dinner - we've got it covered. With many different dining locations, you will have plenty of options to use your meal plan and dining dollars. All Shocker Hall and Suites residents will have meal plans that include unlimited meals in Shocker Dining with different amounts of Dining Dollars attached that can be used at any campus dining location. Flats residents have the option of purchasing Dining Dollar Only plans in addition to the other options that First-Year residents have. Click here for current meal plan rate information. To contact Dining Services, call 316-978-3477. Click here to visit Dining Service's main webpage. Shocker Dining Hall- Spring 2022 Hours Monday - Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 7:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m. Brunch 10:00 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. Brunch 10:00 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. Dinner 5:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. Dinner 5:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. GroundHouse- Spring 2022 Hours Monday - Thursday Saturday Sunday 7:00 a.m. - 12:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m. 5:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. What's Open Right Now? See more information on other locations managed by WSU Dining Services. Sick Tray Take-Out Request Form If a student is ill and needs another student to bring them a meal in their room, the ill student can complete this form and give their Shocker ID to another student. That student can then go to the dining hall to pick up a meal for the ill student using the ill student's meal plan. Meal Plan Changes The deadline to change your meal plan for the Spring semester is January 24th at 5:00pm. To do this, please follow the instructions below: Login to your MyWSU account Click at the top of the next page that says "Manage My Assignments" Choose the correct term and click "Select" Choose the "Change Meal Plan" option in the drop down menu Answer a few questions and submit your changes If you have a special dietary need or concern, please submit the meal plan accommodation request form below. Meal Plan Accommodation Request Form Meal plans are required for all students living within University housing (Shocker Hall, The Suites, or The Flats). If, however, you have food allergies or follow a special diet for medical or religious reasons, we are happy to meet with you to discuss your concerns, look at options, and determine the best solution regarding your meal plan. Please complete the meal plan accommodation request form. Shocker Dollar Purchase Click here to purchase additional Shocker Dollars. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©