Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Business Analytics Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Business Analytics Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Business Analytics Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Business Analytics Learn to link financial outcomes with profit-driven decisions with the Graduate Certificate in Business Analytics in Temple’s Fox School of Business. In this 12-credit graduate certificate you will learn to transform data into decisions through a focus on explanation, interpretation and knowledge of practical approaches to data analytics. The customizable curriculum allows you to enhance your technical skills in the areas that interest you and tailor the program to your career needs and goals. Intended for professionals who want to learn more about business analytics, increase their earning potential, or to supplement their skills with technical and quantitative expertise, the Graduate Certificate in Business Analytics offers face-to-face classroom sessions; hands-on opportunities through real-world data exploration; and quantitative preparation in advance of pursuing a master’s program. This certificate is designed to foster deep analytical skills and the ability to use analysis of big data to make effective business decisions. Graduates of the program will be prepared to effectively communicate insights and results of analyses in managerially relevant terms; obtain information and insight from datasets of varying complexity; understand the applications, assumptions and limitations of business-analytic models and techniques; use descriptive, predictive and prescriptive analytics, recognize when each is appropriate and understand the fundamental methods and techniques behind each; and utilize and apply various analytical tools and software. Credits earned as part of the program may also be transferred to a Fox Specialized Master’s or MBA program. Request Information Learn more about the Graduate Certificate in Business Analytics. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Request Information Apply Classes & Curriculum Core courses you will take as part of the four-course Graduate Certificate in Business Analytics program include Quantitative Methods for Business, and Visualization: The Art of Numbers and the Psychology of Persuasion. Learn more about Business Analytics Graduate Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Actuarial Science MS Business Analytics MS Statistics MS Statistics PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,218.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,276.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Careers Graduates of the program will be prepared to take the next step in their professional careers, adding analytical tools to a strong business background. Specific positions graduates may pursue include data analyst, data scientist, management analyst, manager of manufacturing operations, market research analyst, project manager, research analyst and supply chain manager. Program Contact To learn more about the Graduate Certificate in Business Analytics, contact Rachel Carr, the associate director for Specialized Master's Programs in Temple’s Fox School of Business. Phone: 215-204-0574 Email: rcarr@temple.edu Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-BUSA-GRAD Additional Program Information School/College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Business Analytics Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info