Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For New Faculty & Staff New Students Visitors Search BC.edu Links ITS Menu Main Nav ITS Need Technology Help? Back Back Close About Overview Office of the CIO Departments Current Projects EagleApps Sustainability Student Employees Key Partners & Events Services Overview Audio, Video, Graphics & Photography Newton Campus Classroom & Event Technology Backup Classroom Technology Hardware Repair Mobile & Web App Publishing Research Services Research Software Research Tutorials Linux Cluster Center for Statistics and Advanced Analysis Training Instructor-led Training (including AEM) Self-paced Learning EagleTech Events Student Tech Tips University Tech Acquisition Support Overview Account & Network Access Account Basics Agora Portal Connect to the Internet Printing VPN Trouble Accessing a Secure Message From UHS? Communication & Collaboration Calendar Create & Share Files Email Email Security Group Email & Lists Phone & Conference Calling Teach, Learn & Work Off Campus Video Conferencing Voicemail Web Publishing Teaching & Learning Security BC 2-Step Verification Encryption Virus Protection (Sophos) Software & Hardware BC Apps (Application Server) BCCR (BC Computer Replacement Program) Operating Systems & Mobile Devices Software Downloads Techcycle Program Find Your Tech Consultant Athletics Brighton Campus: Ahmed Naim Campion: Bill Dahlberg & Mo Karachi Financial Vice President: Mika Whang Fulton: Jason Caira Graduate School of Social Work: Dan Bairos Student Services: Laura Brainard Humanities: Paul Emery & Fawyn Herd Human Resources McGuinn Hall: Bob McColgan Lower Campus Arts & Sciences: Ken Porter St. Clements, South: David Sangurima University Libraries: Gary Seto & Joe Hickey Nursing: Thomas Wahhab Recreation, Administration & ITS: Brian Walsh Sciences: Howard White & Chris Cardoso Student Affairs: Ryan Yung University Advancement: Doug Ballas Law School: Kristen Pickwick, Tiffany Bradford & Tuananh "Mo" Truong Related Links Leaving BC Travel Support Need Technology Help? Close Directory A to Z Listing ITS Help Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give New Faculty & Staff New Students Visitors BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Software Downloads Home Support Software & Hardware Software Downloads Selected software is available for use by current faculty, staff, and students. Certain downloads may be restricted and require additional authorization beyond BC credentials. TC License Tracker Related Links Software on Library computers BC Apps (use software in the cloud) Department Software Purchases Google Workspace at BC Keep Your Software Up-To-Date It is extremely important that operating system software, application software, web browsers, and all browser plug-ins are always kept up-to-date. In an effort to protect all computers on the Boston College network, Information Technology Services may revoke student network privileges if virus software and all necessary updates and patches are not installed. Do not duplicate or replicate downloaded software. Accessibility Antivirus Backup Data Tools Emergency Notification FTP Print Management Productivity Tools Readers/Converters Research Software UIS Video Conferencing VPN (Virtual Private Networking) Accessibility Read&Write Read&Write software for Mac, Windows, or mobile apps (Android Tablet & iPad) supports students with reading, writing, studying, and research. After downloading the software, your documents, files, and web pages will be more accessible. Functionality includes a read-aloud feature, highlighting, speech maker, and more. To install Read&Write: Download Read&Write software. Click "Try Now" Click "Get your free 30 day trial" and install the operating system you want to use. When prompted, sign in to your BC Google account to automatically upgrade to the premium version. Download Read&Write software Antivirus Boston College requires all faculty, staff, and students to use antivirus software on their computers to help protect them from viruses, malware, randsomware, and other threats. Antivirus @ BC Backup ITS suggests that all community members back up their computer on a regular basis to ensure they do not lose files. Backup @ BC Data Tools SQL Developer Oracle SQL Developer is a free graphical user interface software that enables users and administrators to do database tasks in fewer clicks and keystrokes. For the developer, SQL Developer provides powerful editors for working with SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Java Procedures, and XML. Run queries, generate execution plans, export data to the desired format (XML, Excel, HTML, PDF, etc.), execute, debug, test, and document your database programs, and much more with SQL Developer. For the Oracle DBA, since version 3.0, the DBA Panel (available under the View menu) has provided database administrators a set of interfaces for their most critical tasks. SQL Developer will continue to add and enhance features for the DBA. Oracle SQL Developer at Boston College Oracle SQL Developer software allows you to work with an Oracle database and is available on Mac, Windows, and Linux. Oracle SQL Developer and Oracle Client are made freely available by Oracle with no license restrictions. Oracle has granted BC permission to distribute the software to BC affiliations without going through Oracle.com: Faculty & Staff - Contact your TC to push the software to your BC device. Students - See the SQL Developer installation instructions & download the software below. Note: Oracle SQL Developer and Oracle Client are the primary alternatives to the TOAD application software, which was retired from Boston College in May 2021. Download SQL Developer for Mac Download Oracle Client for Windows Download SQL Developer for Windows Download Oracle Client for Linux Emergency Notification Alertus With Alertus Desktop Notification software, urgent information from BC public safety personnel will appear on your computer as a pop-up window overlaying all other open windows. Alertus is automatically installed on BC-owned computers. It is also available to download for faculty, staff, and students on personally-owned computers. If you download the software, you will be responsible for keeping it up-to-date. Software updates will be posted on this page when available. Current versions are: macOS Big Sur v11 & below - Alertus version 2.12.02.1795 Windows 10 & below - Alertus version 5.4.10.0 Download Alertus for Mac Download Alertus for Windows Mac Install Notes: If you get a message stating that the software is from an unidentified developer, right-click (control-click) on the installer file and select “Open” to continue with the install. If you get a “System Extension Blocked” message, do the following within 30 minutes after installing the software: Open System Preferences > Security & Privacy. On the General tab, click “Allow” next to "System software from developer 'software_name' was blocked from loading. Sample Alert from Alertus Campus Preparedness & Emergency Information FTP FTP applications help you transfer files from your computer to an FTP server. Cyberduck A free FTP solution to transmit and download files on the Internet. Cyberduck is open source software distributed free of charge under the terms of the GNU General Public License. Faculty & Staff: Contact your TC to obtain this title. Print Management PaperCut is a system implemented by ITS for student printing. Faculty & Staff can configure network printers. Printing @ BC Productivity Tools Google Workspace BC faculty, staff, and students can access their documents, email, calendar, and more through Google Workspace—a web-based suite of communication and collaboration tools by Google. Google Workspace @ BC Microsoft Office BC students may install one copy of Office for personal use. BC faculty & staff may only install Office on BC-owned computers. You can also use Office 365 Education, which is a collection of services that allows you to collaborate and share your work online. Microsoft Office @ BC think-cell think-cell is a Microsoft Office add-in that integrates seamlessly with PowerPoint and helps you visualize complex charts in minutes. think-cell @ BC Readers/Converters Adobe Acrobat Reader DC View and print PDF (Portable Document Format) files with Adobe Reader DC. Download Acrobat Reader DC How to Use Acrobat Reader DC Adobe Acrobat Pro DC (full version) View, print, create, manipulate, and manage PDF (Portable Document Format) files with Adobe Acrobat Pro DC. Adobe has moved to annual subscription licensing for Acrobat. Licenses must be purchased individually. Installed on computers in the BC Libraries Digital Studio (O'Neill 205). Important: You may no longer need Acrobat Pro DC. Learn about alternative ways you can create & work with PDFs without the use of Acrobat Pro DC below. Students: Accessible on computers in the BC Libraries Digital Studio (O'Neill 205). Subscriptions for Adobe Acrobat DC can be purchased from Adobe. Faculty and Staff: To get a subscription for Adobe Acrobat DC, work with your department to get approval and to purchase it. Note: The cost of Acrobat Pro DC licenses must be paid for by your department. BC Libraries Digital Studio Creating & Working with PDFs without Acrobat Pro DC Learn about the alternative ways you can create & work with PDFs without the use of Acrobat Pro (Professional) DC (Document Cloud) below. Print Open All Close All How do I work with PDFs using the free Acrobat Reader? The free Acrobat Reader can be used to view, search, print, sign, and annotate PDF files. See the table below for a comparison of the functionality of Acrobat Reader DC vs. Acrobat Pro DC. Acrobat Reader DC Acrobat Pro DC View PDFs View PDFs Print PDFs Print PDFs Sign PDFs Sign PDFs Fill out PDF forms Fill out PDF forms Annotate PDFs Annotate PDFs Search PDFs Search PDFs Create PDFs (see how to create PDFs using "Save As" below) Edit PDFs (many programs, including Microsoft Word, have the ability to edit PDF files) Convert PDF files with Word Combine PDFs Compare forms Protect PDFs How to Annotate PDFs Using Acrobat Reader DC How do I sign a PDF document or form? Signing can be done without using the full version of Adobe Acrobat Pro DC, Adobe Sign (Adobe’s E-Signature Service), or any other paid third party PDF signing application. Learn how to add digital signatures with Acrobat Reader DC. Sign a PDF Using Acrobat Reader DC (Mac & Windows) Acrobat Reader lets you sign PDFs and incorporate that signature into the file. Note: Some documents have security applied that prohibits electronic signatures. Print such documents and then sign the printed copy. To sign (or initial) using Acrobat Reader DC: Open the PDF document or form you want to sign (or initial) in Acrobat Reader. Note: If you are viewing a PDF on the web, download the PDF first before you sign it. If you are prompted to sign in to Adobe DC (Document Cloud), click "Skip." In the toolbar, select the Sign Tool . Important: DO NOT use the "Fill & Sign" Adobe Sign (Adobe’s E-Signature Service) in the sidebar menu, as this is a paid service & not necessary. Select "Add Signature" (or "Add Initials"). Select one of the 3 options: Type, Draw, or Image: Type in your signature (you can change the style & size). Draw your signature with a trackpad or mouse. Upload an image of your handwritten signature.* Once you have created a signature (or initials) to use, use the mouse to move your signature (or initials) into position on the page. Note: You can also add text, such as your name, company, title, or the date. Save the PDF. The signature (or initials) become part of the PDF. * Notes about using an image as your signature: Sign your name in black ink on a clean, blank sheet of white paper. Sign in the middle of the paper so you don't photograph or scan the edges. Photograph or scan your signature. If you are taking a picture of your signature, make sure that the page is lit and that no shadows fall across the signature. Transfer the photo or scan to your computer. Acrobat Reader accepts JPG, JPEG, PNG, GIF, TIFF, TIF, and BMP files. You do not need to crop the image. If the photo or scan is fairly clean, Acrobat Reader imports just the signature. Sign a PDF Using the macOS Preview App To sign using the macOS Preview app: Open the PDF document or form you want to sign in the macOS Preview app. Note: If you are viewing a PDF on the web, download the PDF first before you sign it. From the Tools menu, select "Annotate," then "Signature," then "Manage Signatures." Select to use either the Trackpad or Camera & follow the on screen instructions to create a signature. Once you have created a signature to use, use the mouse to move your signature into position on the page. Save the PDF. The signature becomes part of the PDF. Sign a PDF Using Acrobat Reader DC (iOS & iPad OS) To sign using Acrobat Reader DC (iOS & iPad OS): Open the PDF document or form you want to sign in Acrobat Reader. Click "Fill & Sign." In the lower right corner, click the Pen icon. Select either "Create signature" or "Create initials." Use your finger to sign (or initial) in the “Sign/Initial here" box. You can also select an image or use the camera. How do I create PDFs using "Save As"? Some applications let you use the "Save As" function to save documents as PDFs (without having Acrobat Pro DC). See the chart below to learn more. Mac Windows Microsoft Word Learn how to save as a PDF with Word Learn how to save as a PDF with Word Excel Learn how to save as a PDF with Excel Learn how to save as a PDF with Excel Powerpoint Learn how to save as a PDF with PowerPoint Learn how to save as a PDF with PowerPoint Project Requires Acrobat Pro DC Learn how to save as a PDF with Project Web Pages Learn how to save as a PDF of a web page Requires Acrobat Pro DC Mac Note: Learn how to save a document as a PDF on Mac using the "Print" dialog. What if I need to edit PDFs/PDF forms occasionally? Many programs, including Microsoft Word, have the ability to edit PDF files. If you need to edit PDFs/PDF forms occasionally (1-2 times a year), you can use a licensed copy of Acrobat Pro DC in the Digital Studio in O'Neill 205 or find a coworker with Acrobat Pro. Digital Studio in O'Neill 205 Still think you need Acrobat Pro? If you need to work with Acrobat Pro in your day-to-day work or need to create or work with PDFs in a way that is not accommodated by an alternative method (such as to edit PDFs, convert PDF files with Word, combine PDFs, compare forms, protect PDFs, collect e-signatures and comments), work with your department to get approval and to purchase it. Notes: The cost of Acrobat Pro DC licenses must be paid for by your department. Adobe pricing is based on an annual subscription that runs from August to the following August. Licenses are prorated, which means that licenses purchased throughout the year will be charged based on the number of months remaining in the subscription year. For Mac computers, only the Acrobat Pro DC version is available. Acrobat Pro Versions From Adobe Research Research Services provides technical assistance, training, tutorials, and workshops on the use of the software that supports research at Boston College. Research Software @ BC UIS BC UIS is no longer used for course registration at Boston College (as of April 7, 2021). How to Register for Courses at BC Mac To install BC UIS on macOS Catalina 10.15 and below: Download BC UIS for Mac. If you get a message stating that the software is from an unidentified developer, right-click (control-click) on the installer file and select "Open" to continue with the install. If you get a “System Extension Blocked” message, do the following within 30 minutes after installing the software: Open System Preferences > Security & Privacy. On the General tab, click “Allow” next to "System software from developer 'software_name' was blocked from loading. Save the .zip file to your Desktop. Double-click the .zip file and follow the on screen instructions to complete installation. Note: You may need to enter your Administrator password. Download BC UIS for Mac Windows To install BC UIS on Windows 10 and below (64-bit): Download BC UIS for Windows. Save the file to your Desktop. Double-click the downloaded file and follow the on screen instructions to complete installation. Download BC UIS for Windows Chromebooks or Tablets To access BC UIS on a Chromebook or Tablet (Android, iPad, Kindle Fire), use BC Apps. How to Use BC Apps Video Conferencing ITS supports Google Meet and Zoom for video conferences. Video Conferencing @ BC VPN (Virtual Private Networking) Use Eagle VPN (BC's VPN) to access specific computers or servers behind BC's firewall, such as those that contain confidential BC information or on campus computers with file-sharing enabled. VPN encrypts traffic between your computer and university-hosted services that have "bc.edu" in the web address (e.g., PeopleSoft, Agora Portal, and BC websites). VPN @ BC Quick Links Security Alerts & Tips Get Connected Canvas Agora Portal Back To Top Back To Top Information Technology Services 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4357 About Services Support Get in Touch help@bc.edu 617-552-4357 Live chat Walk-In Help Desk Request Tech Support Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College