Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Admission Visit Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Dean Stanton Wortham Mission & History About Carolyn and Peter Lynch Facts & Figures Contact Related Links Catholic Education Research Initiative Formative Education Initiative Admission Overview Why LSEHD? Tuition & Aid Deadlines & Requirements Request Info Related Links Undergraduate Admission & Aid Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Academics Overview Undergraduate Programs Applied Psychology and Human Development Elementary Education Secondary Education Transformative Educational Studies Lynch School Minors Interdisciplinary Majors Experience, Reflection, Action (ERA) Study Abroad Internal Transfer Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Professional & Continuing Education professional-certificates-instructional-design Certificate Programs Certificate in Human Rights and International Justice Certificate in Positive Youth Development Certificate in Child and Family Mental Health Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in International Higher Education Certificate in Institutional Research Certificate in Serving Exceptional Learners in Catholic Schools Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder Certificate in Bilingual Education Certificate in Deafblindness Certificate in Special Education Certificate in Teaching English Language Learners Online Programs Commencement Summer Session Departments CDEP Master of Arts (M.A.) in Mental Health Counseling Master of Arts (M.A.) in School Counseling Dual Master of Arts (M.A./M.A.) in Theology and Ministry and Counseling Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Counseling Psychology Counseling Practicum Applied Psychology Practicum z_archive applied-developmental-and-educational-psychology-ma /counseling-psychology-phd Test Page school-counseling mental-health-counseling counseling-psychology-phd Faculty & Expertise Counseling Practicum Program Offerings Admission Mission Program Aims & Learning Outcomes Student Admissions, Outcomes, & Other Data About Our Program Counseling Psychology Accreditation Professional Associations Academics & Training ELHE Educational Leadership and Policy, M.Ed. Master of Arts (M.A.) in Higher Education Higher Education Interview Days Master of Arts (M.A.) in International Higher Education Dual Degree Program (M.A./M.B.A.) Dual Degree Program (J.D./M.Ed./M.A.) Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Educational Leadership Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Higher Education _z_archive Certificate in Social Justice Leadership About Us Higher Education Scholars @ BC Blog higher-education-ma Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Information master-of-arts-in-higher-education-master-of-business-administra law-and-education-dual-degree-programs Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in Educational Policy Development Educational Leadership & Higher Education Blog Field Experience Program History Higher Education FAQ Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Mary Kinnane Award IDPG Master of Arts (M.A.) in Learning Engineering _z_archive MESA M.S. in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics M.A. in Research and Evaluation Methods Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment _z_archive Test New MESA Faculty Member Mission Statement Margeau Jong MESA Testimonials applied-statistics-and-psychometrics-ms Graduate Testimonials Graduate Voices MESA Students MESA Alumni & Employment Data MESA Research TCS Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Elementary Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Jesuit Education in a Global World Master of Education (M.Ed., C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Moderate Support Needs Master of Education in Secondary Education Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Extensive Support Needs Global Perspectives Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Curriculum and Instruction Special Education Licensure Offerings M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Moderate Support Needs M.Ed. in Moderate & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Secondary Education & Moderate Support Needs Urban Catholic Teacher Corps Student Teaching _z_archive Teacher Certification Related Links Programs of Study Student Teaching Academic Calendar Study Abroad Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Research Opportunities AERA 2022 Presentations APA 2021 Presentations Related Links News & Videos Academic Calendar Centers & Initiatives Overview Administrators in Catholic Higher Ed Catholic Education Research Community Justice & Engaged Pedagogy Early Childhood Policy Equitable Instruction Initiative Formative Education International Higher Ed International Human Rights Center for Thriving Children Psychological Humanities & Ethics Roche Center Testing, Evaluation, & Educational Policy The Campus School The Study of Race & Culture TIMSS & PIRLS International Study Center Urban Outreach Initiatives Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program Work Intervention Network Community Overview Mentoring & Advising Service Learning Living in Boston Global BC Resources Related Links Diversity & Inclusion Global Faculty Directory & Expertise BC Campus Life BC Veterans News & Videos Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Lynch School Website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Admission Visit Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Non-Degree Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close home Academics Departments TCS Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Extensive Support Needs Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Extensive Support Needs Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Extensive Support Needs TCS Teaching, Curriculum, and Society We prepare teachers to work with students who have moderate to severe intellectual disability, autism, and additional disabilities (such as visual impairment, deafness, cerebral palsy, and medical conditions). Additional specializations in deafblindness or autism are available. The Extensive Support Needs Program is founded on close linkages between current research and best practices in teaching. The program leads to eligibility for the Massachusetts teaching license in Extensive Disabilities. Apply INQUIRE Loading... At a Glance How many courses? Students already licensed: 10 courses (30 credits) Students not licensed: 15 courses (46 credits) How long will it take? Full-time students: typically 1 year, including summer courses Part-time students: typically 2 years When can I start? You can begin the program during the fall, spring, or summer semester. Curriculum Choose between a 46-credit or 30-credit program of study. The 46-credit hour program is for those who do not have a teaching license. The 30-credit program for those who already have a teaching license (in any area). Requirements Courses: 10 or 16 Credits: 30 or 46 Comprehensive Exam Program of Study Practicum 46-Credit Master's 30-Credit Master's 46-Credit Master's Core: 12 Courses Course Course Title Credit APSY 7418 Applied Child Development This course will help teachers understand principles of learning and cognitive, linguistic, social, and affective development as they apply to classroom practices. Students will focus on the acquisition of strategies that enable them to assess and understand how they and the children they work with are constructors of meaning. This course is designed for individuals beginning their professional development in education who plan to work with children. 3 EDUC7438 Instruction for the Special Needs of Diverse Learners This course focuses on the education of students with disabilities and other learners from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds. The goal of the course is to promote access to the general curriculum for all students through participation in standards-based reform. Universal Design for Learning (UDL) provides the theoretical framework for this course. Through an examination of historical milestones, landmark legislation, systems for classification, approaches to intervention, and the daily life experiences of diverse learners, students acquire knowledge about diversity and the resources, services, and supports available for creating a more just society through education. 3 EDUC7435 Social Contexts of Education Examines the role of situational, school, community, peer, and family factors on the education of children. Participants in the course will strive to understand the effects of their own social context on their education, to develop strategies to help students understand their context, and to understand and contribute to what schools can do to improve teaching and learning and school culture for all students regardless of internal and external variables. 3 EDUC7520 Mathematics and Technology: Teaching, Learning, and Curriculum in the Elementary School This course presents methods and materials useful in teaching mathematics to early childhood and elementary school children and the different ways in which technology can be used in the elementary school classroom. The course will consider the teaching of mathematics and the use of technology from both theoretical and practical perspectives. 3 EDUC7542 Teaching Reading Offers teacher candidates skills for teaching reading to school age children. Students will gain understanding of reading through a historical, political, theoretical, and practical lens. They will understand the delivery of instruction by learning a balanced approach to teaching reading. They will gain familiarity of how children learn to read by partaking in observations, assessments, and instruction with a school age child. Students will learn a variety of ways to meet the needs of linguistically and culturally diverse learners. They will recognize reading difficulties and learn ways to differentiate instruction for such readers. 3 EDUC7546 Teaching About the Natural World Provides an introduction to the various philosophies, practices, materials, and content that are currently being used to teach science to elementary and middle school children. Exposes prospective teachers to the skills and processes endorsed by the National Science Education Standards, the National Health Standards, and the Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System. 3 EDUC6374 Management of the Behavior of Students with Special Needs Focuses discussion, reading, and research on the diagnosis and functional analysis of social behaviors, places substantial emphasis on the practical application of applied behavior analysis techniques. Also discusses alternative management strategies for use in classrooms. 3 EDU6953 Introduction to Speech and Language Disability On the basis of the development of normal children, this course will explore dysfunctions of speech and language that interfere with normal communication and learning processes. The evaluation of language performance and the remediation of language deficits will also be stressed. 3 EDUC6495 Human Development and Disability This course addresses the reciprocal relationship between human development and disability. Prenatal, perinatal, and postnatal causes of disability will be presented. Students will learn about theoretical perspectives, research, and current disagreements related to causes, identification, and treatment of disabilities. Prevention and intervention strategies will be presented for each disability. The application of assistive technology will be covered across disabilities. EDUC6384 Teaching Strategies for Students with Multiple Disabilities This course is designed to assist the special educator in acquiring and developing both the background knowledge and practical skills involved in teaching individuals who have severe or multiple disabilities. The areas of systematic instruction, communication, gross motor, fine motor, community and school functioning, collaboration, functional and age-appropriate programming are emphasized. The role of the educator as developer of curriculum, instructor, and in the transdisciplinary team are included. The students should be prepared to participate in a one-day-per-week field placement. 3 EDUC6389 Assessment of Students with Low-Incidence and Multiple Disabilities This course addresses formal and informal assessment of students with intensive needs. Students will become familiar with assessments driven by both the developmental and functional paradigms. All assessment activities will be founded on the principle that appropriate assessment goes beyond the student to include consideration of the student's multiple contexts. This course also addresses the IEP, the legal mandates behind the process, and the collaborative role of the teacher, as part of the educational team, during the assessment and report writing processes. 3 EDUC6497 Interventions for Students with Autism Spectrum Disorders In this course students will learn strategies and purported mechanisms behind current intervention models designed for students with ASD. Student will be able to evaluate research evidence and claims of effectiveness of each intervention, and will design and implement appropriate interventions for student with ASD. 3 EDUC6540 Ed. Implications / Sensory, Motor, and Health Impairments This course addresses the impact of physical disabilities on learning. Emphasis is placed on the educational needs of children with cerebral palsy, visual impairment, or hearing loss in combination with intellectual disability. Basic anatomy of the eye and ear are covered along with the common causes of vision and hearing loss. This course prepares teachers to perform functional vision and hearing evaluations and to translate those findings into appropriate classroom accommodations and adaptations. Many children with disabilities have unmet sensory integration needs that influence their behavior and subsequent readiness to learn. 3 EDUC6686 Augmentative Communication for Individuals with Disabilities This course focuses upon the communication problems of persons who are developmentally disabled, physically challenged, hearing impaired, and deaf-blind. Students learn strategies for enhancing communication and learn how to develop and implement a variety of augmentative communication systems. 3 Practicum: 4 Courses Course Course Title Credit EDUC7431 Graduate Inquiry Seminar I The course will coincide with the pre-practicum experience. It is designed to introduce teacher candidates to inquiry as stance and the skills necessary to conduct classroom-based research that leads to pupil achievement and teaching for social justice. The course is designed to help teacher candidates mediate the relationships of theory and practice, pose questions for inquiry, learn through reflection and discussion, learn from their students and colleagues, construct critical perspectives about teaching, learning, and schooling, and to improve teaching and learning. The second part of this sequence is 432 which is taken in conjunction with full-time student teaching (EDUC7420). 1 EDUC7429 Graduate Pre-practicum This is a pre-practicum experience for students in graduate programs leading to certification. Placements are made in selected schools in the greater Boston area. Apply to the Office of Practicum Experiences and Teacher Induction during the semester preceding the placement by April 15 for fall placements and December 1 for spring placements. Students who are accepted into a program after the deadlines are requested to submit the application upon notification. 1 EDUC7432 Graduate Inquiry Seminar II The primary goal of this capstone seminar is to initiate teacher candidates into the practice of teacher research or collaborative inquiry for action. Collaborative Inquiry for Action is an ongoing, collaborative process of systematic and self-critical inquiry by educators about their own schools and classrooms in order to increase teachers' knowledge, improve students' learning, and contribute to social justice. This final project will be presented at a roundtable presentation at the end of the semester and also satisfies the M.Ed., MAT, MST Comprehensive Examination in Education. 2 EDUC7610 Clinical Experience A semester-long, full-time, five day a week practicum experience for graduate students seeking endorsement as a Teacher of Students with Moderate Disabilities or a Teacher of Students with Severe Disabilities. The course is designed to meet the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Educations requirements for endorsement from Boston College. Students will be guided by a qualified school-based mentor (Supervising Practitioner) and a university-based mentor (Program Supervisor). In addition to registering for the course, students must complete the online application during the semester preceding the placement by April 15 for fall placements and December 1 for spring placements. Contact the Office of Field Placement and Partnership Outreach at prac@bc.edu for more information. 6 Master's Comprehensive Examination Course Course Title Credit EDUC4100 Master's Comprehensive Exam In order to ensure that all students graduating from the master's program have a fundamental understanding of the field which they are about to enter, they are required to take a comprehensive examination covering the broad areas of the core courses. 0 30-Credit Master's Core: 7 Courses Course Course Title Credit EDUC6495 Human Development and Disabilities This course addresses the reciprocal relationship between human development and disability. Prenatal, perinatal, and postnatal causes of disability will be presented. Students will learn about theoretical perspectives, research, and current disagreements related to causes, identification, and treatment of disabilities. Prevention and intervention strategies will be presented for each disability. The application of assistive technology will be covered across disabilities. 3 EDUC6374 Management of the Behavior of Students with Special Needs Focuses discussion, reading, and research on the diagnosis and functional analysis of social behaviors, places substantial emphasis on the practical application of applied behavior analysis techniques. Also discusses alternative management strategies for use in classrooms. 3 EDUC6384 Teaching Strategies for Students with Multiple Disabilities This course is designed to assist the special educator in acquiring and developing both the background knowledge and practical skills involved in teaching individuals who have severe or multiple disabilities. The areas of systematic instruction, communication, gross motor, fine motor, community and school functioning, collaboration, functional and age-appropriate programming are emphasized. The role of the educator as developer of curriculum, instructor, and in the transdisciplinary team are included. The students should be prepared to participate in a one-day-per-week field placement. 3 EDUC6389 Assessment of Students with Low-Incidence and Multiple Disabilities This course addresses formal and informal assessment of students with intensive needs. Students will become familiar with assessments driven by both the developmental and functional paradigms. All assessment activities will be founded on the principle that appropriate assessment goes beyond the student to include consideration of the student's multiple contexts. This course also addresses the IEP, the legal mandates behind the process, and the collaborative role of the teacher, as part of the educational team, during the assessment and report writing processes. 3 EDUC6497 Interventions for Students with Autism Spectrum Disorders In this course students will learn strategies and purported mechanisms behind current intervention models designed for students with ASD. Student will be able to evaluate research evidence and claims of effectiveness of each intervention, and will design and implement appropriate interventions for student with ASD. 3 EDUC6540 Ed. Implications / Sensory, Motor, and Health Impairments This course addresses the impact of physical disabilities on learning. Emphasis is placed on the educational needs of children with cerebral palsy, visual impairment, or hearing loss in combination with intellectual disability. Basic anatomy of the eye and ear are covered along with the common causes of vision and hearing loss. This course prepares teachers to perform functional vision and hearing evaluations and to translate those findings into appropriate classroom accommodations and adaptations. Many children with disabilities have unmet sensory integration needs that influence their behavior and subsequent readiness to learn. 3 EDUC6686 Augmentative Communication for Individuals with Disabilities This course focuses upon the communication problems of persons who are developmentally disabled, physically challenged, hearing impaired, and deaf-blind. Students learn strategies for enhancing communication and learn how to develop and implement a variety of augmentative communication systems. 3 Practicum: 3 Courses Course Course Title Credit EDUC7431 Graduate Inquiry Seminar I The course will coincide with the pre-practicum experience. It is designed to introduce teacher candidates to inquiry as stance and the skills necessary to conduct classroom-based research that leads to pupil achievement and teaching for social justice. The course is designed to help teacher candidates mediate the relationships of theory and practice, pose questions for inquiry, learn through reflection and discussion, learn from their students and colleagues, construct critical perspectives about teaching, learning, and schooling, and to improve teaching and learning. The second part of this sequence is 432 which is taken in conjunction with full-time student teaching (EDUC7420). 1 EDUC7432 Graduate Inquiry Seminar II The primary goal of this capstone seminar is to initiate teacher candidates into the practice of teacher research or collaborative inquiry for action. Collaborative Inquiry for Action is an ongoing, collaborative process of systematic and self-critical inquiry by educators about their own schools and classrooms in order to increase teachers' knowledge, improve students' learning, and contribute to social justice. This final project will be presented at a roundtable presentation at the end of the semester and also satisfies the M.Ed., MAT, MST Comprehensive Examination in Education. 2 EDUC7610 Clinical Experience A semester-long, full-time, five day a week practicum experience for graduate students seeking endorsement as a Teacher of Students with Moderate Disabilities or a Teacher of Students with Severe Disabilities. The course is designed to meet the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Educations requirements for endorsement from Boston College. Students will be guided by a qualified school-based mentor (Supervising Practitioner) and a university-based mentor (Program Supervisor). In addition to registering for the course, students must complete the online application (https://bc-us.inplacesoftware.com/student) during the semester preceding the placement by April 15 for fall placements and December 1 for spring placements. Contact the Office of Field Placement and Partnership Outreach at prac@bc.edu for more information. 6 Master's Comprehensive Examination Course Course Title Credit EDUC4100 Master's Comprehensive Exam In order to ensure that all students graduating from the master's program have a fundamental understanding of the field which they are about to enter, they are required to take a comprehensive examination covering the broad areas of the core courses. 0 Learning Outcomes How to teach to the strengths and needs of all students with severe disabilities, including those with additional sensory disabilities To implement evidence-based practices and best practices to apply when assessing and teaching children with severe and multiple disabilities To be fully competent in writing the appropriate sections of the Individualized Education Plan (IEP) and as a participant in associated meetings To select assessment instruments appropriate to each child and to conduct assessments to produce findings that support valued and meaningful instruction To engage parents in the planning and generalization of their child’s educational program Plan, implement, and evaluate comprehensive communication systems in collaboration with others To teach content from the general curriculum as well as functional academics, skills of daily living, prevocational and vocational skills, play and social-emotional competencies to address the needs of the whole child Keep meaningful data on student learning and behavior and to make data-based decisions Create learning environments that promote engagement and learning Promote the learning and growth of all students through ethical, culturally proficient, skilled, and collaborative practice Student Teaching Professional experiences comprise early field experiences, referred to as pre-practicum placements, and an immersive, semester-long full practicum experience. Pre-practicum Graduate students complete a pre-practicum experience, which consists of one school day per week for 10 weeks. Full Practicum Full-practicum experience is five days each week in the classroom for the entire semester. Support You are guided by a qualified school-based mentor and a university-based mentor Licensure Designed to meet the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education's (DESE) requirements for endorsement from Boston College, leading to licensure. Variety of Settings Experience a range of urban and suburban public, private, parochial, and charter schools in Greater Boston Faculty View More View Less Financial Aid Education should level the playing field. We feel the same way about financial aid. The Lynch School of Education and Human Development provides more than $8.4 million in financial aid to students each year. As a result, the quality of BC’s instruction, the benefit of our alumni network, and the impact a BC degree will have on your employment options is both affordable and invaluable. More About Financial Aid Careers Roles Assistant Principal of Academics Fourth Grade Teacher Sixth Grade Teacher High School History Teacher Director of Exhibits Court Procedures Attorney First Grade Teacher Special Education Teacher Mathematics Instructor School Principal & ELL Coordinator Organizations St. John's Preparatory School Littleton Public Schools Papillion La Vista School District Concord-Carlisle Regional School District Museum of Science Goodwin Procter LLP Boston Public Schools Needham Public Schools Steppingstone Foundation North Attleborough Public Schools Accreditation We are an approved teacher preparation program by the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. LSEHD Licensure Disclosure Apply Print No prior teaching license is required for admission. Application & Deadlines Apply Now A non-refundable application fee of $75 is required; however, this fee is waived for select applicants. Deadlines Fall Regular Decision — 1/6 Rolling Admission — Until 7/15 Intl. Applicants — Until 7/1 Spring Regular Decision — 11/1 Summer Regular Decision — 4/1 Résumé To be uploaded to your online Application Form. In addition to your academic history and relevant work experience, please include any licenses currently held, any social justice-related experience, any language skills other than English, and any research experience or publications. Personal Statement To be uploaded to your online Application Form. In 1,000-1,500 words, describe your academic and professional goals, any experience relevant to this program, and your future plans, expectations, and aspirations. Letters of Recommendation Identification of recommenders/instructions to recommenders are outlined in the online Application Form. Two letters of recommendation are required with at least one required from an academic source. Applicants may submit one additional recommendation of their choice. Transcripts Unofficial transcripts will be accepted in lieu of official transcripts for the application review process. In the event that one is admitted into a program and enrolls, our office will need official transcripts prior to course registration. To expedite application processing times, our office encourages you to send unofficial transcripts electronically to our email address at GSOE@BC.EDU. Please note that unofficial transcripts must include all of the following items: Course titles and grades for each course Year and entry term for each of the courses listed Translated into English by certified translation agent (if not already in English) Original and translated transcripts must be provided If you are able to secure official transcripts, please note the following: An official postsecondary transcript must be printed on official institutional paper and include at least one of the following: an institutional watermark, the registrar’s signature, or the registrar's seal. Copies and unofficial transcripts sent directly from applicants are not acceptable, the transcript must come directly from the institution. If you are a current student and have not completed your undergraduate and/or graduate degree, the most updated version of your transcript is acceptable. Official electronic transcripts are accepted when sent directly to gsoe@bc.edu from the institution. When requesting electronic transcripts, you must manually type in gsoe@bc.edu to ensure it is received by our office. Mailed transcript(s) should be sent to the following address: Lynch Office of Graduate Admissions, Boston College Campion Hall 135 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Standardized Tests Submitting GRE test scores is optional and not required for 2022 entry term(s). If you wish to send GRE scores, the Lynch School GRE code is 3218. Writing Sample Not required. International Students International applicants are encouraged to apply to the Lynch School of Education and Human Development. Requirements for International Students Quick Links Facts & Figures Faculty Why LSEHD? Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Tuition & Aid Department TCS Teaching, Curriculum, and Society Contact Us gsoe@bc.edu 617-552-4214 Back To Top Back To Top Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Campion Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4200 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Community Apply Visit Give CONNECT WITH US Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College