Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Brown University Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Search Brown University Home About History People Leadership BRDD Peer Advisors Student Demographics Visit Academics Advising BRDD Peer Advisors Five-Year Planning BRDD Canvas Page Current Student Degree Combinations Capstones New Courses 2021-2022 BRDD Calendar (PDF) Student Resources Five-Year Planning International Students BRDD Canvas Page 2021-2022 BRDD Academic Calendar Student Life Housing and Dining New Students Orientation Year 2 Orientation Admissions Tuition & Aid Apply FAQs Visit Alumni Alumni Newsletter News and Events Annual Exhibition Events and Programs Home About History People Student Demographics Visit Academics Student Resources Student Life Housing and Dining New Students Year 2 Orientation Admissions Alumni News and Events Search Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program BRDD Community Slideshow Partial - Community Slides Monthly BRDD Brunch The BRDD community gathers monthly over brunch. Exhibition Public Reception The annual BRDD exhibition is an opportunity for the College Hill communities to come together. RISD Art Exhibitions BRDD students attending a RISD exhibition opening to support one another. Annual BRDD Exhibition A dedicated group of BRDD students from across the five cohorts, form a committee to jury, curate, and install the annual exhibition. Brown Convocation BRDD students participate in campus traditions, such as Brown convocation. Student Life Students enrolled in the Brown | RISD Dual Degree program are considered active students at both institutions throughout their five years. BRDD students have access to the resources and services of both institutions. Students in the program may also access support resources at either institution, including the support of staff members in the Division of Campus Life at Brown or the Office of Student Affairs at RISD. At both institutions there is always someone available during the day for crisis appointments and at other times through a staff on-call rotation schedule. For urgent situations, students may reach Brown’s Administrator-on-call (401-863-3322) during evenings and weekends. At RISD, the Department of Public Safety (401-454-6376) will be able to reach the appropriate staff member to assist students during an emergency. For me, I function better socially in a smaller group setting, so the Program is a great environment for me, as we are a fairly small group all going through the same experience, so the community sense is very strong. I appreciate that I can speak to upperclassman that as a freshman outside the program I may have never even met, let alone have a chance to talk to and get advice from. All the upperclassman peer advisors are extremely sweet and supportive and offer wonderful advice. It's also nice to know there are many people going through the same situations and experiences as you and who are willing to help you get through them. Lucy Shao BRDD 2022, Graphic Design and Chemical Physics Student Life Housing and Dining New Students Year 2 Orientation I have friends at both schools and I think I do not really consider Brown and RISD as two separate schools - they merge into the one big "school" that I attend. Objectively, these schools have a very tight connection anyways, and my friend circles at both schools do overlap. Being able to utilize resources from both schools is a really exciting aspect of this program. Jiaju Ma BRDD 2021, Industrial Design and Computer Science Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Box 1828 Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center, Suite 228 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9836 Fax: 401-863-1961 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top