Skip to main content Florida State University Search FSU Select Search Type FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Get to Know FSU About Florida State Administration Athletics FSU Facts FSU's Economic Impact Global FSU Land Acknowledgement Map of Campus Visitor Services News & Events Calendar of Events FSU Highlights & Rankings Press Research Initiatives Critical Thinking kNOw MORE FSU Tools & Resources Canvas Distance Learning Information Technology Services Libraries myFSU Service Centers and Help Desks Tutoring Policy & Safety Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Info FSU Regulations Police and Safety Policies Public Records Requests Strategic Plan Title IX Business & Employment Departments Directory Doing Business with Florida State Employment FSU Bookstore Human Resources Join Our Seminole Family Admissions Advocate for Florida State Alumni Association Giving to FSU Registrar Seminole Boosters Veterans Initiatives Close Menu Florida State University Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Athletics Florida State celebrates its 75th anniversary in seven sports in 2021-22 including football. Seminole athletics is recognized as one of the nation’s top all-around programs having finished 13 of the last 14 seasons ranked among the 20 best programs in the country, including 12 among the top 15. Last year alone, FSU played for the national title in women’s soccer and softball and the program has won 17 National Championships in its history. Florida State University Athletics Association The Florida State University Board of Trustees recently established a new Direct Service Organization, creating the Florida State University Athletics Association (FSUAA). The Board approved a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) jointly developed by FSU’s Athletics Department and Seminole Boosters, Inc. to provide greater alignment, transparency, coordination and efficiency for athletics-related fundraising, operations, marketing and management. Athletics Department In 2016-17 Florida State was the only FBS school in the nation to have each of its sports advance to the NCAA Postseason. Additionally, of the 128 schools that comprise the Football Subdivision, just two other schools joined Florida State in making the postseason in football, baseball, softball and men’s and women’s basketball. Since 2010, Seminole teams have qualified for NCAA postseason play in 147 of 154 opportunities. Bobby E. Leach Center FSU’s award-winning student recreational facility, the Bobby E. Leach Center, features extensive strength and cardiovascular training areas, aerobic classes, basketball and racquetball courts, a 16-lane indoor pool, and an indoor track. Free for students. Intramural Sports Play to win or play for fun, FSU’s Intramural Sports provide countless, year-round opportunities to compete with fellow students in a wide range of individual and team sports. Get registration periods, team schedules, sport rules, and more. Sports Clubs FSU has more than 40 active Sports Clubs featuring a variety of athletic and recreational pursuits, including instructional, social, competitive, and recreational clubs. Get club descriptions, news, and contact information. FSU Reservation and Challenge Program Scale the climbing wall, spike a volleyball, swim, sun, or sail at the FSU Reservation, FSU’s 73-acre lakefront property. The “Rez” is also home to the FSU Challenge, featuring high and low ropes courses and other teambuilding activities. Outdoor Pursuits Outdoor Pursuits offers a variety of exciting outdoor opportunities for students and staff. OP sponsors day and weekend trips during semesters, and rents camping equipment and other gear to students who want to plan their own adventures. Crenshaw Lanes A 12-lane bowling center located in the Oglesby Union in the heart of campus, Crenshaw Lanes has been an FSU tradition since 1964. Along with bowling, Crenshaw offers ten full-sized billiards tables. © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media