Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links UW Leadership Regents President Biography Vice presidents Invite the president Town Hall Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Office of the President Menu UW Leadership Regents President Biography Vice presidents Invite the president Town Hall Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Home Office of the President Presidential Blog May 24, 2022 Celebrating AANHPI Heritage Month and the promise of an inclusive nation Ana Mari Cauce May is recognized as National Asian American, Native Hawai’ian and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, and it’s our opportunity to recognize the diverse Asian American (AA) and Native Hawai’ian and Pacific Islander (NHPI) people, cultures and communities whose stories and contributions have always been – and continue to be – a vital part of our nation’s life. Read more May 16, 2022 We can all play a part in working to end racist violence Ana Mari Cauce As we grieve for the victims in Buffalo, we must examine our own responsibilities and capacity for reversing what has become a public health crisis. Read more May 4, 2022 Ending violence against Indigenous people starts with ending silence around it Ana Mari Cauce As a society and a community, we share a responsibility to raise awareness and end the crisis of violence affecting Indigenous women, girls, LGBTQIA+, and two-spirit people. This epidemic demands attention, resources and action. Read more April 6, 2022 On Husky Giving Day, we all have a chance to make a difference Ana Mari Cauce Each year, thousands of us take Husky Giving Day as an opportunity to make a difference for the UW people and programs most personally meaningful to us – that inspire us to use our capacity for creating positive change. Read more April 1, 2022 A historic restructure to improve cancer care and research Ana Mari Cauce I’m proud to share the formation of the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center – a single, independent, nonprofit organization focused on adult cancer research and care that is a clinically integrated part of UW Medicine and UW Medicine’s cancer program. Read more March 24, 2022 Celebrating women’s history requires honesty about the past Ana Mari Cauce In honoring Women’s History Month, our task is to build on the progress that has been made, while reflecting honestly on the ways in which it has not always been equitable, and to ensure that our efforts going forward are truly grounded in equity. Read more February 24, 2022 We stand with the people of Ukraine in the face of this heartbreaking attack Ana Mari Cauce This unprovoked attack on Ukraine has rightfully been condemned by leaders around the world and I join them in expressing my outrage at this assault. Read more February 14, 2022 Black History Month was always about Black history year-round Ana Mari Cauce The academy has a responsibility to ensure that Black history is part of American history, including in our curriculum, as a foundational component of our commitment to advancing racial equity and combatting systemic racism. Read more January 11, 2022 This MLK Week, find your place in the movement Ana Mari Cauce On Monday, Jan.  17, our institution will observe the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. We encourage all University of Washington students, staff, faculty and academic personnel to engage with the holiday in ways that are personally meaningful, and to consider what it means to infuse the values and ideas that Dr. King represented. Read more December 14, 2021 Through vision and empathy, Stan Barer, ’63 changed the world Ana Mari Cauce Across our University and far beyond it, we are mourning the passing of Stan Barer, ’63, a former regent, alumnus and dear friend. Through his enormous legacy of public service and philanthropy, Stan leaves the world a more equitable, open and prosperous place. Read more Next page Reimagining Safety at the University of Washington Creating learning, working and living environments that enable each of us to be successful requires a holistic approach to safety and well-being that brings together a range of resources in a coordinated, accountable manner. As we continuously evaluate the safety of our community, a rethinking of how we keep our University community safe is required. Learn More President’s Blog Celebrating AANHPI Heritage Month and the promise of an inclusive nation 6 days ago We can all play a part in working to end racist violence 2 weeks ago Ending violence against Indigenous people starts with ending silence around it 4 weeks ago On Husky Giving Day, we all have a chance to make a difference 2 months ago More Subscribe Email RSS President’s Twitter Tweets by amcauce Please enable JavaScript to view this widget. Invite the president Want President Ana Mari Cauce to attend your event? Submit a request. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA