Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Academic Success Center For New Students and Families Learn How to Learn. Strengthen Skills. Build Confidence and Independence. The Academic Success Center staff provide students with the support they need to be confident, independent and lifelong learners. We connect you with professional academic coaches and peer learning leaders who can show you new ways to learn. Center staff can help you define what success looks like for you. Success happens at the Center! Academic Coaching Academic Coaching Academic Coaching allows students to see themselves, their skills, and their study habits from a fresh perspective through one-on-one sessions focused on learning and personal success strategies. To learn more about Academic Coaching, click here! Course Support Services Tutoring and Peer-Led Learning PAL and Tutoring sessions provide students with the opportunity to master course concepts, ask questions, and effectively use their study time to learn and collaborate with other students. To learn more about these free services and to view the schedules, click the links below: Peer Learning Support Tutoring Peer-Assisted Learning (PAL) Success Strategy Workshops Interactive presentations that can help you sharpen your learning and thinking skills, increase your confidence and enhance your knowledge of success strategies and resources. To register for workshops, click here. Top 10 Things You Need to Know About the Center 75% of new students utilize one or more ASC services More than 96% of students who participated in our services would recommend us to their friends We provide free learning strategy handouts Our building has study areas for quiet individual study or small group meetings Students who participate in our services have a higher GPA than students who don’t participate Gain more insight into your learning and study strategies by taking the LASSI questionnaire You can download more than 20 self-guided success worksheets from our online learning page Pick up your free student planner! We provide planners with learning strategies, exam calendars, campus resources, and more. Students who participate in our services keep their scholarships at higher rates than students who don’t participate Our staff is about your success! When you succeed, we succeed Other Helpful Resources Guide to ASC Services and Resources (PDF) ASC Online Learning Resource page Strategies for Thriving in Online Courses Follow Us Facebook – CU Academic Success Center Instagram – @cuAcademicSuccessCenter Youtube – Clemson Academic Success Center Let Us Know How We Can Help Questions? Send an email to asc@clemson.edu Home About the Center About the Class of 1956 ASC Awards Academic Advising Success Matters CU 1000 For New Students and Families For Faculty and Staff For Prospective Student Employees Contact Us Related Links Academic Advising Academic Eligibility Policy Academic Forgiveness Policy Center for Career and Professional Development Catalog, Undergraduate Courses Counseling and Psychological Services Libraries Majors Ombuds, Undergraduate Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Student Accessibility Services Undergraduate Studies Writing Center Downloads ASC Annual Report Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram