Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Reform » Community Compliance Council » Values Set Navigation title in component Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Values Transparency Confidence in policing is based on transparency. All reform efforts, along with the policies, procedures and practices within the UCPD must be able to withstand public scrutiny. The CCC will ensure that all reform efforts will be transparent, with full openness and accountability to the public. This transparency will be modeled in all CCC processes, along with a comprehensive review of the UCPD. Information regarding the CCC and UCPD will be made available to the public. Legitimacy Legitimacy is the foundation of policing in our society. The CCC will work to help reestablish community trust and confidence in the UCPD. The UCPD will treat all citizens with dignity and politeness, and respect the constitutional rights of all. The CCC recognizes that this is a goal which will be achieved over time through continual effort and community outreach. Fairness It is of the utmost importance the UCPD practices are equitable. The CCC will strive to ensure that the policies, procedures, practices and training of the UCPD will be fair and impartial. The UCPD will be held to a standard in which policing is based on applied legal principles, facts of an incident, and input from all involved during a police-citizen encounter, regardless of individuals' race/ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, religion, citizenship status, disabilities or other differences. Collaboration The CCC will strive to be collaborative in nature, bringing a collective external voice to the UCPD reform efforts. Based on the diversity of experiences of its membership, the CCC will promote diversity of thought, ideas and information exchange. The CCC is comprised of civic leaders, community residents, faith leaders, corporate leaders and law enforcement officials, as well as UC faculty, staff, students and alumni. Innovation The CCC will identify the work necessary for the UCPD to reach its goal to become a national model for urban-university policing. Creating a national model will require more than reform - it will require innovation. The UCPD will be encouraged to use evidence-based practices, consistently measure outcomes, and make adjustments accordingly. The CCC will provide valuable input concerning how to continue to strengthen UCPD's relationship with the community, while continuing to innovate and create new methods to advance effective, efficient and equitable policing. Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top