Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information How to Cope When Daylight Saving Time Starts March 7, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Popularized as a way to save fuel by maximizing natural light during World War I and II, daylight saving time (DST), the practice of turning clocks ahead by one hour for several months, is controversial today. One hour may not seem like a big deal, but the transition is a cause of health issues and traffic accidents. Daylight saving time starts Sunday, March 13, 2022, in the United States and Canada. For best results, go to sleep and wake up 15 minutes earlier starting March 10. “We think of the clock's change as just changing the hours, but it's about alignment with people’s circadian rhythms,” says Alexandra Brown, MD, a physician with Columbia Primary Care, referring to the body’s 24-hour internal clock. “Deep brain connections are going on here.” The spring-forward side of the twice-yearly clock change is when negative effects are most severe. Sleep disorders specialist Carl Bazil, MD, PhD, explains: "The primary regulator of your internal clock is light, and you may get less morning light with this change. When you get up an hour earlier for DST, your body clock is still on standard time (at least at first), leading to more morning grogginess and a minor equivalent of jet lag." If your body clock is not in line with your sleep cycle, you can be off kilter, mentally and physically. When DST begins, hospital admissions and cardiovascular events, like heart attacks, rise. Studies also show the clock misalignment can cause changes at the cellular level. Daylight saving time around the world More than 60% of the world uses standard time year-round, never switching to DST. And every year another country joins that group. In 2019, the European Parliament decided to permanently eliminate DST in the European Union, though the change has been postponed by the pandemic. Other countries are working toward the same goal. On the other side of the Atlantic—and point of view—some members of U.S. Congress have recently proposed eliminating standard time, pushing to make DST permanent. Current U.S. law allows states to renounce DST (looking at you, Hawaii and Arizona), but abandoning standard time is not allowed. On March 13, 2022, most U.S. states will switch to DST. Standard time resumes Nov. 6, 2022. How to combat the effects of changing clocks Wherever you are when a clock change happens, there are ways to minimize the effects. Brown and Bazil advise patients: Shift your sleep schedule in advance, by 15 minutes. Go to bed and wake up 15 minutes earlier each day for two or three days before the clocks change. Avoid light stimulation, like electronic screens, one hour before bedtime. Take a walk outside within two hours of waking up, especially if the sun is shining. Spend time in the glow of a sunlight-mimicking lamp. Lights that mimic outdoor light can help regulate circadian rhythm. Talk to your doctor if your physical or mental health remains off after one week. Know how and when to use melatonin. As little as 1 mg, one hour before bedtime, tells your brain it’s time to wind down. For DST, use for one week and stop. Drink one cup of coffee or tea. Caffeine can help with minor symptoms of fatigue in the morning, but not to excess and not at night. “You cannot use caffeine copiously to stay awake,” says Brown. “That works against you.” References Carl Bazil, MD, PhD, is director of the Sleep Disorders Center at Columbia University Irving Medical Center and professor of neurology at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. Alexandra Brown, MD, is a primary care physician specializing in family medicine at Columbia Primary Care and assistant professor of medicine at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top