Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Ceremonies Commencement at Husky Stadium – June 11 School & Department Ceremonies Return to Husky Stadium Graduation Celebration – June 12 Graduates Graduation Checklist Eligibility Student Cap and Gown Student instructions Disability Accommodations for Graduates Public Health Guidance After Graduation Guests Tickets Disability Accommodations Parking Public Health Guidance International Travel Transportation and Lodging Grad Shop Faculty and Marshals Faculty Regalia Ordering 2022 Faculty and marshal instructions Contact Us UW Commencement Menu Home Ceremonies Commencement at Husky Stadium – June 11 School & Department Ceremonies Return to Husky Stadium Graduation Celebration – June 12 Graduates Graduation Checklist Eligibility Student Cap and Gown Student instructions Disability Accommodations for Graduates Public Health Guidance After Graduation Guests Tickets Disability Accommodations Parking Public Health Guidance International Travel Transportation and Lodging Grad Shop Faculty and Marshals Faculty Regalia Ordering 2022 Faculty and marshal instructions Contact Us Home UW Commencement 2022 Graduation COMMENCEMENT June 11, 2022 Husky Stadium Doors open at 12:30 p.m. Procession begins at 1:30 p.m. Learn more Welcome to Commencement 2022 On June 11, Huskies from around the world will once again take the field at Husky Stadium to celebrate their accomplishments in front of 40,000 proud family members, friends and guests. President Cauce and the leadership of the University will be there to confer degrees as each graduates makes that once-in-a-lifetime walk across the 4,000-square-foot stage, adorned with life-size replicas of the four ionic columns that graced the Territorial University over 150 years ago. READY, SET, GO! Get ready to participate in Commencement by visiting our 2022 Graduation Checklist page. GRADUATION CHECKLIST REGISTRATION The Registration/Order Form is now open until May 22. REGISTRATION FORM PUBLIC HEALTH GUIDANCE All public health guidance will be followed for this ceremony. As this situation is rapidly changing, check here for updates as the ceremony nears. CURRENT GUIDANCE Four-time Tony Award-winning producer and UW alum Ron Simons will be the featured speaker at the University of Washington’s 147th Commencement exercises in Husky Stadium, June 11. Read more about Mr. Simon’s amazing career and accomplishments on UW News. UW NEWS Graduation is a big deal! Announce it to the world! The University has licensed three companies to provide announcements for graduates and proud parents. ORDER ANNOUNCEMENTS Grad Gifts You can find a variety of graduate gifts including jewelry, frames and flowers on our Mementos and Flowers page. ORDER GIFTS Academic Attire All apparel is provided by Oak Hall Cap & Gown. You will order cap & gown when you complete the Registration/Order Form (available on this website, May 4). CAP & GOWN Share the excitement! Keep us up-to-date on your graduation celebrations using #uwgrad22! Commencement Program Only those students who received degrees Summer 2021, Autumn 2021, Winter 2022, and the candidates of Spring 2022 are named in this year’s Commencement program. If you are receiving a degree during Summer Quarter 2022, your name will be listed in the following year’s Commencement program. Please contact the Office of Ceremonies to request a copy of next year’s program. UW Partners UW Alumni Association ICA Senior Gift Connect with us We look forward to celebrating your accomplishments! Share your graduation memories with us using #uwgrad22 in your graduation related posts on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. Maybe you will see your post on the big screen at the commencement ceremony! If you have any questions, please contact commence@uw.edu. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA