Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Menu BC Magazine Nav Search Close About Podcasts Class Notes Past Issues Contact Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Fall 2021 ISSUE Operation Deep Freeze Joe Dobbratz ’51 is one of the select few BC alumni to have a glacier named for him. This is the incredible story of how it happened. Haf Time His star quarterback may be out for the season, but with a couple of the best recruiting classes in program history and big plans for the future, Head Coach Jeff Hafley has Boston College football soaring once again. She Runs the Show Deirdre Connolly ’97 is remaking late-night television as the head producer of the hit Bravo network show Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen. A Guiding Light Steve Pemberton ’89 on The Lighthouse Effect, his new book about those who guide us along life’s voyage. The Gourmet Guru Valerie Gurdal ’85 has been enlightening palates for decades at her shop Formaggio Kitchen. Ode to Mary Ann's A look back at the beloved Boston College dive bar, which is slated to become a marijuana dispensary. From Mary Ann's to Mary Jane It's the end of an era in Cleveland Circle. The Sound of Success A new country music podcast from the Boston deejay Candy O’Terry ’79 is winning fans and awards. Raising the Bar Kimberly Addison ’12 celebrates her Ghanaian heritage through chocolate. Finishing Touches Six new statues of Jesuit saints bring beauty and meaning to St. Mary’s Hall. Champions at Last After three hard losses in the championship game, BC women’s lacrosse won the national title. Alexander Philiphose M’74 The oldest volunteer currently in the Peace Corps Response Program discusses service. Friendly Rivals These two former BC roommates are orthopedic physicians for competing NFL teams. Peanut Power After fighting malnutrition across the globe, Navyn Salem ’94, H’12, tackles hunger closer to home. The Influence of Social Networks Group dynamics may help encourage the adoption of cleaner cooking fuel in India. Alex Gray '06 The Boston policy manager, who is blind, talks about the importance of representation in government. Kaiti Jones MSW’17 The singer-songwriter discusses her sophomore album, Tossed. Design Visionaries Four BC-educated interior designers are changing the look and feel of Boston. Beyond Privacy How democracy can survive in the digital age. Around the Table BC alum Liz Hauck chronicles her time leading a cooking class for teens in state care. Kwasi Sarkodie-Mensah Insights from the beloved Boston College librarian. Play for Equality Natalie White is changing the conversation around women's basketball with Moolah Kicks. Campus Digest: Fall 2021 News and happenings from around Boston College. Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College