Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Overview University Facts Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Maps & Directions About Cornell Your browser does not support this video. Welcome to Cornell Knowledge for the greater good We have taken to heart the revolutionary spirit that founded our university and encourage each other to pursue unpredicted lines of thinking in order to effect change on local and international scales. Public Engagement Diversity Sustainability Cornell Leadership Cornell Campuses & Locations Main Campus Ithaca, NY Main Campus Ithaca, NY Located in Ithaca, NY, Cornell's main campus provides the experience of the traditional college campus: eateries, residence halls, academic buildings, libraries, and research facilities. But its natural beauty—the nearby lake, natural waterfalls, and gardens—set the campus apart from others in the Ivy League. Explore Ithaca Campus 570 Lexington Avenue New York, NY 570 Lexington Avenue New York, NY Visit Site Cornell Tech New York, NY Cornell Tech New York, NY Visit Site Shoals Marine Lab Portsmouth, NH Shoals Marine Lab Portsmouth, NH Visit Site Architecture Studios Rome, Italy Architecture Studios Rome, Italy Visit Site Cornell AgriTech Geneva, NY Cornell AgriTech Geneva, NY Visit Site Weill Cornell Medicine New York, NY Weill Cornell Medicine New York, NY Visit Site Wolpe Center Washington, D.C. Wolpe Center Washington, D.C. Visit Site Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar Doha, Qatar Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar Doha, Qatar Visit Site 570 Lexington Avenue New York, NY 570 Lexington Avenue New York, NY Visit Site Cornell Tech New York, NY Cornell Tech New York, NY Visit Site Shoals Marine Lab Portsmouth, NH Shoals Marine Lab Portsmouth, NH Visit Site Architecture Studios Rome, Italy Architecture Studios Rome, Italy Visit Site Cornell AgriTech Geneva, NY Cornell AgriTech Geneva, NY Visit Site Weill Cornell Medicine New York, NY Weill Cornell Medicine New York, NY Visit Site Wolpe Center Washington, D.C. Wolpe Center Washington, D.C. Visit Site Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar Doha, Qatar Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar Doha, Qatar Visit Site 570 Lexington Avenue New York, NY 570 Lexington Avenue New York, NY Visit Site Cornell Tech New York, NY Cornell Tech New York, NY Visit Site Shoals Marine Lab Portsmouth, NH Shoals Marine Lab Portsmouth, NH Visit Site Architecture Studios Rome, Italy Architecture Studios Rome, Italy Visit Site Cornell AgriTech Geneva, NY Cornell AgriTech Geneva, NY Visit Site Weill Cornell Medicine New York, NY Weill Cornell Medicine New York, NY Visit Site Wolpe Center Washington, D.C. Wolpe Center Washington, D.C. Visit Site Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar Doha, Qatar Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar Doha, Qatar Visit Site 570 Lexington Avenue New York, NY 570 Lexington Avenue New York, NY Visit Site Cornell Tech New York, NY Cornell Tech New York, NY Visit Site Shoals Marine Lab Portsmouth, NH Shoals Marine Lab Portsmouth, NH Visit Site Architecture Studios Rome, Italy Architecture Studios Rome, Italy Visit Site Cornell AgriTech Geneva, NY Cornell AgriTech Geneva, NY Visit Site Weill Cornell Medicine New York, NY Weill Cornell Medicine New York, NY Visit Site Wolpe Center Washington, D.C. Wolpe Center Washington, D.C. Visit Site Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar Doha, Qatar Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar Doha, Qatar Visit Site See All Locations Quick Facts Location Ithaca, New York Founded 1865 Identity Private university, public mission Mascot Big Red Bear 23,620 Students 1,695 Professors 50 Nobel Laureates $281M undergraduate grant aid (FY20) See All University Facts Our Profile Cornell is a privately endowed research university and a partner of the State University of New York. As the federal land-grant institution in New York State, we have a responsibility—unique within the Ivy League—to make contributions in all fields of knowledge in a manner that prioritizes public engagement to help improve the quality of life in our state, the nation, the world. Campus Maps & Directions Cornell University Ithaca, New York 14850 (607) 254-4636 View Campus Maps Visiting Cornell Campus Tours Cornell History 1844 Success, Loud and Clear While working for Samuel Morse, Ezra Cornell devises a way to use electricity and magnetism to string telegraph wires on glass-insulated poles aboveground. He takes much of his pay in stock, becoming the largest stockholder of Western Union. The success of the telegraph enables him to found Cornell University in 1865. 1862-1868 Radical Beginnings President Lincoln signs the Morrill Act into law. New York State Governor Fenton signs the Cornell charter. Together, these signatures establish Cornell as New York's first land grant university. Ezra Cornell states: "Finally, I trust we have laid the foundation of an University—an institution where any person can find instruction in any study." 1868 Chimes Ring Out Over the Hill The original set of nine bells first ring out from ground level at the University's opening ceremonies October 7, 1868. In 1873 they find a permanent home in McGraw Tower and have since been recast and expanded to 21 bells. They continue to ring daily concerts, making them one of the largest and most frequently played chimes in the world. 1875 Coeducation: The 'Great Experiment' Sage College welcomes 25 female students, making Cornell a pioneer in coeducation and attracting many applicants. Early graduates include two college presidents, Julia Josephine Thomas Irvine (Wellesley) and Martha Carey Thomas (Bryn Mawr); a publisher and author, Ruth Putnam; and noted Cornell professor and scientist, Anna Botsford Comstock. 1906 '...We Shall Transcend All.' Seven Cornell undergraduates found the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity on campus. Initially started as a study and support group, it becomes the first intercollegiate fraternity for African-American men in the nation and quickly evolves into an organization built on defending the rights of African-Americans through social action. 1940 75 Years of Cornell Scholarship In an address marking the 75th anniversary of the signing of the Cornell University charter, distinguished teacher, scholar and historian Carl L. Becker captures the spirit of the university with a phrase that would become a Cornell trademark: freedom and responsibility. 1967 Innovation Underground At its opening, the Wilson Synchrotron is Cornell's largest single construction and the world's largest particle accelerator, for use in physics, materials science and biology. With expansions over the years, the facility includes a tunnel buried 40 feet beneath Cornell's track complex, creating a giant ring with a half-mile circumference. 1969 Occupy Cornell A burning crucifix on the porch of the Wari House Black women's housing cooperative compels more than 100 members of the Afro-American Society to occupy Willard Straight Hall for a day and a half. Soon after, 5,000 students take over Barton Hall in support of the Society's demands, prompting decades of sociocultural and political change on campus. 1972 Sagan Greets Aliens Pioneer 10 begins a 3,000-light-year voyage, the first spacecraft to travel beyond our solar system. In hope of communicating with extraterrestrials, NASA enlists Cornell astronomers Frank Drake and Carl Sagan to design a pictorial greeting. The image depicts Earth as the origin of the message. 1977 The Grateful Dead Play Cornell Based solely on audience recordings, future Grateful Dead Archivist Dick Latvala declares one show in the band's 1977 tour possibly their best performance ever. That show? The Grateful Dead's concert in Barton Hall on May 8, 1977. The show becomes a "you had to be there" moment and recordings of it are a must-have in any fan's collection. 1991 A Home for “All of Us” Akwe:kon residence hall opens its doors, becoming the first university residence in the U.S. built to celebrate North American Indigenous heritage. Akwe:kon, which means “all of us” in the Mohawk language, is envisioned as a means for teaching people about Indigenous cultures and histories and is home to innovative and successful intercultural programming in conjunction with Cornell’s American Indian and Indigenous Studies Program. Cornell later celebrates the Cayuga Nation with the naming of Ganędagǫ: Hall in 2021. 1997 The Pumpkin That Scaled a Tower In October, a hollowed-out pumpkin appears atop the spire of McGraw Tower, attracting months of international attention. It sits there, unreachable, for five months until workers testing crane equipment accidentally knock it down. The mystery of how the pumpkin made it there to begin with remains unsolved. 2004 Mars Rover Program is a Go Twin Mars rovers Spirit and Opportunity land on Mars, embarking on three-month missions led by Cornell astronomy professor Steve Squyres. Extensive data collected by the rovers in the ten years since have provided new insights into the possibility of water on the red planet and the general composition of Mars. 2008 Water for the People A student-designed water plant brings clean, treated water to the Honduran town of Támara as part of Cornell's AguaClara Project. Led by civil and environmental engineer Monroe Weber-Shirk, the project works with students and villagers to bring cost-effective, municipal-scale water treatment technologies to communities in Honduras and now India. 2010 Pipe Dreams Realized A new baroque organ debuts to a full house in Anabel Taylor Chapel. Construction of the massive, 1,827-pipe instrument—the first in the world to be equipped with wind systems that let it reproduce sounds exactly as Bach and other period composers intended—employed authentic 18th-century techniques. 2017 Cornell Tech, Designed for Impact The first phase of Cornell Tech opens on Roosevelt Island, close to the heart of New York City. The campus is a space where graduate students focus on the intersection between technology and entrepreneurship, allowing it to become the urban nexus for fast-tracking tech solutions that have immediate relevance to New York City and the world. Loading... Continue Exploring … Back to top Colleges & Schools Research Land Grant Cornell Leadership Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube