Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home People Our Faculty Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Monette Zard Monette Zard Monette Zard Allan Rosenfield Associate Professor of Forced Migration and Health Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Director, Program on Forced Migration and Health Office/Address: 60 Haven Avenue, B433C New York NY USA 10032 Phone: 212-342-5205 Email: mz2621 [at] cumc [dot] columbia [dot] edu CV: Download PDF Biography Education Mailman Affiliations Editorial Boards Columbia Affiliations Academic Appointments Other Affiliations Honors & Awards Areas of Expertise Select Urban Health Activities Select Global Activities Select Publications Back to Top Biography Monette Zard is an expert on forced migration and human rights, and her career has spanned the fields of policy, advocacy and philanthropy. She has served as the Global Human Rights Program Officer at the Ford Foundation in New York and as Research Director at the International Council on Human Rights Policy in Geneva, Switzerland, a think tank focused on applied human rights research. Her work there explored issues of political violence and the human rights obligations of armed groups, economic and social rights and human smuggling. From 2000-2003, she was a Policy Analyst at the Migration Policy Institute in Washington D.C. and held a visiting research fellowship in law at the Refugee Studies Centre, Oxford University. Prior to that, she directed the international refugee work of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, during which time her work focused on the use of legal strategies to strengthen refugee protection in Africa as well as the particular issue of how international law should deal with refugees and asylum-seekers accused of committing serious international crimes. She has consulted on international human rights and forced migration issues for a number of organizations including Amnesty International, the Brookings Institute, Human Rights Watch and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Education BA, 1993, Newnham College, Cambridge University MA, 1996, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University Select Publications Why Macroeconomics Matters for Realizing the Right to Health, Radhika Balakrishnan and Monette Zard, November 2017 (co-author). Funding Effective Human Rights Work: A Conversation between Monette Zard and Sara Hossein, Volume 8, Issue 3 of the Journal Of Human Rights Practice, University of York, November 2016 (interactive dialogue, moderated by Brian Philips). Strengthening Grantee Safety and Security: Review of Donor Practice and Recommendations for the Ford Foundation, Internal Report, New York, 2015 (author). Human Smuggling and Trafficking: the Good, the Bad and the Ugly, Issue 25 of the Forced Migration Review, Refugee Studies Center, University of Oxford, May 2006 (co-author). A Survey of Trends and Issues in Forced Migration, Ford Foundation Internal Report, October 2005 Monette Zard and Kathleen Sullivan (co-author). Towards a Comprehensive Approach to Protecting Refugees and the Internally Displaced, MPI/Brookings Monograph, Washington D.C., July 2005 (author). Reprinted in: “Human Rights and Refugees, Internally Displaced Persons and Migrant Workers Essays in Memory of Joan Fitzpatrick and Arthur Helton,” edited by Anne F. Bayefsky, Martinus Nijhoff Publishers, Leiden and Boston, 2006 (author). Talking about Terrorism, Risks and Choices for Human Rights Organizations, International Council on Human Rights Policy, Geneva, 2008 (co-author). Human Rights Strengthen the Migration Policy Framework, Migration Information Source, www.migrationinformation, March 2005 (author). Back to Top Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers