Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Menu BC Magazine Nav Search Close About Podcasts Class Notes Past Issues Contact Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Photos: Caitlin Cunningham Odds and Ends A look at the eclectic collection of scientific gizmos maintained by Chemistry Professor Emeritus T. Ross Kelly. By Elizabeth Clemente Summer 2022 print mail In the early 1980s, Boston College Chemistry Professor T. Ross Kelly was passing a newspaper stand in Italy when an unusual hat caught his eye. It appeared to have a ball levitating above it, thanks to a built-in air jet. Kelly was fascinated by the hat’s mechanics, so he bought it—the first purchase in what would become his “Curiosity Cabinet,” an extensive collection of objects that demonstrate scientific principles or seem to defy logic. During the latter half of his five-decade teaching career at BC, he amassed around 100 gizmos and toys in his office in the Merkert Chemistry Center. Some of them Kelly even built himself, such as a hairspray-powered potato cannon fashioned from a PVC pipe. (He fired it off the roof of the Beacon Street parking garage into Alumni Stadium.) In 2014, Kelly digitized the collection. Two graduate students filmed him demonstrating dozens of his gadgets and uploaded the footage to YouTube. Last spring, one of the videos, depicting gravitational illusions, went viral. It has been viewed more than 27 million times, and several other videos on Kelly’s YouTube channel have been watched hundreds of thousands of times. Kelly may have retired from BC in 2019, but he remains on the hunt for new curiosities. “I’m always looking, because once you have it, the fun part’s over,” he said. “Except when you’re sharing it with somebody.” Seemingly Impossible Nail Kelly enjoys items that appear to defy logic, such as this captive nail. The secret is steam: By steaming a wood block, Kelly was able to compress the tooth on the end in a vice, drill holes, and slide the nail through the middle teeth. He then steamed it again, causing the collapsed tooth to expand to its original shape and “trap” the nail. Carbide Cannon When water and carbide—a compound made from carbon and lime—are deposited into this cannon’s main chamber, they produce the gas acetylene, which turns explosive when mixed with oxygen. A spark ignites the gas, causing a loud bang. Center-of-Mass Bird This bird appears to defy gravity by balancing at an angle without much supporting it. The trick is that the bird’s center of mass is distributed across its wings, allowing it to stay in place without toppling over—thus demonstrating the physics principle of mass distribution. Galileo Thermometer When the water inside this thermometer warms up, it becomes less buoyant, which causes some of the multicolored liquid-filled balls inside to sink. After the balls settle, a Celsius degree marker on the outer glass lines up with the top resting ball, indicating the temperature. Radiometer Sunlight causes this device’s interior squares to spin. One side of each square is black, allowing it to absorb light energy and radiate infrared light. This light warms gas nearby in the glass spheres, causing the vanes to rotate. More Stories Kids and Disasters As catastrophic events become more frequent, BC's Betty Lai is researching how to promote recovery and resilience in children. How the Post Office Shaped U.S. Literature BC Professor Christy Pottroff explores snail mail’s contribution to our literary tradition. Guy Beiner The new Sullivan Chair in Irish Studies on how we remember our past, and why it matters. A Social History of BC Clough Millennium Professor Emeritus of History James O’Toole discusses his new book about Boston College. Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College