Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Division of Research and Innovation About Vision, Mission, & Values Researchers Business & Partners News Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Researcher Resources Identify Interest Getting StartedCommon Funding OpportunitiesInternal Funding OpportunitiesCollaboration and Networking ERA Getting StartedCayuse TrainingImportant FormsSponsor News & Updates Route & Submit Getting StartedElectronic Research AdministrationPI EligibilityResearch Forms & GuidesSponsor Guidance Research Compliance Getting Started Human Subjects (IRB) Research Data Security Financial Conflict of Interest Animal Care (IACUC) Export Controls Award & Grants Getting StartedSponsored AgreementsAdvance AccountsNon-Financial Post-AwardReports and DeliverablesSubaward AdministrationClosing the Award Training Resources Training CalendarCurrent Training ResourcesArchive of Past TrainingFIT Training ResourcesCayuse TrainingCoRS Training How do I? Institutional Information Research Forms Take Action For Researchers For Business Strategic Goals & Tactical Plan Contact Us @UofMemphis FacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Division of Research and Innovation Researchers Export Control Export Controls COVID-19 Travel Information: Updated Information regarding travel related to COVID-19 concerns is available at FAQ. International Travel Briefing When traveling abroad, taking certain items, providing certain services or meeting with certain people can present export control concerns for University of Memphis (UM) faculty, staff, students and postdoctoral scholars ("UM affiliates"). This page provides us with guidance on how to avoid running afoul of the export control laws when travelling internationally. Travel to most countries does not present an export control concern. However, travel to some countries heightens concern. These concerns may be easily managed, provided we create and maintain records that show we found the travel to be exempt from existing regulations. In some cases, an export control license is required for travel. It is crucial that we obtain the necessary license prior to the trip. Violations of export control laws carry severe civil and criminal penalties. Applicable Regulations When traveling internationally, UM affiliates need to be familiar with export control regulations and policies. Specifically, UM affiliates need to determine whether the following regulations apply to them: U.S. Department of Commerce's Export Administration Regulations (EAR) These regulations govern hardware, materials, equipment, software, technology and technical data that have both civilian and inherent military or defense application. Controlled items are identified on the Commerce Control List (CCL). EAR controls are specific and based on the combination of 1) destination, 2) end use, and 3) item specifications and capabilities. U.S. Department of State's International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) These regulations govern 1) defense articles, including hardware, materials, equipment, software, technology and technical data specifically designed or modified for defense or military application without civil performance or use equivalent; and 2) defense activities, including disclosing ITAR technical data (or data related to a defense article) to foreign nationals, or disclosing technical data (even if not controlled or in the public domain) to a foreign national or related organization affiliated with a military purpose. U.S. Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Controls (OFAC) These regulations restrict transactions with a specified list of embargoed countries and with certain "specifically designated nationals." For the purposes of UM affiliates, restrictions that are most likely to affect UM exports include travel to Cuba, Iran, Syria and Sudan. See Sanctions Program and Country Summaries and the EAR's Part 746 embargoes pages for more specific information. Evaluating Whether the Regulations Apply to You In evaluating whether any of the regulations apply to your travel, you need to consider: Whether you plan to take any controlled items or data with you; the most common items that present export control issues are laptops, jump drives, handheld GPS devices, blueprints or schematics, encryption products and prototypes or samples that happen to be portable; Whether you plan to send or deliver any controlled items or data to non-US persons; Whether your laptop or other storage device you are taking out of the country has controlled data or information stored on it; Whether the country to which you are traveling has any OFAC restrictions; Whether you will be doing business (including engaging in money transactions or the exchange of goods or services) with certain people or entities that are considered "specially designated nationals" Whether you will be supplying certain technologies or data at a "closed" conference or meeting (not open to all technically qualified members of the public, and attendees are not permitted to take notes) Necessary Actions If you believe any of the regulations might apply to you, you should take the following steps in consultation and collaboration with the research compliance staff in the Export Controls Officer in the Division of Research & Innovation: Determine whether any license exemptions may apply to your activity. For example, an exemption for "tools of trade" used in research may be available depending on the circumstances. (This exemption requires the items or data remain in your personal control at all times, which may not be feasible.) Lawful involvement of foreign nationals in controlled activities while at UofM may not automatically extend to laboratory or field research sites outside of the U.S. Hence, foreign national involvement in research being conducted outside the U.S. may require prior agency authorization.; Determine whether an export license or authorization from the appropriate government agency is required prior to the intended travel; Obtain an export license, when necessary. The Export Controls Officer in the Division of Research and Innovation submit all requests for licenses on behalf of UofM. Be sure to contact the Export Controls Officer well in advance of your planned travel dates, as obtaining a license may take 30 days or longer. Helpful Tips When Traveling Internationally Use your best judgment in communicating with foreign nationals, and be alert to situations that may result in inadvertent inappropriate or illegal disclosure of controlled information or data; Avoid situations that lead to providing advice or assistance outside of fundamental research parameters; Do not discuss controlled or sensitive information (for example, proprietary information that you may happen to have) in public places; Always keep controlled or sensitive items, information or data secure; Maintain a "need-to-know" policy when discussing work-related information with others; Do not leave equipment, documents or data in your hotel safe; Ensure that UofM has a way of getting in touch with you if necessary. Research Compliance Training Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/24/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.