Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media To See and Shape the Future of Education: Loyola Rankin, HEP'22 Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram News & Events To See and Shape the Future of Education: Loyola Rankin, HEP'22 The Intellectual Contribution Award recipient for Higher Education reflects on her time at HGSE and looks toward the future. By News editor May 20, 2022 Read more about the Intellectual Contribution Award winners and other stories about Commencement 2022. "At AOCC with Isaac Moore, a dear friend made [over] Zoom. This was the first time we met in person. We shared so many struggles via Zoom during FIERCE meetings and outside. We have DMed during courses to share our personal thoughts as Indigenous people in higher ed. It was a special moment and I wanted to cry with joy. I also never realized how tall he would be in person." Photo: Courtesy of Loyola Rankin "At AOCC with Isaac Moore, a dear friend made [over] Zoom. This was the first time we met in person. We shared so many struggles via Zoom during FIERCE meetings and outside. We have DMed during courses to share our personal thoughts as Indigenous people in higher ed. It was a special moment and I wanted to cry with joy. I also never realized how tall he would be in person." Photo: Courtesy of Loyola Rankin The Intellectual Contribution Award recognizes graduating Ed.M. students (one from each Ed.M. program) whose dedication to scholarship enhanced HGSE’s academic community and positively affected fellow students. Loyola Rankin will be honored with the Intellectual Contribution Award for Higher Education (HEP) Program during HGSE's Convocation exercises on May 25. Senior Lecturer Francesca Purcell, faculty director of HEP, comments on Rankin's selection:“Loyola is a highly regarded member of the higher education community at HGSE. She brings her critical sensibilities to her work encouraging both herself and others to ask difficult and important questions around student success for all students in higher education while simultaneously striving to find and implement solutions. Loyola’s impressive professional dedication to improving postsecondary experiences for Native American communities is inspiring and so many of us have learned so much from Loyola in her generous sharing of her own personal life experiences as an indigenous higher education professional. HGSE is a better place because of Loyola.” We spoke to Rankin about her time at HGSE, her future plans, and how the pandemic has changed the education landscape. What were your goals in coming to the Ed School? I came to HGSE because it was my dream school. I attended Graduate Horizons 2012 that was hosted at Harvard (I also attended the College Horizons program in 2007 also hosted at Harvard; the executive director is HGSE alum Carmen Lopez), and was inspired by the college's commitment to shaping the future of education. I was disheartened by the nine-month in-residence program as I had no intention of living in New England again after four years at my alma mater Brown University. I wanted to go home. Living through the pandemic has been horrific and, in the horror, I was able to attend my dream school. There is a level of guilt present as I considered my goals in attending HGSE: to see and shape the future of education. Having been raised on the Navajo Nation Reservation and within a culture of poverty, it is a special skill to see the future and shape it. It is now a responsibility to use these skills to the benefit of our students. "Having been raised on the Navajo Nation Reservation and within a culture of poverty, it is a special skill to see the future and shape it. It is now a responsibility to use these skills to the benefit of our students." Is there any professor or class that significantly shaped your experience at the Ed School? HGSE has amazing classes! It was amazing going down different paths offered by each course. The professors at HGSE have been supportive and helpful in expanding on concepts. The courses that resonated with me have been: Higher Education and the Law – Philip Catanzano was clear in his goal for his students: to ensure that we were not intimidated in our careers when we meet lawyers. His experience in the field was incredible to hear and presented topical issues. Leading Strategically – Senior Lecturer Elizabeth City’s May-term course was enlightening and provided tools to critique our own leadership systems. It was amazing to apply these skills to our current projects in authentic experience. I also enjoyed her take away that our leadership is a garden and even a “weed” can be cultivated to a strength. How the Future of Work is Shaping the Future of Work – Assistant Professor Peter Blair’s passion as an economist and a leader in his field has been amazing to learn from. Not only is his passion visible but his network of colleagues invited to the class was amazing to hear from. He pushed us all to think about how the future of work would change based on data and experience we could digest. What are your post-HGSE plans? Post-HGSE, I plan to take time to process my time at HGSE. It has always been culturally important to take time to reflect on the experiences we have been through in order to truly learn and appreciate them. During this time, I am sure I will grieve what happened to us with the pandemic. I think it would be part of the process before moving forward. There is a level of trauma that occurred that I would not wish to pass on to those I encounter in my next career adventure. It is important for me to provide great support for future colleagues and students and to be mentally and emotionally ready, I need time. How has the pandemic shifted your views of education? The pandemic has shifted my view on education to show how it is possible to experience formal education. There are many rewards to having online courses and should be a permanent option for students. I know the concept was possible but now having it as an option and integrated into schools. Despite your busy schedule, you always make time for … Sleep. Naps. It has always been important for me to have enough sleep, whatever that may mean for each day is different. Particularly if I have been wrestling with a difficult concept or working through a problem posed in class or through readings. It has been helpful to sleep. INTELLECTUAL CONTRIBUTION AWARD: NEXT PROFILE Related News: People-First Practice: Turner Cooper, L&T'22 The Intellectual Contribution Award recipient for Learning and Teaching reflects on his time at HGSE and looks toward the future. A Practitioner Perspective: Katie Wiseman, L&L'22 The Intellectual Contribution Award recipient for Language and Literacy reflects on her time at HGSE and looks toward the future. More In: Intellectual Contribution Award commencement Commencement 2022 In this section News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media To See and Shape the Future of Education: Loyola Rankin, HEP'22 Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice