Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Arts and Culture Breadcrumb Campus Life Arts and Culture Arts and Culture on Campus and Beyond Engage your senses, ignite your intellect, and inspire your creativity with the wide array of arts and cultural happenings at the University of California, Riverside. A quick three-mile jaunt from campus, UCR ARTS in downtown Riverside is a great place to engage with provocative and timely art exhibitions, performances, screenings, and other programs. It’s also home to the California Museum of Photography — the largest photographic center in the western United States that houses the region’s most comprehensive public camera collection. Literary enthusiasts will delight in UCR’s annual Writers Week, the longest-running, free literary event in California. And students in our Department of Creative Writing can pursue the only Bachelor of Arts in Creative Writing in the UC system or an MFA in Creative Writing and Writing for the Performing Arts — all while learning from established writers and poets, including Tom Lutz, founder of the Los Angeles Review of Books. Our interdisciplinary Center for Ideas and Society provides fellowships, research workshops, and public events to strengthen the intellectual and creative life of the university and, by extension, the Riverside community and beyond. The Riverside community also benefits from our Gluck Fellows Program of the Arts, which provides free arts outreach experiences to schools, eldercare homes, museums, and libraries in the most underserved areas of our city. Music and movement abound at our year-round concerts, events, and outdoor music festivals, including showcases by our Department of Dance. And, of course, nothing exhibits Highlander pride quite like our annual Block Party, Spring Splash, or Homecoming Scot Fest — or being privy to a performance by the UCR Pipeband. Related Topics Campus Life Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety About Riverside UCR ARTS UCR / California Museum of Photography More Information Barbara and Art Culver Center of the Arts More Information Sweeney Art Gallery More Information Dance Program The UCR Department of Dance hosts many performances throughout the year. SEE SCHEDULE Theatre, Film, and Digital Production UCR Department of Theater, Film, & Digital Production brings a new season of fresh performances every year. LEARN MORE Music Programs UCR Department of Music consists of 18 ensembles including a Bagpipe ensemble and a Taiko ensemble. All ensembles perform regularly around campus. SEE EVENTS Previous Next Campus Experiences Entomology Museum More Information R'Side Student Events More Information UCR Botanic Gardens More Information Creat'R Lab More Information Eaton Collection More Information Music Library More Information Special Collections More Information Tuskegee Airmen Exhibit More Information Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel