Skip to main content Menu Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Research About Home About Who We Are Recognition and Awards Council for Diversity & Inclusion Corporate CDO Advisory Board Programs and Initiatives Men of Color National Summit Women's Roundtable Pre-Summit Supporting Diversity Contact Us Shared Leadership Access and Equity Charles H. Houston Center Diversity Education and Training Gantt Multicultural Center Hispanic Outreach Strategic Planning for Inclusive Excellence Title IX Commissions Accessibility Commission Commission on the Black Experience Commission on Latino Affairs LGBTQ Commission Commission on Women Veterans Commission Main Content Diversity Matters: Inclusion, Equity and Culture at Clemson University To support Clemson University's diversity initiatives, please Make a Gift online or contact the Office of Development and specify one or more of the following areas: Make an Online Gift Alpha Phi Alpha Alumni Scholarship Established by the Pi Alpha National Alumni Coalition (PANAC) in memory of Brother Clarence L.B. Addison, ’74, the “Founding Father” of Pi Alpha and Clemson Professor Emeritus. Jacquelwyn Willis Anthony PEER Endowment Established in honor of Jacquelwyn Willis Anthony by her daughter, Janine Anthony Bowen. Ms. Bowen credits her mother for believing in and helping her get to where she is today. This endowment supports Programs for Educational Enrichment and Retention (PEER). The PEER Office has been welcoming underrepresented students for more than 20 Years. Edith & James Bostic Jr. Presidential Scholarship Fund – Harvey Gantt Scholarship Component Established by Edith and James Bostic Jr. to provide scholarships for bright African American students with special preference given to South Carolina residents and entering freshman. Scholarship will be based on academic performance and potential, will be renewable for each of the students' four years at Clemson, and will be awarded as part of the Gantt Scholars. Janine Anthony Bowen ’89 Industrial Engineering Endowment Established by Janine Anthony Bowen to enhance campus diversity by supporting women and minorities. This endowment supports, but is not limited to, faculty support, awards, and program support for the Department of Industrial Engineering. Clemson Black Alumni Council Operating Account To provide support for but not limited to the following meeting expenses, programs, alumni events, and fundraising Clemson Black Alumni Council Legacy Endowment Established to provide support for the Clemson Black Alumni Council (CBAC) Clemson LGBTQ+ Alumni Scholarship Endowment Provides merit-based scholarships to undergraduate students who have made contributions to the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender community through leadership, service, volunteering or research. Student selection will be made following the University Scholarships and Awards Committee policies and procedures for department-select scholarships with the Financial Aid Office assuming administrative responsibilities. Student selections, recommended by the Office of Inclusion and Equity, must be verified by the Student Financial Aid Office prior to official announcement to the student. Clemson Women's Alumni Council Scholarship Endowment The Women’s Alumni Council was founded on April 7, 1990 and became a constituency board for the Alumni of Clemson University. The Council was created to provide quality programs and services for Clemson alumna, students and friends. Their purpose is to enable women alumni and friends to remain involved and connected to Clemson. Their scholarship provides university-wide scholarships to Clemson University students Chi Zeta Diversity Scholarship Endowment Established by the Chi Zeta Chapter of the Omega Psi Pi Fraternity to enhance diversity on campus and provide scholarships to underrepresented student populations. Dr. William C. “ Bill” Clinkscales, Sr., ’74 Endowed Diversity Scholarship Established in loving memory by his wife, Mrs. Veronica D. Alston Clinkscales and the brothers of the Chi Zeta Chapter of Omega Psi Phi, Inc. Dr. Clinkscales started with the Extension Service on July 1, 1965, but was only able to work through September of 1965 when he entered the United State Air Force. He served at McCord Air Base in Washington State until February 22, 1969. On March 16, 1969, Dr. Clinkscales returned to the Extension Service and worked there until his retirement on June 27, 1996. During his tenure at Clemson in April of 1974, Dr. Clinkscales assisted in the Establishment of the Chi Zeta Chapter of Omega Psi Phi, Inc. at Clemson University and served as faculty advisor. This endowment was established to enhance diversity on campus and will provide scholarships university-wide to underrepresented students populations. Call Me MISTER® Program To provide operational funds for the CALL ME MISTER Program which may include, but are not limited to the following, providing student development, servant leadership activities, materials, summer programs, marketing material and facilitators. Friends of the Clemson Gospel Choir To provide support for but not limited to the following: events and travel expenses. Diversity Excellence Fund To provide operational funds for the Office of Inclusion and Equity Emerging Scholars Program To provide support for but not limited to the following program support, faculty and staff support, student transportation, meals, lodging, and equipment Fostering a Clemson Tiger Endowment This endowment was established by Donna Bowling ('86). Donna's vision is to see support & encouragement given to students who have been identified as residents of foster care, homelessness, or wards of the state or in relative care. By supporting this endowment you will be helping with student support, alternative Parent's Weekend programming, and more for these students. Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center The Center is committed to creating diverse learning environments for our students. The Center also advocates for the needs of our diverse student body. Support would include small and large-scale programming, immersion experiences, student travel, and support for multicultural student organizations. Harvey B. Gantt Scholarship Endowment On January 28, 1963, Harvey Gantt became the first Black student to enter Clemson University. Gantt earned a Bachelor of Architecture and graduated from Clemson University with honors in 1965. To celebrate the 25th Anniversary of Harvey Gantt’s enrollment at Clemson, the Clemson Black Alumni Council (CBAC), introduced the Harvey B. Gantt Scholarship Endowment. The purpose of this fund is to provide academic scholarship to recruit and retain black students with special preference given to South Carolina residents and entering freshmen. Griffith Family Diversity Excellence Endowment Established by Ben E. Griffith, ’72 and Deloris G. Griffith ’73 to provide unrestricted support of the Office of Inclusion and Equity at Clemson University Bryant Aubrey Harrell Diversity & Inclusion Excellence Fund Established by Mr. Harrell who’s vision is to see an improved recruitment and retention rate for members of underrepresented groups on campus. To help make this vision a reality, the endowment will provide much-needed unrestricted support for the Office of Inclusion and Equity. The Hatcher Family Scholarship Endowment Established by Jesse L. Hatcher, ’90, in honor of his parents Jess and Mary Hatcher, an to reinvest in the University that opened countless doors for him and his family. This endowment was established to enhance diversity on campus and will provide scholarships university-wide to underrepresented students populations. Farris Carlos Hill Diversity & Inclusion Excellence Endowment Established by Brig. General Hill who’s vision is to see an improved recruitment and retention rate for members of underrepresented groups on campus. To help make this vision a reality, the endowment will provide much-needed unrestricted support for the Office of Inclusion and Equity. Hispanic Outreach Operating Account To provide support for Hispanic Outreach. This account will support programming, speakers, conferences, and enhance Hispanic Engagement Raymond Jones Family Scholarship Endowment Established by Mr. Raymond E. Jones ’86 to provide scholarships to underrepresented students in the College of Engineering Computing and Applied Sciences Susan S. Lasser PEER Endowment Established in honor of Susan S. Lasser. Sue, founded Programs for Educational Enrichment and Retention (PEER) in 1987, and served as its director for 28 years. In 1996, Sue was among the first winners of the national Presidential Awards for Excellence in Science, Mathematics and Engineering Mentoring; in 2005, she was honored by Clemson with the Martin Luther King Service Awards. Sue is a National Certified Counselor. She also currently serves as co-Faculty-in-Residence with her husband, Dr. William “Bill” Lasser, in the Clemson Honors Residential College. Having founded the PEER, Susan “Sue” Lasser has served as a leader in diversity and as an advocate and counselor for many underrepresented student in the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences. It is because of her leadership we would like to honor Sue by officially establishing the Susan S. Lasser PEER Endowment. This endowment will provide unrestricted funds for the PEER office. Lynn Family Diversity Excellence Endowment Established by Dr. Louis B. Lynn ’70 to provide unrestricted and continuing support for the Clemson University Office of Inclusion and Equity in pursuit of academic excellence and diversity Jane A. McLamarrah Fund for Women in Science and Engineering At the discretion of the Director of WISE to recruit and retain WISE Students and support the mission of the WISE office. Supporting this fund will include but are not limited to WISE Programs, promoting PE certification, professional conferences for students, awards, and WISE study hall Dr. Joseph Alston Miller Jr. ’94 Memorial Scholarship Endowment Established by the brother of the Kappa Lambda Chapter of the Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity to provide nonrenewable scholarship for students majoring in disciplines related to the medical field National Society of Black Engineers To provide support for but not limited to the following: supplies, printing, travel, registrations, banquets, expenses relating to recruitment of new members, speaker fees as they relate to the club’s mission PEER (Programs for Educational Enrichment and Retention) Activities Fund To provide operating support for the expenses of the PEER Program. Lambda Theta Miranda Prater Diversity Scholarship Endowment Established in honor of Chapter Advisor Miranda Prater by the Lambda Theta Chapter of Alpha Kappa Alpha, Inc. Eleanore “Ellie” Sienkowski Diversity Scholarship Endowment Established in loving memory by her son Philip, and her daughter-in-law, Adrienne Lynn Sienkowski. Mrs. Sienkowski was a world traveler, intellectually curious, and had a zest for life and family. She was a strong believer in diversity of education and experiences. This endowment was established to enhance diversity on campus and will provide scholarships university-wide to underrepresented students populations. Society of Hispanic Engineers (SHPE) This fund will support SHPE. SHPE changes lives by empowering the Hispanic community to realize its fullest potential and to impact the world through STEM awareness, access, support and development. Statement of Values: They are brought together by heritage, social responsibility and desire to improve the equality of all people through the use of science and technology. They value excellence in education, professional pursuits and leadership. Their goal is to obtain excellence through integrity, empowerment, achievement, diversity and continuous improvement. This account will fund supplies, travel, and other related expenses of SHPE. Society of Women Engineers (SWE) This fund will support the Society of Women Engineers (SWE) which stimulates women to achieve full potential in careers as engineers and leaders, expands the image of the engineering profession as a positive force in improving the quality of life, and demonstrates the value of diversity. This account will help fund supplies, travel, and other related expenses of SWE. Sonya Spartley Balogun Diversity Scholarship for WISE Supporting this scholarship provides scholarships to student participants in WISE (Women In Science and Engineering). Emily Peek Wallace ’72 Scholarship Endowment for STEM Provides scholarship support for students who require financial assistance to attend the University as determined by the Director of Financial Aid or his/her designee. The scholarship is to be awarded to individuals in under-represented populations who have declared a major in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) fields of study, as determined by the University, and the student will be encouraged to participate in the Women In Science and Engineering (WISE) program. Leon E. Wiles Diversity Endowment Established in honor of the first chief diversity officer, Leon Wiles who selflessly served Clemson University from 2008 to 2015. Among his many achievements, he was responsible for establishing the Minority Student Success Initiative that promoted the academic and career success of minority undergraduate and graduate students. In addition, he was instrumental in creating a postdoctoral fellowship program to recruit underrepresented scholars. Mr. Wiles’ achievements while at Clemson lead to an overall increase in scholarship funding for underrepresented minority students. Mr. Wiles created the Campus Climate Enhancement Task Force and the James E. Bostic Inclusive Excellence Award to recognize faculty, staff and students who positively impact campus climate. He also created the ADA Task Force and established Clemson University’s first comprehensive campus accessibility plan, which placed priority on handicap accessibility. This endowment will provide unrestricted and continuing support for the Clemson University Office of Inclusion and Equity in pursuit of academic excellence and diversity Teresa Lynn Wilson '97 Scholarship Endowment Provides university-wide scholarships to underrepresented student populations Mable Wynn Diversity Scholarship Endowment Established in honor of Mrs. Wynn, who served unselfishly and attentively as an advisor for the Omicron Phi Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. for over 30 years by the Omicron Phi Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta, Inc. David E. Yount ('69) & Susan W. Yount First Generation Endowed Scholarship By supporting this scholarship you will help provide university-wide scholarships to first-generation college students. Call My Name: African Americans in Clemson University History The Call My Name project researches and shares the stories of African Americans who are an integral part of Clemson University history. These stories include those of enslaved persons who labored on John C. Calhoun’s Fort Hill Plantation on which Clemson was built, sharecroppers who worked on Fort Hill for Thomas Green Clemson during Reconstruction, convict laborers who helped build Clemson, wage workers employed by the college in jobs including cooks, janitors, athletic trainers, and farm hands along with cooperative extension workers, musicians like Duke Ellington and Ray Charles who performed for social events, and the students, faculty, and staff who came to Clemson after integration in 1963. More information about the project can be found at callmyname.org. Diversity Matters: Inclusion, Equity and Culture at Clemson University (PDF) Please note: this list is constantly growing and changing. If we have left out an account unintentionally, please email liza@clemson.edu. For information about receiving scholarships, please contact our Financial Aid Office to ask about applying. Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram