Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Social Change and Intercultural Engagement Community Engagement Community Engagement Programs Resources Alternative Breaks Intercultural Engagement Intercultural Engagement Connect Mentorship Program Signature Programs Cultural Heritage Months Student Organizations Student Organizations Cultural Organizations Community Engagement Organizations MilVets at SMU Veteran Support About Us About Us Meet Our Team ☰ Student Affairs Social Change and Intercultural Engagement Community Engagement The Office of Social Change and Intercultural Engagement (SCIE) is passionate about connecting students, student organizations, faculty, and staff at SMU to meaningful community service opportunities in the Dallas area. We believe that service cultivates a consciousness of self, commitment to a common purpose and citizenship through guided experiences and reflection. Community Engagement Programs Get Involved Community Engagement Resources Learn More Frequently Asked Questions How can I find a service opportunity? SCIE can help connect you to a service opportunity that works for you! During our service consultation you’ll discuss the social issues which are most important to you and we will connect you to Dallas Community Organizations which serve that need. Email scie@smu.edu with your availability to set up an appointment. I'm a DFW community organization. How can I share an opportunity? Due to the volume of requests for volunteers that we receive, we serve primarily as an information bank and resource for our students. The more we know about your organization and the service opportunities, the better we are able to make a “match” or direct the opportunity to an appropriate student or student group. We provide information about organizations and opportunities to students, and it’s up to them to contact you directly to arrange the volunteer work. We’re unable to guarantee any volunteers, but we do our best to promote the opportunities to our students. Email scie@smu.edu to get connected. I just want to learn more about community service. Where do I start? Click here for a downloadable document of our definitions and terms about community engagement and social change. Student Organizations SMU has many student organizations dedicated to serving the community through direct service and philanthropy. SCIE advises several service organizations at SMU, and there are also many other organizations that can be found on Connect.SMU. Find an organization advised by SCIE Connect.SMU Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share