Skip to main content Colorado State University Colorado State University - responsive signature graphic Toggle navigation Menu Admissions Academics Research Athletics Alumni Give Engagement COVID-19 For information and updates regarding COVID-19's impact on Campus, Please click here Resources Toggle Resource Modal Window Resources Icon Charging Forward Request Information Visit Campus Apply The CSU community has been committed to improving lives and raising the human spirit for 150 years. We have faced many obstacles during that time, but perhaps none as extraordinary as COVID-19. Together, our efforts will continue and grow stronger as we support the world. Our infectious disease research is aiding in the fight against this pandemic and we have adapted to operate in new and innovative ways. Yet, as the world changes, our commitment to our students and their quality education remains the same. Virtual Experiences Watch "Together. We continue." There's something special about Fort Collins. It’s a mix of innovation, education, and recreation that makes our state possible. Learn More about fort collins Let your passion guide you. At Colorado State, we observe and advance our world with curiosity and passion. Learn More about the CSU experience It’s this simple: Rams succeed. Our grads earn the futures of their dreams. Learn more about the CSU Effect. Learn More about the CSU Effect One visit to campus and you’ll see. Our vibrant and active community is uncommonly welcoming and friendly. Learn More about our community Explore Colorado State. Our eight colleges offer a lifetime of learning and exploration. Choose your passion; we’re sure to share it with you. Agricultural Sciences Business Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering Health and Human Sciences Liberal Arts Natural Sciences Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences Warner College of Natural Resources About Colorado State Colorado State University is one of the nation’s top public research universities and an institution on the rise. In the last decade, CSU has produced record enrollment, built on all-time highs in student diversity and student success; record fundraising far outpacing ambitious goals; groundbreaking research driven by a highly productive faculty; a campus revitalized by a transformational building campaign; and, perhaps most important, an unrivaled learning environment where nine of 10 recent graduates say they would choose CSU again and rate their education as excellent. Our Culture Diversity and InclusionOur Location AccoladesSustainabilityMore About Colorado State Choose the CSU for You. All paths lead to Fort Collins. Whatever your next step, Colorado State has a program for you. Undergraduate New to college or transferring from another school? See the majors and programs we have to offer. Learn More about the majors and programs we have to offer CSU Online Browse our online master’s degrees and online bachelor’s degrees. Learn More about CSU Online degrees Graduate Take the next step to your future with Colorado State. Investigate our graduate programs. Learn More about graduate programs Research We’re pushing the world forward with inquiry and research that matters. Learn more about our research. Learn More about research at CSU CSU NEWS more news from SOURCE Something is always happening at #ColoradoState. Facebook Google Plus Twitter YouTube Instagram Flickr LinkedIn Pinterest Colleges: Agricultural Sciences Business Health and Human Sciences Liberal Arts Morgan Library Natural Sciences Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering Warner College of Natural Resources Schools & Programs: Graduate School International Programs School of Biomedical Engineering School of Advanced Materials Discovery School of Education School of Global Environmental Sustainability School of Music, Theatre and Dance School of Public Health School of Social Work Contact: Admissions CSU Online more... CSU System: CSU-Pueblo CSU-Global Campus CSU Denver Center CSU Spur CSU System Contact CSU Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement Disclaimer CARES Act © 2022 Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523 USA Close Office 365 | Google Apps 301543-CSUhomepage_icons_calendar Calendar Canvas Find People Campus Maps Jobs SOURCE (news) Search: CSU A-Z: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Prospective Students Academics Admissions Apply Campus Maps Connect with CSU Consumer Information and Disclosures Costs & Financial Aid CSU Online Disability Center Get Information Graduate School Housing & Dining Inclusive Excellence Student Financial Services Sustainability The CSU Experience Visiting Campus Current Students RAMweb Canvas Email (Office 365) Email (Google Workspace) Advising Associated Students of Colorado State University (ASCSU) Bookstore Building Alterations, Repairs & Maintenance CARES Act Campus Recreation Career Center Consumer Information and Disclosures CSU Online Disability Center eID Financial Aid General Catalog Health Network Housing & Dining Inclusive Excellence Inclusive Physical & Virtual Campus The Institute for Learning and Teaching Libraries Payment Options Parents & Family RamLink Registrar/Records Summer Session Sustainability You@CSU Faculty & Staff Email (Office 365) Microsoft Teams GlobalProtect VPN (Replaces Pulse) DUO: Two factor authentication instructions Canvas ARIESweb Administrative Applications and Resources (AAR) Administrative Professional Council Administration Building Alterations, Repairs & Maintenance Commitment to Campus Classified Personnel Council eID Employee Conflict Resolution General Catalog Human Resources Faculty Council Inclusive Excellence Inclusive Physical & Virtual Campus The Institute for Learning and Teaching Libraries My Learning Registrar Sustainability Talent Development University Grievance Officer Work-Life Balance More Faculty and Staff Resources Warner College of Natural Resources Answering challenges for the planet. The College’s five departments focus on environment and sustainability, focusing on endangered species, tourism, and much more. Warner College of Natural Resources: Visit the College Close Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences Investigating pressing questions of human, animal, and environmental health. The College’s four departments focus on translational medicine and global public health. Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences: Visit the College Close Natural Sciences Participants in the scientific process. The College’s eight departments develop students as they become successful scientists and scholars who contribute to the world. Natural Sciences: Visit the College Close Liberal Arts Our students and faculty share a commitment to the well-being of the human community, the natural environment in which we live, and to the inspiration of the human spirit. Liberal Arts: Visit the College Close Health and Human Sciences Advancing the state of living. The College’s eight departments and schools take a scientific approach to improving the health and well-being of people, their environments, and communities. Health and Human Sciences: Visit the College Close Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering Building the technologies that will change the future. The College’s five departments address issues of human health, energy development, and global environment and water. Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering: Visit the College Close Business Looking toward the future of business. The College’s five departments prepare students for enterprise in the modern global economy with an emphasis in sustainability and social responsibility. Business: Visit the College Close Agricultural Sciences The land-grant tradition at our University’s foundation. This College’s five departments focus on the contemporary demands of agricultural production for a growing global population. Agricultural Sciences: Visit the College Close