COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Wichita State University's engineering graduate program has ranked in the top 60 in the nation and highest in Kansas, by US News and World Report. March 29, 2022College of EngineeringApplied LearningEngineeringResearchAccess and AffordabilityGraduate Schoolstudents WSU’s engineering grad program top 60 in the nation and highest in Kansas By WSU Strategic Communications In the latest U.S. News and World Report rankings of universities offering a Ph.D. in engineering, the College of Engineering at Wichita State University once again was ranked in the top 100 engineering graduate programs in the country and the only institution in Kansas to make it in the top 100. The 2023 report by US News and World Report — released today — ranks Wichita State’s graduate program in engineering as No. 59 in the United States. That’s up from No. 77 last year and No. 94 the year before. US News’ annual rankings are based on a number of factors, including reputation among peer institutions and industry recruiters, student selectivity, faculty resources and research expenditures. WSU’s continued rise in prominence helps confirm what many in the industry already know: As Kansas’ only urban public research university, Wichita State helps meet industry’s needs through top-notch research while providing a well-rounded, affordable education to students. “The College of Engineering has exemplified the Wichita State spirit of innovation, which is evident by this prestigious ranking from U.S. News and World Report,” said Dr. Rick Muma, president of Wichita State. “In addition to the advancements made by our researchers, recognition from our peers and outside influencers that Wichita State is a preeminent urban-serving research institution is a value-added as we work to serve our community every day through our research and innovation.” Some points of difference within WSU’s engineering graduate program include: Externally funded research has increased 30% in each of the past two years. Small program sizes, allowing for frequent, direct contact between students and faculty in the classroom and research lab. Abundant applied learning opportunities with a variety of faculty-led funded research. Multiple inventor competitions in which teams of graduate and undergraduate students build products in the Project Innovation Hub and GoCreate, a Koch collaborative. WSU recently created a new data analytics program that cuts across engineering, business and mathematics. “Students have ample opportunities to put concepts learned in the classroom into practice in the real world, working with companies, many of whom have a presence on our Innovation Campus, and working with faculty on applied research that adds value,” says Anthony Muscat, dean of Wichita State’s College of Engineering. WSU College of Engineering From hands-on research using the latest technology to our location in Kansas' center of industry — with its virtually unlimited jobs, applied learning and professional connections — Shocker engineering students have everything they need to make their dream careers a reality. Learn more about Wichita State’s College of Engineering Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio computer science Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats WSU Foundation Woolseys give $1.3 million to fulfill vision for Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©