COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW The Center for Women's Studies - Home Section Menu The Center for Women's Studies - Home About The Center Scholarships Faculty Staff Plaza of Heroines SAFE (Student Action for Equality) Calendar of Events Photo Gallery Video Gallery Movies & Majors Night Women's History Month Diverse Women's Summit Newsletter Archive Diverse Women's Summit As a Department in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, the Center for Women's Studies offers both a major and minor. Students receive academic training and leadership skills with the goal of improving women's lives in the domestic and professional arenas. The analysis of gender, race and ethnicity, class, and sexuality is central to the major as well as cross-cultural and international perspectives. Learn more about the Center Equality in Action The Center for Women's studies serves a dual purpose: it offers a major and minor through an abundance of courses and acts as a campus and community resource and research center for shcholarship concerning women. Unique in the state of Kansas, the Center for Women's Studies at Wichita State is one of the longest-standing, degree-granting, autonomous Women's Studies centers in the country. A true interdiscipliary program, students can choose to study from cross-listed courses in fields such as Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, Social Work, History, Art, English, Religion, Ethnic and Minority Studies, Administration of Justice, Political Science and Communication. What will you do with a Women's Studies degree? Learn about our academics More Information Faculty & Staff The Center for Women's Studies faculty and staff are fully commited to providing students with a well-rounded, enriching, and gratifying learning experience. Click the link to learn more about our dedicated professors, lectureres, and other staff members. Student Action for Equality (SAFE) Student Action for Equality, or SAFE, is the Women's Studies Departments student organization. Click the link to learn more about our events, current and previous, and about how you can get involved. Calendar of Events The Center for Women's Studies and its student organization, SAFE, host and sponsor many events throughout the academic year. Click the link for more information on these events. Plaza of Heroines The Plaza of Heroines is a space Built for Women by Women, located in front of the Ablah Library between Clifton and Jabara Halls. Click the link for more information and to see how you can honor the women in your life with a place at the Plaza. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©