Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Groundwork laid for Campus Club to roll out the welcome mat this fall by Ruth Stevens May 1, 2008, 7 a.m. At left: The Campus Club logo is etched into the glass in a door between two rooms. Touches like these will remain in the renovated building. (Photo: Nalls Architecture) Below right: Members of the student advisory board, with Campus Club in the background, are, from left, junior Shekida Smith, sophomore Eric Plummer, sophomore Alexandra Krupp, graduate student Giridhar Parameswaran, freshman Joy Li, sophomore Jake Dale, junior Libby Hutton, sophomore Mike Weinberg (ex officio), freshman Cindy Kroll, graduate student Raja Chahal, graduate student Saurabh Gupta and director Dianne Spatafore. Members not present for the photo are sophomore Sitraka Andriamanantenasoa, junior Rina Ayob and graduate student Calvin Chan. (Photo: Brian Wilson) Bottom left: This architect's rendering shows the refurbished living room of the club. (Rendering: Nalls Architecture) A quiet transformation has been taking place on the corner of Washington Road and Prospect Avenue over the last year and a half. But the change is about to become much more visible as construction begins in earnest this spring and Campus Club re-opens its doors this fall as a community space for undergraduate and graduate students. Since announcing in September 2006 that it had acquired ownership of the former eating club building, the University has been working on plans for the structure's conversion into a new gathering place for students. For more than 18 months a group of undergraduate and graduate students and administrators representing Frist Campus Center, the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students, the Graduate School and the Office of the Vice President for Campus Life met to discuss and design the mission, governance structure, program goals and renovations needed to support Campus Club as a welcoming space for all students. "It was important to create a club that is open and welcoming to all Princeton students, without regard for any other affiliations they might have," said Janet Dickerson, vice president for campus life. "Also, we aspired to have this club be student-run, 'by students, for students,' as the eating clubs are." The building is intended to support flexible program areas, inviting casual conversation and comfortable "hang out" space as well as opportunities for more formal gatherings, such as dinners, dances, forums, meetings and lectures. Dianne Spatafore, the former director of student activities and the campus center at Merrimack College, joined Princeton's staff last fall as director of Campus Club. During this academic year, she has been meeting with a student advisory board. She also has been working with Steve Virostko, project manager in the Office of Design and Construction, and Nalls Architecture of Narberth, Pa., on renovation plans. "The space is going to look great as well as be comfortable, functional and offer options for programming a wide variety of events," said Spatafore, who reports to Associate Dean of Students Tom Dunne. "One of our main objectives is to ensure that the space is as flexible as possible to accommodate programming possibilities. With the diverse range of student pursuits, we want Campus Club to be an appropriate choice to host a reception or dinner as well as to be with friends and listen to live music." The advisory board was appointed in collaboration with the Undergraduate Student Government and the Graduate Student Government. It consists of nine undergraduates, four graduate students and one ex-officio undergraduate who is a liaison with the USG. They are charged with setting policies for the day-to-day operation of the club, engaging in outreach efforts, and appointing and overseeing a program board. The program board will create and sponsor events at the club, including grand opening activities, and will seek a balance between formally scheduled events and opportunities to use the club to meet friends, study, relax or read. There will be no charge for student organizations to use the rooms, other than direct event-related charges such as for food service. "Students are really excited about the club opening in the fall," said Libby Hutton, a junior who is chair of the advisory board. "I think students are thrilled about having a space that truly belongs to them. The space is really by and for students, which I think makes a big difference and makes the club unique from existing spaces. Student voices have been the central focus in the process of re-opening Campus, as the club's mission envisioned, and will continue to shape the club. I can't wait to start using the space." Renovations support programming The renovations on the building are intended to support the programming. Rooms will be able to be used individually or in combination. The furniture will be functional and much of it will be movable. The building and its surroundings will be wireless, and the front and back yards will be available for programming as well. Campus Club, which was founded in 1900, closed in 2005 after experiencing financial difficulties. Its membership voted to donate the building to the University on the condition that club members and other alumni continue to have access to the facility on certain occasions, such as after home football games and during Reunions and Alumni Day weekends. The University also agreed to preserve the appearance and character of the 12,600-square-foot building, particularly the exterior and the principal public spaces within the building. An advisory committee of three Campus Club representatives and two University representatives is being consulted on the uses of the facility and renovations. "I'm definitely excited about how the essence of Campus Club has been maintained," said Justin Reed, a 2005 alumnus and former president of the club who currently serves on its graduate board. "Much like Campus Club years ago, the club will be a resource for the entire Princeton University community, serving as a social hub for informal gatherings, dinners, meetings, receptions and countless other events. Enjoy!" The three-story Collegiate Gothic style building was designed by architect Raleigh Gildersleeve, who also was responsible for McCosh Hall and several other eating clubs. It was completed in 1910 following a year of construction. "A lot of what we're doing is just cleaning up the building, inside and out," Virostko said. Work began in March with asbestos abatement, which is routine for buildings of this age, he said. One major renovation will be the addition of an elevator that will service the basement, first and second floors. There also will be new accessible entries on the lower level into the tap room and on the first floor into the living room. In addition, accessible restrooms will be installed on the basement and second level. As part of sustainability efforts, a new geothermal system for heating and cooling will be added, along with 14 geothermal wells in the backyard on the south side of the building. The basement layout will stay much the same, with a tap room and lounge area. The tap room will be equipped with a convection oven, microwave and dishwasher, and the lower-level kitchen will be converted into an activities room. The first floor includes a catering kitchen, a dining room, a dining porch, a living room with a functioning fireplace, and a meeting room, which the club called the "Prospect Room." The second floor features a pool room and a library, as well as the club's alumni office. The third floor will be for mechanical support and will not be occupied. General interior repairs will include cleaning and replacing damaged woodwork, upgrading the sprinkler system, plumbing and lighting, and replacing the carpeting and much of the furniture. On the exterior, general repairs to the building envelope and windows will be made. Between now and the grand opening, Spatafore hopes to keep the University community informed about happenings with the building and the programming through a blog. Related Stories Campus Club opens as a gathering place for students Read more Renovated Campus Club to become new gathering place for students Read more Summer construction includes completion of three new facilities Read more Construction work focuses on Chemistry Building, Streicker Bridge Read more Streicker Bridge begins to rise amid summer construction Read more Events to celebrate new home of Fields Center, Community House Read more New home for Fields Center, Community House a beacon for multicultural education and social opportunities Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice