Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Workshops and Trainings Workshops and Trainings Columbia Health units offer a variety of workshops and trainings on a broad range of issues that focus on developing a certain skill or focusing on a particular topic. Sessions may already be scheduled out for the term or are available by request, indicated below by offering. Expand all Collapse all Offerings Alcohol and Networking This workshop focuses on the role that alcohol may play in a professional setting. With alcohol being omnipresent in many networking opportunities, this workshop aims to increase understanding of the effects of alcohol on the body, discuss protective behaviors to utilize while drinking, and to walk through ways to be an active bystander in situations where alcohol is present. Participants discuss factors that impact their choices around alcohol usage and how to navigate difficult situations. Facilitated by Alice! Health Promotion Scheduled by request: submit form Responsible Community @ Columbia (Alcohol) Taking a harm-reduction approach, this workshop aims to increase understanding of the effects of alcohol on the body, discuss protective behaviors to utilize while drinking, describe in what ways parties can be hosted in smart, safe, and responsible manner, and to walk through ways to be an active bystander in situations where alcohol is present. Facilitated by Alice! Health Promotion Scheduled by request: submit form Bystander Intervention Workshops addressing barriers and skills development to intervene in situations of violence. Learn more about bystander intervention Facilitated by SVR Scheduled by request: submit form Consent and Healthy Sexual Relationships Workshops discussing communication, consent and having positive sexual experiences and relationships Facilitated by SVR Scheduled by request: submit form Friend2Friend This workshop is a skills-based training program designed to help Columbia students effectively recognize and respond to others exhibiting indicators of distress. Students can be a helper and connect peers to resources on- and off-campus. The training is focused on understanding, re-framing, referring, and self-care. Facilitated by Alice! Health Promotion Scheduled by request: submit form Healthy versus Unhealthy Relationships People form all different types of relationships throughout their lives, and these relationships can take on various traits which can help or hinder their well-being. This workshop will help participants to identify characteristics of healthy and unhealthy relationships and discuss how unhealthy relationships may differ from abusive relationships. Facilitated by Alice! Health Promotion Scheduled by request: submit form Keeping Columbia Healthy Student Ambassador Training Columbia University has established the Community Health Compact as guidance for the expectations of community members returning to campus. Columbia Health, in collaboration with University Life and the CUIMC Student Health Service, is offering a training to equip students with the knowledge and skills to establish norms around following public health best practices. To request a training for a group of student leaders in your department or your organization, please complete the request form below. Please note the following when submitting your request: This session is 90-minute long and cannot be condensed. We require at least two weeks in advance of the requested session to allow adequate time for scheduling. If we are unable to accommodate your original requested date or time, we will work with you to make arrangements or suggest an alternative date or time for the requested training. The start time for the training request must be no later than 8pm EST. Generally, we ask that at least 10 participants be present at the start of the scheduled training. Requests for trainings for groups with fewer than 10 participants will be considered on a case-by-case basis prior to confirming the requested session. Event hosts will be asked to send participants a pre-test to complete prior to the training. Facilitated by Alice! Health Promotion Scheduled by request: submit form Preventing Sexual Violence, Intimate Partner Violence, Stalking and Other Forms of Violence A variety of workshops discussing definitions, dynamics, and behaviors related to sexual violence, IPV, stalking, dating violence and sexual harassment Facilitated by SVR Scheduled by request: submit form Reducing and Managing Stress Stress management, sleep, and nutrition are key elements of a student’s well-being. Participants will learn about why these behaviors are important, strategies for incorporating them into their lives, and resources available on campus that can provide support. Facilitated by Alice! Health Promotion Scheduled by request: submit form Sleep Getting a good night’s rest means more than just feeling refreshed in the morning — prioritizing zzzs is supportive of overall health and academic success by increasing focus and ability to retain more information. This workshop will describe what it means to practice good sleep hygiene and discuss ways to overcome common barriers to maximizing bedtime performance (sleep). Facilitated by Alice! Health Promotion Scheduled by request: submit form Survivor Advocacy, Services and Response Trainings on useful services and skills to support survivors Facilitated by SVR Scheduled by request: submit form Time Management Making informed choices about how to use available time can set the stage for academic success. Participants will discuss factors that impact time-choice, managing time effectively, building a balanced schedule, and learn about tools for overcoming procrastination. Facilitated by Alice! Health Promotion Scheduled by request: submit form Expand all Collapse all Workshops for Students Registered with Disability Services Finals 101 Jump start studying and refine test-taking skills. Topics include cumulative review, creating a study schedule, staying better focused on studying, prioritizing study time, using effective test-taking strategies, preventing test anxiety, and study strategies and tools. Finals Strategy Session Focus on short-term study strategies and create a study plan. Informal Q&A is also encouraged. Bring all study guides and materials needed to help make a study schedule. Tackling Papers and Long-Term Assignments Learn how to use time wisely on independent work, tips for getting started, and managing writer’s block. Participants will be introduced to some helpful tools for breaking down long-term assignments. Starting the Semester off Right! This workshop is designed to help you to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of your current time management techniques and study methods, set goals for the semester, and create an action plan for success. Customized Requests For organizations or groups with a more specific programming request, Alice! Health Promotion and Sexual Violence Response may be able to tailor workshops and trainings to meet your needs. Contact [email protected] or [email protected] to connect with a staff member and discuss your request. Not sure where about where’s best to direct your inquiry? Contact [email protected]. Workshop Access If you require disability accommodations to attend any of these events, please contact 212-854-2388 or [email protected] at least 2 business days in advance of the event. Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Health Unit Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Sexual Violence Response Disability Services Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close