Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Study Suggests How Post-COVID Syndrome, MIS-C, Gets Started in Children March 4, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email A new study by physicians at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons has identified unique features of MIS-C, a rare but potentially deadly complication of COVID in children, that suggest how the syndrome gets started. The findings may lead to faster diagnosis and better treatment of MIS-C (also known as multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children). The study, led by Mark Gorelik, MD, assistant professor of pediatrics, and Robert Winchester, MD, professor of medicine, pathology & cell biology, and pediatrics, was published in the March issue of the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology. About MIS-C MIS-C occurs in a small percentage of children who had COVID, usually several weeks after the infection’s initial symptoms disappear. The syndrome causes excessive inflammation in various parts of the body, notably the heart and blood vessels, and symptoms include severe stomach pain, dizziness, or skin rashes. Most of the approximately 6,800 children in the United States diagnosed with MIS-C (as of Jan. 31, 2022) fully recovered with steroid treatment that reduces inflammation, though 59 children have died, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. “One of the major unanswered questions about MIS-C is how, immunologically, the disease evolves from the initial infectious episode to the final, immune-mediated assault,” says Gorelik. “One way to study this could be to identify what is unique about the inflammatory/immunologic response in MIS-C.” Though other studies have looked at the immune and inflammatory response in MIS-C patients, most have looked at patients after initiation of treatment and made comparisons with healthy controls. “To us, comparisons to healthy controls would not differentiate the basic inflammatory response to infection from the unique features of MIS-C, and, of course, treatment would muddy the waters,” says Gorelik. Gorelik and Winchester’s team compared eight MIS-C patients with 14 patients with other febrile infections, by looking at the array of immune cells and responses in blood samples taken at the very first encounter with care in the emergency department, before treatments were initiated. Differences in immune cells A clue to what causes MIS-C may lie in the different immune cells found in MIS-C patients compared with other patients. “Only some cells were activated, which suggests that these cells are mistakenly directing the immune system to attack blood vessels in the body that had been damaged by the virus,” says Winchester. “These cells are drawn to the blood vessels because of the presence of the virus, but they appear to misidentify the culprit when they alert the rest of the immune system.” MIS-C also appears to drive patients’ natural killer cells—another type of immune cell—to exhaustion. “They get to the point where they are no longer able to carry out their function properly,” Winchester says. “This is seen in some other inflammatory diseases and may offer a clue to treatment similar to those diseases.” Faster diagnosis? Another finding may give physicians an easier way to diagnose MIS-C, which can be hard to distinguish from other syndromes. Notably, interleukin-27, an inflammatory molecule, was very highly upregulated in patients with MIS-C but not in other febrile children. “This cytokine is poorly understood but has been associated with increased mortality in patients with serious blood infection or sepsis,” Gorelik says. “If validated, these findings may allow researchers to run a simple, easily available test to readily confirm MIS-C in patients when they are in the emergency department.” Similarities with severe disease in adults Editor's Choice The Columbia paper on MIS-C was selected as an "Editor's Choice" in the March issue of the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology. The Columbia researchers postulate that MIS-C and adult COVID-19 infection may be more similar than is currently believed. “We noticed that several of our findings have also been reported in studies of adult patients with severe, late-stage COVID-19 infection,” Gorelik says. “Perhaps—and this is highly speculative—what is unique to children is the ability to handle the initial viral infection more efficiently, and then a month or so later they develop MIS-C. In contrast, adults are not able to suppress the initial viral infection. And then secondarily, in severe cases, a serious MIS-C-like immune response develops. In both adults and children, however, this second phase immune signature appears quite similar.” References More information Close collaboration with the pediatric and emergency medicine departments at Columbia University and co-authors Peter Dayan, MD, professor of pediatrics (in emergency medicine), and Tamar Lubell, MD, assistant professor of pediatrics (in emergency medicine), was instrumental to the study. The study, published in the March print issue of the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, is titled “Upregulation of Conventional Dendritic Cells type 1 (cDC1) implicates antigen cross presentation in Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C).” All contributors: Janice J. Huang (Columbia), Samantha B. Gaines (Columbia), Mateo L. Amezcua (Columbia), Tamar R. Lubell (Columbia), Peter S. Dayan (Columbia), Marissa Dale (Columbia), Alexis D. Boneparth (Columbia), Mark D. Hicar (University at Buffalo Medical Center), Robert Winchester (Columbia), and Mark Gorelik (Columbia). The research was supported by grants from the National Institutes of Health (K08 HL155033 25), the U.S. Public Health Service, and the American Heart Association. The researchers declare no conflicts of interest. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top