Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology School of Interactive Computing Menu Close About What is Interactive Computing? Facts & Rankings Buildings & Facilities Faculty Hiring Contact Us About Atlanta People Faculty Staff Academics MS Programs PhD Programs Advising Admissions & Financial Aid Distance Learning International Study GT Computing Student Life Your Life Here Admissions & Financial Aid Distance Learning International Study Research Research Areas Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Geometry, Graphics & Animation Human-Centered Computing & Cognitive Science Information Visualization & Visual Analytics Robotics & Computational Perception Social Computing & Computational Journalism Ubiquitous & Wearable Computing Virtual & Augmented Environments Labs & Groups Centers & Initiatives News & Events Upcoming Events Calendar News Podcasts Contact Support Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Research Research Areas Information Visualization & Visual Analytics Every day, decisions all over the world are made by entities from the largest organizations down to the most solitary individuals, and many if not most of those decisions are informed by data. One hopes that the growing breadth and widespread availability of data would enhance this decision-making, but too frequently this is not the case. The related fields of visual analytics and information visualization study how the use of interactive visualization can help people to understand data better. Based on the same principles as axioms like "Seeing is believing" and "A picture is worth a thousand words,” research in this area examines how visual representations of data—or external cognition aids—help people think. The data being examined may range from quantitative business information, stored in spreadsheets and databases, to textual documents such as news reports and articles. Often, the data is a heterogeneous collection of items drawn from different sources. But common to all these types of data is our need to draw information out that is hidden—what’s the right course of action? Which option should we choose? What is the best way to accomplish our goal? The answer is buried in there, somewhere, and we just need a way to look for it. Data visualization is not a new practice; everyone can recognize a line graph or a pie chart. But with modern computer systems that can collect and analyze literally trillions (or many more!) pieces of data, we need similarly sophisticated tools to deal with it all. Our researchers are developing new, interactive visualization techniques and systems that provide multiple and flexible perspectives on the data being examined. These systems help people and organizations to browse, explore and analyze data that is important to them. Fundamentally, these interactive visualizations are tools for sense-making; they assist us in understanding data by presenting it in a form that can be organized, queried and explored in order to gain new perspectives and insights about it. Coordinator: John Stasko Alex Endert Assistant Professor Personal Webpage James Foley Professor Personal Webpage Benjamin Shapiro Post-Doc Personal Webpage John Stasko Regents' Professor Personal Webpage Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Computing Resources Communications Finance Office of the Dean Technology Services Organization (TSO) College of Computing Schools School of Computational Science and Engineering School of Computer Science School of Interactive Computing Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Report a Problem Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology