Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Arts in Music, BA Develop your musical potential in the entertainment capital. Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Music 4 years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Chart Your Path With a Strong Foundation in Music The Bachelor of Arts in Music degree at UCF provides you with a convivial, supportive atmosphere of mutual respect, high standards academically and ethically, and faculty that are devoted to your learning and success. The program’s liberal arts emphasis also provides a flexible curriculum, allowing you to explore a diverse range of interests through elective courses. Some electives focus on music, while others are non-music courses that complement your area of study courses, such as history, business, communications, humanities and much more. While this degree track is not focused on performance, you’ll have plenty of opportunity to perform — whether it’s as part of a musical ensemble or our 350-person marching band, in recitals, operas, in student organizations or as part of our resident symphony orchestra. A capstone project at the end of your studies allows you to show what you’ve learned and perform or present it — applying the knowledge and skills you’ve learned during previous courses while designing something catered to your learning goals. Job demand for musicians in Florida is one of the highest in the country. From theme parks and cruise lines to performing arts companies and schools, there’s a number of industries for up-and-coming music professionals to explore. Related Programs: Music Education, BME Music Performance, B.M. Composition, B.M. Highlights UCF students have taught thousands of students tuition-free music education for 20+ years through A Gift For Music. In 2019, UCF Celebrates the Arts celebrated its fifth year — showcasing students’ creativity, innovation and collaboration. Projected job growth for musicians nationwide is 14%. Median earnings for musicians with a bachelor’s degree is $67,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Music Theory and Musicianship Review studies in music theory, both written and aural skills, including musical analysis, model composition, sight singing, ear training and improvisation over a continuation of four courses. Music of the United States Discover music of the United States from pre-Revolutionary times to present, covering vernacular, jazz, popular and art music traditions indigenous to the country. Music History and Literature Study the history of Western European art music from antiquity to 1800. Then, in the second course, learn about the history of Western European art music from 1800 to present day. View All Music Courses You’ll Take Music Skills You’ll Learn Practice self-discipline and responsibility through scheduling and time management, staying organized and meeting goals to ensure projects are complete. Experience how to adapt to various situations, whether you’re playing with a new group, learning a new type of music or meeting shifting priorities and obligations. Get a first-hand look at problem solving techniques — from working within a budget to lesson planning to communicating with different types of people. Career Opportunities Arts Administrator Arts Writer Entertainment Lawyer Instrument Repair Musicologist Music Director Music Publisher Recording Engineer News and Updates Check out more stories Music My Name Is Ren As Ren Joseph approaches graduation on Friday, he reflects on how his time at UCF helped him find even more of himself. Arts & Culture Flying Horse Big Band’s Latest Album Flying High on Charts The band’s sixth album has been on the three major jazz top 50 listings since it was released in July. Opinions What To Do With the American Musical? As with other art forms, good and bad musical theatre will always coexist. Finding the good is just knowing where to look. Arts & Culture Finding Her Beat After growing up only being allowed to listen to Christian hymns and classical music, senior Melody Cook has come a long way to earn her… Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Music (BA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements Each student must complete an audition that demonstrates satisfactory performance proficiency. The audition will serve as a placement examination for accepted candidates. Degree Requirements Prior to attending the first music class as a music major at UCF, all students must take a keyboard placement examination to determine the appropriate level of class piano. Go to https://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/study/#musicundergrad to see the class piano requirements. Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Departmental Residency Requirement; at least 25 hours must be taken from the UCF Music department. Each student must complete a faculty approved capstone project. Co-op or internship credit cannot be used in this major. Students should consult with a departmental advisor for course selections. Courses designated in General Education Program are usually spread over the full four years. Courses designated in Common Program Prerequisites are usually completed in the first 60 hours. A cumulative minimum GPA of 3.00 based upon all courses required in the major as well as all courses taken in music is required. Failure to maintain this standard may result in program probation or dismissal. Please refer to the SPA Student Handbook (https://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources/) for details on program standards. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: MUS1010 - Music Forum 4 semesters Complete at least 2 of the following: MUS2360C - Introduction to Music Technology (3) MUH3633 - Music in the United States (3) MUL2720 - Music of the World (3) GEP Course: MUL 2720 Core Requirements: Advanced Level 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete at least 1 of the following: MUH3211 - Music History and Literature I (3) MUH3212 - Music History and Literature II (3) GEP Course: MUH 3212 Restricted Electives 33 Total Credits No Rules Restricted Electives-Music 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 12 credits from the following types of courses: any MUX 3XXX or 4XXX (No more than 6 of these credits can be taken as MUN courses.) Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: one MUT 3XXX or MUT 4XXX course Restricted Electives-Non-Music 18 Total Credits Earn at least 18 credits from the following types of courses: elect, with the approval of the Academic Advisor, primarily from upper-level courses that form a coherent progression within a single or two related departments. The completion of a minor is strongly encouraged. Capstone Requirements 3 Total Credits Complete the following: MUS4900 - Music BA Capstone Project (3) Grand Total Credits: 45 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida