Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events 2022 Alumni Impact Award Laura Keohane Ph.D. ’16, assistant professor at Vanderbilt University Medical Center, is recognized for “her stunning trajectory and increasing impact in research and policy related to aging.” Learn more Rainbow Wave Tiara Mack, AB Public Health 2016, is Rhode Island's first first openly LGBTQ Black person elected to the State Senate Learn more Alumni in the COVID fight Ben Potee ’19, a UMass Medical School student, is administering vaccines at an emergency homeless shelter in Worcester. Read or listen at WBUR Support the School of Public Health “It’s about investing in people and perspectives that we need at the table in order to solve the public health challenges of our times—from gun violence to health access to mental wellness.” - Max Clermont, AB ’11, MPH ’12 Invest in the future of public health at Brown Career Support Prepare for your next step with public health-focused career tools and resources. Read more Alumni Get Involved Engage with prospective students as an alumni ambassador. Get Involved LinkedIn Join the conversation in our LinkedIn group for alumni and current students. LinkedIn Alumni Events Check out the calendar for Alumni Weekend, Campus Dance, etc. Alumni Events Continuum Magazine Read the latest research news and alumni updates in our biannual magazine. Continuum Magazine An organization is only as good as its people, and the School of Public Health has some of the most supportive and encouraging people (faculty, support staff, students) I have experienced in my career. John McHugh PhD in Health Services Research '16 Assistant Professor, Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health 150 Graduates in the Class of 2020 48% Undergraduates with Honors in Class of 2020 2016 Year of CEPH Accreditation School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top