Undergraduate Degrees | Moores School of Music - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Moores School of Music About Health & Safety News Mission Faculty and Staff Antiracism Initiatives Facilities Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Auditions Scholarships Visit Academic Programs Bachelor of Music Bachelor of Arts Undergraduate Minors Master of Music Doctor of Musical Arts Certificate in Performance Divisions Composition Conducting Music Education Music Theory Musicology Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Winds Ensembles AURA Bands Chamber Choirs Jazz Mariachi Opera Orchestra Percussion Events and Outreach Get Tickets Calendar of Events Moores Opera Center Camps, Festivals, and Recital Series Student Recital Information Moores Music in the City Community Arts Academy Giving Moores Society UH Home Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Moores School of Music Academic Programs Undergraduate Undergraduate Degrees Bachelor of Music The Bachelor of Music provides an intense focus on music, with students required to choose a performance concentration or they can choose to pursue elective studies in Teacher Certification (music education), Music Marketing, Nonprofit Leadership, Music Theory, Composition, or Religion. Learn more the B.M. program. Bachelor of Arts The Bachelor of Arts in Music is primarily a liberal arts degree with a strong concentration in music. It is aimed at students who want a broad, classic education or who are interested in combining musical expertise with another field via a double major or double degree program. Learn more about the B.A. program Minors Minors in Music Literature/History and Music Theory. Learn more about Minors Programs Bachelor of Music The Bachelor of Music provides an intense focus on music, with students required to choose a performance concentration in piano, organ, voice, wind, brass, strings, or percussion. In addition, they can choose to pursue elective studies in Teacher Certification (music education), Music Marketing, Nonprofit Leadership, Music Theory, Composition, or Religion. Bachelor of Arts The Bachelor of Arts in Music is primarily a liberal arts degree but with a strong concentration in the field of music. It is aimed at students who want a broad, classic education or who are interested in combining musical expertise with another field via a double major or double degree program. Minors Minors in Music Literature/History, Music Theory, and Interdisciplinary Arts allow non-music undergraduates to integrate musical study into their formal degree. Teaching Certification Students already possessing an undergraduate degree in music may pursue teaching certification. This program results in an EC-12 Music certification for the state of Texas. An individualized Certification Plan is developed for each student which may credit courses already taken towards certification requirements. Teaching Certification Students already possessing an undergraduate degree in music may pursue teaching certification. This program results in an EC-12 Music certification for the state of Texas. An individualized Certification Plan is developed for each student which credits courses already taken towards certification requirements. Many students completing teaching certification in Music Education also elect to pursue a Master of Music - Music Education degree. Those not pursuing a degree, will complete certification as a Post Baccalaureate (PB) student. Piano Proficiency Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Music degree plans include courses in Group Piano. Music students who wish to be exempt from taking the required Group Piano course sequence must pass the Piano Proficiency Exams normally administered at the end of Group Piano II or Group Piano IV. 3700 Cullen Blvd, Room E128 Houston, TX 77204-4039 713-743-3019 Contact Us Moores School of Music 713-743-3009 moores@uh.edu KGMCA Box Office 713-743-3388 Music Admissions 713-743-5934 musicadmissions@uh.edu Schools and Centers Moores School of Music 713-743-3009 School of Art 713-743-3001 School of Theatre & Dance 713-743-3003 M.A. in Arts Leadership 713-743-4817 Blaffer Art Museum 713-743-9521 Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts 713-743-7008 ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies