Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita Academics Residents Forms & Policies About Our Campuses Wichita Giving Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Graduate Medical Education-Wichita Our Campuses Wichita Giving Info for Graduate Medical Education-Wichita Residents Residents Residency & Fellowship Programs Salaries and Benefits Resident Spouses Group Forms & Policies About About GME Staff Program Staff Board of Directors Resident Council Residency & Fellowship Programs Salaries and Benefits GME Staff Welcome to Graduate Medical Education at the University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita, where we are committed to meeting the educational and administrative needs of the next generation of health care professionals. Our 14 fully accredited residency and fellowship training programs offer an excellent blend of academic and clinical training through our hospital partners Ascension Via Christi, Salina Regional Health Center and Wesley Medical Center, as well as the efforts of our dedicated faculty throughout the city and state. KU Wichita graduates are superbly trained and ready to enter clinical practice and obtain fellowship training at prestigious institutions throughout the nation. Resources Employer Labor Notices Residency Brochure Resident Directory KU School of Medicine-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Wichita Giving 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.