Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Counseling Faculty and Research Degree Programs Clinical Mental Health (Post-Master's Certificate) College and Career Counseling (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate) Disability Studies (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate) Disability Support Services (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate) School Counseling (Post-Master's Certificate) Addiction Counseling (MS) Clinical Mental Health Counseling (MS) Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling (MS) Marriage, Couple, and Family Counseling (MS) School Counseling (MS) Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling (MS) Counselor Education and Supervision (PhD) Mission Statement Current Students Practicum & InternshipLinks to Counseling ResourcesGeneral Campus ContactsStudent Wellbeing and Evaluation Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Addiction Counseling Addiction Counseling Concentration Coordinator Frances Ellmo, Ph.D. Ball Hall 304d Memphis, TN 38152 (901) 678-2841 fellmo@memphis.edu Program Overview The program in Addiction Counseling is new and has not yet admitted it first class. Although our other master's degrees in counseling have been reviewed and are accredited, the Addiction Counseling programs has yet to undergo the accreditation process. When sufficient outcome data (student admissions, performance, and graduation information) is available, we will seek to have the program reviewed for accreditation by CACREP. The Addiction Counseling program is designed to prepare diverse, knowledgeable, and skilled counseling professionals to work in a variety of settings to increase access and improve the quality of addiction treatment, support research and prevention, and promote the care of patients with addiction issues. The training model provides students with training in comprehensive, evidence-based interventions for substance use and addictive disorders that are person-centered, population-focused, and delivered in a continuum of care, from prevention to recovery. The degree plan has been developed to allow graduates of the program to meet the educational requirements for the Master Addiction Counselor (MAC) credential offered by the NAADAC, the Association for Addiction Professionals, the State of Tennessee's Licensed Alcohol and Drug Abuse Counselor (LADAC) governed by the Board of Alcohol and Drug Abuse Counselors. The U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) classifies Addictions Counselors as "Substance Abuse, Behavior Disorder, and Mental Health Counselors" (BLS, 2019). The ten-year expected growth of this profession is 22.5%; a figure more than two times greater than that of 8% expected growth of other professions (BLS, 2019). Nationally, the field is expected to grow by 68,500 additional professionals during the period from 2018 to 2028 (the most recent forecast available from the DOL). Currently, there are 708 addictions treatment centers in Tennessee, and an additional 3,940 addictions treatment centers in border states. Faculty Research Faculty in the Counseling Division engage in a variety of cutting edge and societally relevant research and our doctoral students will be expected to join in their work. Faculty in the division run multiple research labs covering numerous topics including models of counseling supervision, access to healthcare, adverse childhood experiences, and forensic counseling, among others. Students work with faculty and publish and present their findings as co-authors. The department has a robust history of sending our doctoral students to professional conferences around the world. Learn more about our research here. Admission Requirements All applicants to the MS concentration in Addictions Counseling must first apply to the Graduate School. You can find information on the application process here or go directly to the application system here. Entering students must possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university, have strong academic credentials, and show promise for graduate study and professional practice in Addiction Counseling. Although many factors are considered in the admissions process, generally all applicants must: Hold a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university. Have an undergraduate GPA of at least 3.0 in their major and/or last two years of study. Have taken the GRE by the time of application and have a minimum score of 140 on each the Verbal and Quantitative portions of the exam. Application Deadlines Fall Semester Application: March 1 Spring Semester Application: October 1 Application Procedures Applicants must apply through the university's online system here. All applicants must submit: Official transcripts of all colleges attended at both the undergraduate and graduate (if applicable) levels GRE scores (Verbal, Quantitative, Analytical Writing) Three letters of reference. These letters must be specifically written for current application into the Addictions Counseling program, signed by the reference, and printed on his/her official letterhead. Academic references are strongly desired (at least one is required), and should be in an appropriate position to make academic recommendations (e.g., current or former advisor or professor). Professionally applicable sources will be accepted; personal references will not be accepted. A personal statement (1-3 pages) that must include applicant's goals and rationale for applying to the Addiction Counseling concentration. In this statement, applicants may include a brief description of career experiences (teaching or research in the area, working with Addiction Counseling populations, etc.), and explain how these experiences are linked to their educational aspirations. All personal statements should be well-articulated and demonstrate professional writing quality (formal; accurate grammar and spellings). A professional resume that delineates previous work, educational experiences, membership and involvement in professional organizations, and scholarly activities. The resume should support the potential for strong performance in the program. Program Requirements The Addiction Counseling program requires 60-credit hours for completion. All courses are required. Courses completed within the last five years at an accredited college or university will be considered for transfer on a course-by-course basis. The degree plan for the Addictions Counseling MS includes the following: Required Core Courses: COUN 7411 Foundations of Counseling COUN 7531 Group Counseling Processes COUN 7541 Theories of Counseling and Personality COUN 7551 Assessment Techniques COUN 7561 Career Counseling COUN 7571 Clinical Techniques COUN 7730 Crisis Intervention COUN 7750 Multicultural Counseling COUN 7885 Legal and Ethical Issues EDPR 7117 Lifespan Human Development EDPR 7521 Introduction to Educational Research Concentration Requirements: COUN 6783 Alcohol / Drug Abuse Services COUN 7100 Theories of Addictions COUN 7101 Treatment Planning and Relapse Prevention in Addictions Counseling COUN 7102 Process and Behavioral Addictions COUN 7710 Addiction Counseling Clinical Field Placement Requirements: COUN 7633 Practicum in Addictions Counseling COUN 7644 Internship in Addictions Counseling (COUN 7644 must be taken for 9-credit hours) Graduation Requirements Students must complete all courses with a B average (3.00) or higher, for a total of 60 credit hours. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Apply to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Master's Degree Candidacy form to the Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave., Memphis, TN 38152) by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. Professional Organizations Addictions Nursing Certification Board (ANCB) American Academy of Addiction Psychiatry (AAAP) American Counseling Association (ACA) American Society of Addiction Medicine (ASAM) International Association of Addictions and Offender Counselors (IAAOC) International Society of Addiction Medicine (ISAM) NAADAC, the Association for Addiction Professionals Tennessee Counseling Association (TCA) Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/3/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.