Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'L': Lake Waco Wetlands Located at 1752 Eichelberger Crossing Road, the Center is a valuable resource to many area schools and universities, augments existing and future water-related educational programs at Baylor University, and provides professional and technical training and support services. Additionally, it implements outreach efforts to educate the community and local school children about reservoir systems and related water issues. The Biology Department, Baylor University, and City of Waco have educational programs and opportunities throughout the year. They include presentations by various specialist on Dragonflies, Lepidoptera, Birds, Plants, and numerous topics, and hands on experiences like the one by Alpha Phi Omega. The links on the left are a small sampling of these activities. LanDesk Asset Tracking LANDesk is an integrated tracking and management tool used to collect information from the computer devices connected to the Baylor network. This information is used for departmental IT planning and reporting tasks. Language Acquisition Center This center has language resources available for all the languages taught within the Department of Modern Foreign Languages. Lariat Newspaper The Baylor student newspaper. Latin American Studies The Latin American Studies program at Baylor University provides an opportunity for study and research in the history and culture of Spanish and Portuguese speaking nations of America and Europe. Law School The home page of the Baylor University Law School. Law School Admissions You belong at Baylor Law School if you want to be the kind of lawyer who not only receives training in all facets of the law . . . but also learns how to practice it more effectively than your peers. While all law schools teach theory, ethics and modern legal doctrine, a recent national survey showed that only 17% of law students felt that law school had adequately prepared them for the practice of law. That will not happen to you at Baylor. Law School Advocacy Ranked third in the nation according to U.S. News and World Report, our Advocacy Program produces lawyers of unparalleled quality and preparedness. It is our third-year Practice Court program for which we are best known and that you will find so valuable come graduation. Law School Alumni Baylor Law School has alumni practicing law in all 50 states, and in all areas of the law, government, business, and real estate. Law School Career Development n recent years, there has been a call for law schools to increase their emphasis on teaching practical lawyering skills. A well-rounded legal curriculum should teach students how to think about and analyze difficult legal problems, and to consider them in the light of public policy; but it also must ensure that its students know how to perform the day-to-day tasks required of a practicing lawyer. Law School Current Students Baylor Law School's resources for current law students. Law School Faculty & Staff Resources for the Law School's faculty and staff as well as for those seeking information regarding the Law School personnel. Law School Information Technology The information technology department at Baylor Law strives to provide you with the highest level of service and support possible while continuing to focus on innovation and modernization. Law School Law Review Law School Library Welcome to the Sheridan & John Eddie Williams Legal Research and Technology Center. Our primary clientele consists of the faculty and students of Baylor Law School. We also serve the Baylor University academic community, members of the practicing bar, and the general public. Law School News Where to find the latest news about Baylor Law School and to find archived articles. Law School Pro Bono & Public Service Whether your career path leads you to the public or private sector, in business or non-profit, in whatever industry, we believe that the call to law is in essence a calling to the public. In an increasingly diverse community with increasingly divergent needs, Baylor Law School strives to develop responsible citizens, educated leaders, dedicated scholars, and skilled professionals who practice with the heart to establish and protect a civil society. Law School Prospective Students The Best Belong at Baylor Law. Law School Visitors Resources for anyone visiting Baylor Law School or moving to the area to attend the Law School. Learning Together Whether you are new to online and hybrid instruction or have years of experience, this website will provide you with simple steps, recommendations, and templates for building an engaging learning environment that meets your instructional objectives. Legal Disclosures Information on a range of legal and compliance notices, policies and practices. Libraries The central libraries, special libraries and resource centers of Baylor house more than 1.6 million bound volumes, more than 2.8 million microforms and government document pieces and thousands of audio-visual items, maps, charts and photographs. Libraries - Liaison Services The Liaison Services department helps clients by answering factual questions, assisting with search strategies, providing individual and group instruction on library resources, preparing research guides, and more. Library Advancement Giving to the Libraries Library Circulation Services Information about checking out and utilizing resources from the library. Library Intranet These pages contain information about the Baylor University Libraries for current library personnel. Information is organized by library unit. Each unit page includes contact information, information about the unit, and tools for creating a library that connects people with ideas. Linguistics Linguistics is the scientific study of language. Instead of trying to learn individual languages, linguists want to know how language works. Where did language come from? How are languages developing? How does language affect the way we think, the way we interact, and our cultural identity? What are the mental processes involved in understanding, producing, and acquiring language? What does language development in childhood look like, and how do we learn additional languages later in life? What are the linguistic and cognitive consequences of bilingualism? LinkedIn Learning with Lynda.com Content All employees of Baylor University have unlimited access to LinkedIn Learning (including Lynda.com content), a library of thousands of courses featuring instructional videos on the latest software and many other topics. LinkedIn Learning is designed for all skill levels and is available for viewing on your computer or mobile device. Louise Herrington School of Nursing Located in the heart of Dallas, the Baylor University Louise Herrington School of Nursing prepares baccalaureate and graduate level nurses, within a Christian community for professional practice, healthcare leadership and worldwide serve. There are more than 830 students enrolled at the LHSON including pre-nursing students who spend their first two years at Baylor University’s Waco campus or other universities around the country. Faculty and staff work together to create an environment where students may develop the professional leadership skills necessary to excel in patient care and the critical thinking skills to meet the needs and demands of the profession. Faculty/Staff homepages starting with 'L': Leidner,Dorothy Baylor Faculty and Staff: Update your homepage address or learn more about your homepage and privacy settings. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678