Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Biology Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Majors Minors Molecular and Cellular Biology, B.S./M.S. Distinction Program Funding and Scholarship Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Learn More Graduate School Resources Apply Master’s Degree Tuition Fellowship Masters Programs Ph.D. Program Graduate Programs Poster Financial Support People People Faculty Handbook Research Research Research opportunities Facilities Center for Drug Discovery, Design and Delivery About About Contact Us Seminar Series News Alumni Connection Give ☰ SMU Department of Biological Sciences Academics Departments Biology Faculty Directory Majors/Minors Graduate Programs Research Welcome The Department of Biological Sciences and its faculty provide insight into how life and physical sciences intersect and prepares students to pursue advanced degrees or a career in a variety of scientific fields. Students receive top notch, interdisciplinary academics and the opportunity to participate in hands-on research in a variety of subjects including cancer, immunity and aging, and neuroscience, among many others. Lecture Series Read More Labs and Facilities Read More Faculty News Read More Contact the Department of Biological Sciences Dedman Life Sciences Building P.O. Box 750376 | Dallas, Texas | 75275 214-768-2730 Department Overview Want to be a biology major? News More news Biology Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs People Research Areas About Give Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube