Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Psychology About People Diversity Undergraduate Admissions Major in Psychology Minor in Psychology Distance Education Psychology Advising Appointments Scholarships Announcements Graduate Department of Psychology Graduate Scholarships Admissions Handbooks and Bulletins Clinical Developmental, Cognitive, & Behavioral Neuroscience Industrial Organizational Social Psychological Science Research Clinics Directions Giving Ways to Give What to Support Types of Donations Contact Us UH Home College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Department of Psychology Clinics Clinics Directions The University of Houston 3695 Cullen Boulevard Room 126 Houston, TX 77204-5022 (713) 743-8500 Related Links Computer Support Keep in touch! Clinics Clinical Services The Psychology Research and Services Center has merged its psychotherapy and counseling services with the Lone Star Circle of Care at UH, which offers a full range of behavioral health services for children, adults, and families. For appointments, please call 1-877-800-5722. Located on the UH campus in the Health 2 Building, more information can be found on the Lone Star website: https://lonestarcares.org/location/lone-star-circle-of-care-at-the-university-of-houston/ Some faculty laboratories continue to offer assessment services and intervention services for specific problems. All services are on a sliding scale basis. Assessment Services We provide a wide range of psychological testing and evaluation services for children and adolescents on a sliding fee scale (e.g., intellectual/academic assessment, personality assessment, assessment of behavioral functioning and psychopathology). Jack M. Fletcher, Ph.D., ABPP (ABCN) - The School Problems Clinic provides psychoeducational and neuropsychological assessments of children with learning (dyslexia, other learning difficulties) and behavior (ADHD) problems, including brain injury (ages 5-16 years; we do not evaluate children for autism and related disorders). For appointments, please call 832-842-2006. ADAPT-UH (Dr. Carla Sharp, Ph.D) The Adolescent Diagnosis Assessment Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT) Center of UH provides comprehensive assessments of adolescent typical and atypical function with a focus on adolescent-specific challenges, including emotion regulation problems, identity development, interpersonal difficulties, self-harm and suicidal behaviors. Please call 713-743-8612 or visit https://www.uh.edu/class/psychology/clinical-psych/research/dpl/adapt/. Anxiety and Health Research Lab/Substance Abuse Clinic This clinic is designed for the study, assessment, and prevention/treatment of anxiety-substance use disorders as well as general promotion of positive health behavior change (e.g., increasing physical fitness levels). It is also a teaching laboratory that trains undergraduate, graduate, postdoctoral, and visiting scholars in the measurement, analysis, and integration of processes that govern anxiety-substance use relations and their physical health and socioeconomic correlates (e.g., physical illnesses, life satisfaction). Michael J. Zvolensky, Ph.D. Center for Forensic Psychology This center is dedicated to the advancement of scientific knowledge in psycholegal issues and the development of state-of-the-art practices in psycholegal consultation through advanced forensic research and application of such research and theory to professional practice. CFP offers forensic consultation and evaluation services in a variety of criminal and civil areas of law. Forensic research areas include evaluation of services for divorcing families, evaluation of child witnesses, and jury decision-making. The development of CFP provides a meaningful connection between these diverse areas and encourages future exploration of areas where psychology interfaces with the legal system. For appointments, please call 713-743-8503. John P. Vincent, Ph.D., ABPP Gerald E. Harris, Ph.D. Center for Couples Therapy This center provides assessment and therapy services for couples in committed relationships. The Couples Check-up involves a comprehensive assessment of a couple's strength and weaknesses in communication. This profile is based on scientific research on couples' communication as it relates to long-term relationship success. Couples who are experiencing relationship difficulties as well as those who want to make an already good relationship even better can benefit from the Couples Check-up. Couples therapy is also available for couples who need help making changes to improve their relationships. For appointments, please email couples@uh.edu. Julia Babcock, Ph.D. John P. Vincent, Ph.D., ABPP Sleep and Anxiety Center of Houston (SACH) SACH is a clinical research center in the Department of Psychology at the University of Houston dedicated to understanding the connections between daytime emotions and behavior and nighttime sleep patterns and problems. SACH offers both research opportunities and low-cost clinical services for children and adults based on the latest scientific evidence. For appointments, please call 713-743-3400 or email us at sach@times.uh.edu. Candice Alfano, Ph.D. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies