Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Home Innovation, Design, and Entrepreneurship at Columbia Engineering Columbia Engineering plays a pivotal role in one of the world’s largest entrepreneurship ecosystems. Located in New York City, we are embedded in a local technology startup sector which now outpaces Silicon Valley in venture capital growth, with the School situated right in the heart of a dramatically expanding tech footprint in Manhattan. As such, Columbia Engineering is not only a source of innovation but also serves as a catalyst for local entrepreneurs through expert mentorship, access to critical infrastructure and unique research and development resources, including exceptional talent and state-of-the-art facilities. In November 2021, the Columbia Startup Fellows (CSF) program was announced. The program will allow early-stage startups to conduct product-oriented research and development using specialized equipment and facilities in Columbia labs, accelerating innovation in critical areas such as climate, energy, infrastructure, and materials. Read more here. Entrepreneurship at Columbia Engineering Columbia innovation spaces Industry collaboration Accelerator network Executive education Boot camps News » Helping Consumers Drive Change in the Fashion Industry Jeremy Yao MS’20 created Changing Room, a startup that gives fashionistas a way to shop smartly and sustainably online More May 18 2022 | By Kyle Barr Sensing a New Market Startup founders out of Lipson photonics lab receive $15.4 million investment to make machine sensing tech smaller and cheaper More Mar 14 2022 | By Kyle Barr Is “Metaverse” More Than the Latest Buzzword? AR startup innovator Alon Grinshpoon MS’18 says it’s time to think beyond typical AR and VR tech and consider the full 3D experience. More Jan 25 2022 | By Kyle Barr Rise of the Academic Entrepreneur Licensing and optioning of IP coming out of Columbia Engineering jumped dramatically over the past decade. Here are 10 cutting-edge tech and medical projects More Dec 16 2021 | By Kyle Barr | Photo Credit: Eileen Barroso Eight Inspiring Startups Based on ‘Green’ Tech Out of Columbia Six of the startup companies hail from the School of Engineering. Technical support and a strong interdisciplinary ethos have contributed to a thriving More Nov 17 2021 | By Kim Martineau | Photo Credit: Jon Brown | COLUMBIA NEWS Columbia Launches a Carbontech Initiative to Bring Climate Solutions to Market Program will help researchers and entrepreneurs develop and scale carbon-cutting technologies. More Nov 15 2021 | COLUMBIA NEWS Company spotlights At Columbia Engineering, we help entrepreneurs think critically about what it means to make technology for humans and their environment. Guided by our dedication to social entrepreneurship and human-centered innovation, our student, faculty, and alumni entrepreneurs pursue workable solutions for the right problems. Featured student startup Founded by Columbia Engineering students Teresa Cauvel, Rebecca Peyser, and Sona Shah, Neopenda provides a low-cost, low-power, and low-maintenance method for monitoring babies’ vital signs in the developing world. Read more about Neopenda here. Featured faculty startup Co-founded by Alissa Park, chair of the department of earth and environmental engineering at Columbia Engineering, Greenore provides greenhouse gas reduction and solid waste treatment solutions for steel, power, and coal chemical plants. Read more about Greenore here. Featured alumni startup Epibone, launched by Columbia Engineering alumni Nina Tandon and Sarindr “Ik” Bhumiratana, has developed a bioreactor capable of growing personalized human bone grafts. Read more about Epibone here. Designing a Better World Find out how Prof. Harry West teaches student entrepreneurs a human-centered approach to design. Read more 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact