Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Fulton Debating Society Back Back Close About Overview Travel Schedule Public Debate Series Alumni Related Links Communication Department Academic Calendar History Overview Past Officers Debate at Boston College Timeline Marquette Debate Society Debate Resolutions Moderators & Directors Awards Members News & Events Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Welcome to the updated web pages of the Fulton Debating Society of Boston College. These pages have been crafted to have a little something for anyone who visits our web site: Prospective students can read about the history of Fulton Debate, assess the Society's travel schedule, and find links about intercollegiate debate. Current Boston College students can read about the Society's competitive success, learn the history of the great wall in Gasson 305, and find information for contacting the Society. Alums of the Society can find the latest news along with complete lists of award winners. The site also contains a slide show from the 2012 Debate Reunion celebrating the history of Society along with issues of The Fultonian, our newsletter News More News Learn More Our Members & Resolutions The Fulton Prize Debate has been an annual tradition since the Society was founded in 1890. While the style of debate has changed over the decades, a surprisingly number of the resolutions argued by the Fultonians remain relevant today. Awards The stories accomplishments of our members, dating back to 1890. The Fultonian The Fulton Debating Society is blessed with more than 500 living alumni/ae. To help keep our alums connected to Fulton Debate, the Society produces an annual newsletter called The Fultonian. Fulton Debate Room In 1913, Brother Francis Schroen painted six noted orators from throughout history, along with a quotation from each. He also provided a slot for the name of each year's winner of the Fulton prize debate, starting with 1890 and going as far as the year 2104. Read More about Our History Back To Top Back To Top Fulton Debating Society St. Mary's Hall S360A 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3859 617-552-4280 katsulas@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College