Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Home About People Diversity Research Academics Events Faculty Activities Authors Journal Editors Presidents International Awards Visit Us Site Navigation Home About Internal Website People Regular Faculty Teaching Faculty Research Faculty Postdocs Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Administrative Staff Diversity Statement on anti-racism Related Research DIAP Committee Research Focus Areas Centers & Initiatives Academics Undergraduates Behavioral Decision Sciences Cognitive Science Cognitive Neuroscience Linguistics Psychology DUGs Honors Requirements Resources Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Aid Graduate Students CLPS Graduate Handbook Events CLPS Colloquium Series Cognition Seminar Developmental Brown Bag Speaker Series Ling Lang Lunch Perception Action Seminar Social Cognitive Science Seminar Speaker Series: "The Linguistic Expression of Racial and Ethnic Identity" Faculty Activities Authors Journal Editors Presidents International Awards Visit Us Faculty Activities Welcome to the CLPS Faculty Activities Section! Learn about some of the academic and professional activities of department members by clicking on the menu buttons on the left-hand side of this page. We have authors, book editors, journal editors-in-chief and presidents of professional organizations. Scroll through the announcements below to learn about department recipients of recent awards and honors. To nominate a department member for an internal or external award, follow the instructions on the Nominations Committee charge. To post an announcement about a CLPS recipient of a recent award or honor, email the Chair of the Nominations Committee ([email protected]) with the name of the honoree, the name of the award or honor, and a link to the award or honor information. Honors and Awards for the 2021-22 Academic Year Congratulations to Pauline (Polly) Jacobson on her election as Fellow of the Linguistic Society of America. Congratulations to David Badre, Finalist for the PROSE Award in Popular Science and Mathematics for his book On Task, Association of American Publishers. Congratulations to Amitai Shenhav, winner of this year's Society for Neuroeconomics Early Career Award! Congratulations to Roman Feiman on his appointment as a 2022-2024 Jacobs Foundation Research Fellow! The Jacobs Foundation Research Fellowship Program is a globally competitive fellowship program for early and mid-career researchers whose work is dedicated to improving the learning and development of children and youth worldwide. Well done, Roman! - https://jacobsfoundation.org/en/activity/jacobs-foundation-research-fellows/ David Badre has been elected Fellow of the Association for Psychological Science. Fellow status is awarded to APS members who have made sustained outstanding contributions to the science of psychology in the areas of research, teaching, service, and/or application. Congratulations, David! Oriel FeldmanHall won the APA Distinguished Scientific Award for an Early Career Contribution to Psychology.This award recognizes excellent psychologists who are at early stages of their research careers. Congratulations, Oriel! Joachim Krueger is featured in the Chronicle for Higher Education for his work on happiness. You can listen to the podcast here. Congratulations, Joachim! Oriel FeldmanHall has been awarded the Cognitive Neuroscience Society Young Investigator Award.Congratulations! Oriel FeldmanHall is a winner of the 2022 APS Janet Taylor Spence Award for Transformative Early Career Contributions. Congratulations to David Badre, winner of an inaugural Midcareer Research Achievement Award. This award recognizes a select group of standout scholars who are nominated by their peers for their distinguished and transformative research. Congratulations to Elena Festa, winner of the Karen T. Romer Award for Excellence in Advising. This award was created in 2004 to recognize and reward excellence in advising by Brown faculty. Honors and Awards for the 2020-21 Academic Year Congratulations to Professor David Sobel on his election as Fellow of the American Psychological Association. Amitai Shenhav was a winner of the 2020 APS Janet Taylor Spence Award for Transformative Early Career Contributions. Bertram Malle has a paper that just received the Scientific Impact Award (2019), Society of Experimental Social Psychology, for 1994 journal article on social dominance orientation (with Felicia Pratto, Jim Sidanius, Lisa Stallworth). Steve Sloman was elected a Fellow for the Cognitive Science Society. Steve Sloman was elected a Fellow for the Society for Experimental Psychologists. Michael Frank has won the National Academy of Sciences 2021 Troland Research Award. Amitai Shenhav has been awarded the Cognitive Neuroscience Society Young Investigator Award. Congratulations to David Badre on the publication of his new book: On Task: How Our Brain Gets Things Done, Princeton University Press. Oriel FeldmanHall was awarded the Early Career Award from the Society for Neuroeconomics. Amitai Shenhav was elected a Fellow of the Association for Psychological Science. Oriel FeldmanHall wins the 2020 Society for Social Neuroscience Early Career Award. Roman Feiman was named a Rising Star by the Association for Psychological Science. Roman Feiman wins a 2021 Salomon Award for his project: The role of grammar and descriptions in referent identification. Congratulations to Professor David Sobel, recipient of the 2021 Howard R. Swearer Engaged Faculty Award for Research! Daphna Buchsbaum is a recipient of an Early Career Research Contribution Award from the Society for Research in Child Development. Congratulations Daphna! Faculty Activities Authors Journal Editors Presidents International Awards Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Brown University Box 1821 Metcalf Research Building 190 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2727 Fax: 401-863-2255 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top