Skip to main content Search for people, departments & websites Submit keywords Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Main navigation expanded Admissions Academics Research Campus Life About News You are here: Home Civic Engagement Civic Engagement Civic Engagement Across the University, from Columbia College undergraduates to the public health professionals, doctors, nurses and dental students at the Medical Center, Columbia has a deep and longstanding commitment to civic engagement. Programs and Partnerships Learn about Columbia's long-standing community-based programs and partnerships. Community Benefits The new Manhattanville campus plan embraces a wide range of shared benefits with West Harlem, New York City and New York State. Undergraduate Opportunities Learn about the civic engagement opportunities available to undergraduates. Volunteer Opportunities Interested in volunteering? Find programs in which Columbia employees, students and student organizations can become involved. Dental Care Columbia University's Dental School provides oral health care services to the Upper Manhattan community through clinics and a variety of free services. Columbia Community Service The giving campaign for staff, faculty, and retirees of Columbia, Barnard, and Teachers College provides grants to local nonprofit organizations to help address the needs of underserved individuals in our local community. Voter Registration Congressional Internships Local Elected Officials Eric H. Holder Initiative for Civil and Political Rights The Eric H. Holder Initiative will ensure that Columbia becomes the world’s most innovative academic institution for the study of historical, contemporary, and future visions of justice. The Knight First Amendment Institute The Knight First Amendment Institute works to defend and strengthen the freedoms of speech and the press in the digital age through strategic litigation, research, and public education. “I think of the duties, the rights, and the weighty responsibilities of American citizenship – responsibilities that are, as of this moment, entrusted to each of you.” Eric H. Holder JR., CC'73, LAW'76 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close