Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Instruction and Curriculum Leadership About Programs Students Faculty News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact ICL Programs Undergraduate Majors and Minors Undergraduate DegreesABA Undergrad MinorK-12 Education Undergrad MinorYouth Development Undergrad Major Applied Behavior Analysis ABA MS and EdDABA Undergrad Minor Early Childhood Elementary Education Instruction and Curriculum Instructional Design & Technology Literacy School Library Specialist Secondary Education Special Education Graduate Certificates Urban EducationIDTLiteracy Leadership & CoachingAutism StudiesSchool Library Information SpecialistSTEM Teacher LeadershipSpecial Education Comprehensive Program Rankings Take Action ICL Degrees Apply Now ICL Advising Contact Us Home ICL Programs Special Education Special Education The Special Education Program at the University of Memphis is designed to facilitate the development of professional practitioners and leaders with skills specific to meeting the diverse needs of individuals with exceptionalities. Special Education programs include both educator preparation and behavior therapist (BCBA) development options. Additionally, advanced terminal degrees are offered for those seeking leadership roles in both program areas. Teacher licensure in Special Education is offered in one of two concentration areas. Those seeking to teach students with high incidence disabilities (such as learning disabilities) may seek a license in Modified Special Education. Those seeking to teach students with more involved disabilities (such as more severe intellectual disabilities) may seek licensure in Comprehensive Special Education. Learn more about the SPED program Mission Statement The central mission and vision of the College of Education, the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership, and the Special Education undergraduate and graduate programs align. The Special Education program's mission values the preparation of Educational Leaders who demonstrate a thorough knowledge of the learning process, skill in instructional planning and delivery, and a disposition to create dynamic learning environments that incorporate multicultural knowledge into instructional design and delivery. The primary goal of teacher education programs in the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership is to prepare educational leaders who will, through knowledge, skills and disposition, conduct themselves in ways that command respect for themselves and the profession and inspire others to take positive action. Similarly, the Special Education teacher education program is designed to prepare educational leaders who are able to maximize the development and learning of individuals with diverse and exceptional needs in a variety of multicultural program settings. SPED Career Opportunities Students graduating from the Department's Special Education undergraduate and graduate degree programs will find themselves well prepared for a variety of careers in the field of disability services especially teaching. State licensed preK-12 teachers will typically deliver special education curricula in public and private schools while many will take on school leadership roles. There are also careers available in the technical support and adult service fields. There is an extreme shortage of licensed special educators in the field today. Students graduating from the Special Education Program at the University of Memphis are highly sought after and typically have little problem securing teaching positions in area schools. For students interested in career choices in supervision or higher education, the advanced masters and doctoral programs will provide the stepping stones for such undertakings. SPED Degrees Certifications and Endorsements: Autism Online Certificate Multi-Tier System Support Special Education Comprehensive Special Education Early Childhood Bachelor of Science in Education Degree: BSEd in Teaching All Learners Leading to Dual Licensure in Elementary Education AND Special Educator The 'Teaching All Learners' or TAL(N) program is an undergraduate bachelor's degree plan leading to teacher licensure in both Special Education and K-6 Elementary Education. Master of Arts in Teaching Degree: MAT Leading to Licensure as a Special Educator The MAT program offers those without a bachelor's degree in teaching the option to further their education while obtaining an initial teaching license. Programs leading to Special Education teacher licensure in: 459 Special Education PreK-3 144 Interventionist K-8 (Online option) 145 Interventionist 6-12 (Online option) 461 Special Education Comprehensive (Online) Master of Science Degree: MS Leading to Licensure as a Special Educator with elective focus in: 459 Special Education PreK-3 144 Interventionist K-8 (Online option) 145 Interventionist 6-12 (Online option) 461 Special Education Comprehensive (Online) The MS degree offers those with a teaching license the ability to further their education while obtaining a specialty in a specific area of special education. Alternately, the MS is available as an initial program of studies leading to Leading to Behavior Analyst Certification as a Board Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA), see ABA Program for details. Doctor of Education Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Degree: EdD Leading to Licensure as a Special Educator Leading to Behavior Analyst Certification The Ed.D program offers a specialized set of courses leading to a terminal degree in Instruction and Curriculum Leadership. Those seeking advanced research skills have the option of specializing in Special Education (General Studies) or Applied Behavior Analysis (Initial or Advanced Certification) GRADUATE LEVEL PROGRAMS & DEADLINE TO APPLY > Licensure options Special education encompasses a wide variety of children and thus three licensure programs are available. Special Education Early Childhood (SPED EC) Licensure: This licensure is designed for students interested in teaching infants and young children from birth through age 6. The training emphasizes working specifically with infants, young children, and their families to identify and provide early evidence-based interventions. Programs may be delivered in the children’s homes or in special or integrated preschool environments. Special Education Comprehensive (SPED Comp) Licensure: This licensure is designed for student interested in teaching children whose disabilities are more severe in nature such as moderate/severe intellectual disabilities, ASD, and/ or physical disabilities. The training emphasizes inclusion but also offers courses in general curriculum access, evidence-based instructional strategies for this population, behavior and classroom management, augmented and alternative communication, and medical issues. Special Education and Elementary Education Dual Licensure: This licensure is designed for students interested in teaching children with mild/moderate learning disabilities and/or Emotional Behavioral Disorders (EBD) within the general education setting, as a co-teaching model, or in a resource room setting and will receive dual licenses. At the undergraduate level we offer Elementary Education (K-6) and Special Education Interventionist (K-8) OR Interventionist (6-12) through the TALN undergraduate program. At the graduate level we offer Elementary Education (K-6) and Special Education Interventionist (K-8) OR Interventionist (6-12). ABA Certification: We have a board certified program to become a certified Applied Behavioral Analyst (BCBA) through our ABA program (see ABA program for details). SPED Program Highlights Research Projects, Grants, Scholarships Service The faculty of the Special Education Program conducts research initiatives that target community outreach, cutting edge teaching methodologies, and teaching with technology. The faculty averages about eight externally funded grants per year that bring in over $4,500,000. Most of these research endeavors focus on community outreach in areas such as inclusion, positive behavior supports, paraprofessional training, early intervention, literacy, assistive technology, and teacher recruitment/retention. The faculty and graduate assistants involved in these projects are committed to improving the conditions for persons with disabilities and their families in the Mid-South region. There is also a commitment to carry out research and publish the highest quality research. Special Education faculty members are key national contributors in the areas of applied behavior analysis, cultural diversity, video self-modeling, preschool inclusion, teacher recruitment and retention, family involvement. The program faculty members have developed a history of securing external sponsorship to support a variety of significant research agendas that is second to none. Students leaving our doctoral program have filled professorship positions at colleges across the country as well as becoming leaders in the local special education community. For more information please contact sped@memphis.edu Contact Us SPED Faculty Keishana Barnes Luann Ley Davis Will Hunter, Program Coordinator Linda Page Kay Reeves SPED Program email, sped@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/16/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.