Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering (MSME) Develop and Improve Products, Machines and Systems Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Mechanical & Aerospace Engr 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Take Mechanical Systems and Products From Idea Through Implementation The MS in Mechanical Engineering program at UCF is designed to advance your knowledge and skills in the areas of mechanical systems and thermofluids. Choose from a wide variety of courses that provide you with state-of-the-art research opportunities working with faculty mentions who are active in various sponsored research funded by local and national industry, as well as many federal agencies. Plus, the fully online mechanical engineering program offers you the flexibility and convenience needed to balance work, school and life. Here, you’ll get superior academics enriched by research experiences with a number of possible exposures ranking from traditional mechanical engineering research in energy and power generation systems, mechanical systems, design and controls to innovative work in nanotechnology, miniaturization, bioengineering and interdisciplinary research. From innovative curriculum to research facilities, the mechanical engineering program provides you with an opportunity to learn and train across multiple disciplines. UCF mechanical engineering graduates gain knowledge and expertise in mechanical engineering-specific challenges, as well as understand engineered systems for many applications. Plus, with close contact to key personnel from local industry, you’ll have a solid avenue for future employment opportunities to start or advance your career. Mechanical Engineering – Guidance Control and Dynamics This track is designed to prepare you for a career as an engineer in the aerospace industry. The curriculum includes courses related to guidance control and dynamics with applications in aerospace engineering. Mechanical Engineering – Mechanical Systems This track focuses on topics such as the mechanics of materials, computational methods and engineering design. On this track, you’ll deep-dive into mathematical models, the mechanics of materials, dynamics and continuum mechanics. Mechanical Engineering – Thermofluids This track includes topics such as fluid mechanics, thermodynamics and turbomachinery. You’ll concentrate on heat transfer, fluid mechanics, classical thermodynamics and mathematical models. Mechanical Engineering – Accelerated BS to MSME The accelerated BS to MSME track allows highly qualified undergraduate majors in mechanical engineering to begin taking graduate-level courses that will count toward a master’s degree while completing a baccalaureate degree program. Complete your bachelor’s and master’s degree in five years while enrolled in full-time course work. Request Information Highlights UCF’s mechanical engineering graduate program ranked No. 71 (No. 41 among public universities) in the nation according to U.S. News & World Report. Currently, there are more than 650,000 mechanical engineers across the U.S. — a number expected to continue rising over the next decade. Mechanical engineering graduates earn an annual average salary of $94K nationwide. Application Deadlines Fall July 1 Spring December 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Intermediate Dynamics Learn the dynamics of particles, rigid bodies and distributed mass systems. Topics include: Hamilton’s principle, Lagrange’s equations, numerical methods and mechanisms. Continuum Mechanics Get an introduction to tensors, deformation and strain, stress, balance laws, constitutive equations and applications in linear elasticity. Classical Thermodynamics Explore a general postulative approach to classical macroscopic thermodynamics featuring states as fundamental constructs. Conditions of equilibrium, stability criteria and thermodynamic potentials. Maxwell relations and phase transitions. Mechanical Engineering Skills You'll Learn Use the technique, skills and modern tools necessary for mechanical engineering while acquiring and applying new knowledge as needed. Identify, formulate and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of mechanical engineering, science and mathematics. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use mechanical engineering judgment to draw conclusions. Career Opportunities Mechanical Engineer Electrical Manager Manufacturing Engineer Validation Engineer Combustion Engineer Aircraft Engineer Engine Designer Engineering Research Manager Admission Requirements While a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering, aerospace engineering or a related discipline is recommended, it is not required. However, if you do not hold a bachelor’s in one of these fields, you’ll need to complete several undergraduate articulation courses prior to admission. Applications are accepted for the fall and spring semesters. All required materials must be submitted prior to the application deadline. Please note that faculty members may choose to conduct face-to-face or telephone interviews before accepting an applicant into their research program. Request Information In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: Official transcripts Resume Letters of recommendation Statement of educational, research and professional career objectives Request Information Mechanical Engineering News Check out more stories Science & Technology The Crawl Before The Launch Two UCF alums will play a major — albeit painstakingly slow — role in moving the NASA’s historic Space Launch System with Orion spaceship over… Student Life UCF is 1 of 7 Universities to Win Grant to Support NASA’s Artemis Program The grant means more underrepresented students – who make up 48.5% of the student body at UCF – will have an opportunity to work with engineering, physics,… Student Life 19 UCF Students Living the Dream, Working at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center Students benefit from on-the-job training and soft-skills development, and some candidates are converting their internships into jobs after graduation. Colleges & Campus UCF Graduate Honored by NSF for Engineering, Locomotion Work Zachary Whitacre ’21 has specialized in the interface of engineering and human health as a mechanical engineering student at UCF. Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Masters Mechanical Engineering (MSME) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Mechanical Engineering (MSME) program offered at UCF. Loading... University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida