Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Real Estate MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Real Estate MS Apply Request More Info Real Estate MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Real Estate Become a value creator and innovative strategist in today’s ever-changing real estate industry with the Master of Science in Real Estate in the Fox School of Business and Management at Temple University. Designed for business leaders, entrepreneurs and experienced professionals, the 30-credit online Real Estate MS focuses on the various phases and new technologies of real estate (AI, AR, Argus, XLS) that provide a fresh perspective and intellectual advantage in a traditional brokerage-dominated industry. Topics covered in the degree program include advanced financial modeling, development, infrastructure development and finance, optimization of assets, and valuation. Through the Real Estate MS, students gain a deep understanding of the economic, environmental, financial and social impact real estate has on creating diverse and inclusive communities. The master’s program also examines how unpredictable events in society, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and social equity movements in 2020, can change the real estate landscape—fueling students to generate innovative solutions and research that close systemic gaps. What sets apart our Master of Science in Real Estate? Networking opportunities: Students in our degree program have access to extraordinary networking opportunities inside and outside of the classroom through a program that attracts real estate professionals and business leaders from around the world. A flexible, virtual program: Not only will students earn their master’s from one of the top business schools in the country, but the synchronous online format of our program allows them to do it from anywhere in the world—making it ideal for working professionals. Our renowned faculty: Our diverse, expert faculty have been active in the real estate world for more than 30 years. They call on their professional accomplishments and real estate experience to provide students with a one-of-a-kind education. These industry relationships help our students gain access to real estate companies and professionals outside of the program. Program Format & Curriculum Students in the Master of Science in Real Estate program complete 30 credits, including a three-credit experiential capstone that can be fulfilled through an independent study structure. The master’s program’s part-time format has an expected completion time frame of 18 to 20 months. Courses in the online program are designed to maximize peer-to-peer learning through collaborative experiential learning using case studies, class activities and real-world case problems. Some of the courses include Enterprise Real Estate Asset Optimization, Inclusive Economic Development and Placemaking Through Real Estate Innovation, Real Estate Finance and Capital Markets, and Real Estate Law and Practice. Learn more about courses in the Real Estate MS program. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration DBA Business Administration MBA Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,142.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors The academic advisors for the Master of Science in Real Estate will help you stay on track to graduate, ensure you remain on a clear professional path and assist you with any questions you may have while in the program. David Wilk, assistant professor and director of the real estate program. Email: david.wilk@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-6675 Robert T. Rajewski, assistant professor and assistant academic director of real estate programs. Email: robert.rajewski@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-6675 William Bunting, assistant professor of research. Email: william.bunting@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-6671 James M. Lammendola, associate professor of practice. Email: james.lammendola@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-4124 Program Contact David Wilk, assistant professor and director of the real estate program, is the program contact. Email: david.wilk@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-6675 Student Clubs & Organizations The Temple Real Estate Organization encourages a strong professional interface among all of the disciplines that relate to real estate. Its goal is to foster scholarship and professional excellence through communication between the academic and business professional community in the fields of architecture, finance and development, law and land economics, real estate, and urban planning. Learn about other student professional organizations available at Fox School of Business. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. BU-RE-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Real Estate MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info