Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School 2016 Top Gun Baylor>Baylor Law>Academics>Advocacy>Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition>2016 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Baylor Law School’s 2016 Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition Ben Wallace of Yale Law School won the Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition on June 5, 2016, in Waco, Texas. Videos Introduction Video Interview with the 2016 Top Gun Photo Gallery Orientation Dinner Preliminary Rounds Final Round Competitors and Award Winners The case this year was a criminal trial in which the defendant was charged with Aggravated Bank Robbery. For winning the tournament, Wallace received a $10,000 prize and the title "Top Gun." "This is the best competition in law school mock trial," said Wallace, "it was an honor just to be invited and it's even more of an honor to win." Now in its seventh year, Baylor Law School's Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition is a prestigious, invitation-only mock trial tournament. The best advocates from some of the nation's top sixteen trial advocacy schools compete head-to-head in the winner-take-all tournament. "We started Top Gun in 2010 to be a new type of competition that challenges the most successful mock trial competitors in the country," said Gerald Powell, The Abner V. McCall Professor of Evidence at Baylor Law School. "Top Gun gives the advocates a chance to compete against the very best and most talented law students in the country," continued Powell. "Our competitors leave the competition with a sense of pride in their accomplishment." Baylor Law School distinguishes its Top Gun competition from other mock trials with its innovative rules. Competitors do not get to prepare for the case prior to the start of the competition. Once they arrive at Baylor Law School, the competitors are given a case file and only 24 hours to prepare before competing in the first rounds. The case packets contain depositions, records, photographs and videos. Witnesses are provided and the competitors have only a short period of time to prepare them for the round. As the host, Baylor Law School does not compete. "Top Gun is unique—competitors only have 24 hours to prepare the case; there is only one lawyer for each side; the case file changes in some respect every day of the competition; and then there is the prize money—$10,000 thanks to our great friends at Naman Howell Smith & Lee," said Powell. Baylor Law School's Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition is sponsored by the law firm Naman Howell Smith & Lee, PLLC, which has offices in the Texas cities of Austin, Fort Worth, San Antonio, and Waco. A bank robbery in Waco, a reformed ex-con accused of robbing the bank, a get-away driver snitch, and a missing boyfriend who could be the key to the case. The 2016 Top Gun competition was a classic tale of "who done it?" Fictional character John Hogan was charged in federal court with Aggravated Bank Robbery after the get-away driver names him as her accomplice. This year's fictional case featured nine witnesses and nearly ninety exhibits, including depositions, photos, and surveillance video. The Top Gun competition is nationally known for its realism and attention to detail. Included in the case was a special appearance by eight-year-old Kate Counseller, daughter of Baylor Law Professor Jeremy Counseller. Playing the role of an eyewitness to the robbery, Kate's testimony in the final round introduced issues regarding the competency and testimony of child witnesses. Additionally, Dr. Charles Weaver, a nationally-renowned expert in eyewitness issues and professor at Baylor University, testified in the final round, giving competitors a shot at examining a real expert who is at the top of his field. For the first time in the history of the Top Gun Competition, the final round was a rematch of the previous year between Ben Wallace from Yale Law School and Rahul Hari from New York University School of Law. Being the last year both were eligible to compete, this year’s Top Gun was particularly special for them. Since debate tournaments in high school, they often found themselves facing off in the final rounds of competition. Wallace claimed this year's title of Top Gun, Hari won the competition in 2015—a final testament to how closely matched these two lawyers are. Baylor Law School wishes both of these Top Guns good luck as they move on from law school to real practice. Serving as the presiding judge during the final round was the Honorable Judge Ed Kinkeade, judge of the United States District Court, Northern District of Texas. Serving on the jury as judges for the final round were: Marianne Auld, Partner and Chair of Appellate Section, Kelly Hart & Hallman Malcolm Bales, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas Brit Featherston, Executive Assistant United States Attorney, United States Attorney’s Office, Eastern District of Texas Hayes Fuller, President, Naman Howell Smith & Lee PLLC Letty Martinez, Partner, Varghese Summersett Lyn Robbins, Partner, Robbins Travis PLLC Michelle Simpson Tuegel, Partner, Hunt & Tuegel PLLC This year's Top Gun competitors were: American University, Washington College of Law - Belgin Palaz Campbell University, Norman Adrian Wiggins School of Law - Jacob Morse Chicago-Kent College of Law - Bryce Hensley Drexel University, Thomas R. Kline School of Law - Rachel Holt Georgetown University Law Center - Christopher Godin Loyola Law School, Los Angeles - James Caress New York University School of Law - Rahul Hari Quinnipiac University School of Law - Zachary M. Dunn Samford University, Cumberland School of Law - Collin Hatcher South Texas College of Law - Jake Hicks Stetson University College of Law - Leon Hunter Temple University, Beasley School of Law - Courtney Chlebina University of California, Berkeley School of Law - Dustin Vandenberg University of South Carolina School of Law - Colin Spangler William & Mary Law School - Laura Worden Yale Law School - Ben Wallace In addition to winner Ben Wallace from Yale Law School and finalist Rahul Hari from New York University School of Law, the semi-finalists were Rachel Holt from Drexel University, Thomas R. Kline School of Law and Leon Hunter from Stetson University College of Law. Belgin Palaz from American University, Washington College of Law received the Professionalism Award, Ben Wallace along and Nick Crown (2nd chair and technology assistant) from Yale Law School won the Courtroom Technology Award, and Rahul Hari from New York University School of Law received the Excellence in Evidence Award. CONTACT: Josh Weaver Email: Josh_Weaver@baylor.edu ABOUT BAYLOR LAW SCHOOL Established in 1857, Baylor Law School was one of the first law schools in Texas and one of the first west of the Mississippi River. Today, the school has more than 7,200 living alumni. It is accredited by the American Bar Association and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools. Baylor Law School has a record of producing outstanding lawyers, many of whom decide upon a career in public service. The Law School boasts two governors, members or former members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, two former directors of the FBI, U.S. ambassadors, federal judges, justices of the Texas Supreme Court and members of the Texas Legislature, among its notable alumni. In its law specialties rankings, U.S. News & World Report ranked Baylor Law's trial advocacy program as #3 in the nation. Baylor Law School is also ranked No. 51 in the magazine's 2018 edition of “America's Best Graduate Schools.” The National Jurist ranks Baylor Law in its top 10 law schools for practical training, and second best value in private legal education in the nation. The Business Insider places Baylor Law among the top 50 law schools in the nation. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution, characterized as having "high research activity" by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. The University provides a vibrant campus community for approximately 16,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 80 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Baylor sponsors 19 D1 varsity athletic teams and is a founding member of the Big XII Conference. Learn more at baylor.edu Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School