Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > About Us > Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC > Pipeline Programs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Messages from Leadership Report of CUIMC Task Force for Addressing Structural Racism Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine Mailman School of Public Health Faculty Diversity & Inclusion at CUIMC Staff Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Pipeline Programs DEI in the Community News Contact DEI at CUIMC Pipeline Programs Improving Diversity Among Health Care Professionals, Researchers in Future Generations Columbia University Irving Medical Center offers several programs to interest school-aged students in medicine and science as a way to increase diversity in those fields. Some of the programs are done in conjunction with Columbia University and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital. NOTE: Some of these programs have been suspended during the pandemic. Programs for College and Pre-College Students Biostatistics Epidemiology Summer Training Diversity Program (BEST) The program works to expand and diversify the behavioral and biomedical sciences’ workforce by introducing undergraduates from underrepresented populations to biostatistics and cardiovascular and pulmonary disease research. Learn More About the Program NERA MedPrep HCOP Academy The summer enrichment program targets traditionally underrepresented and/or economically disadvantaged college freshmen and sophomores interested in attending medical school. Learn More About the Program Gerald E. Thomson Undergraduate Pre-Medical Program (GET-UPP) The pre-medical mentorship program supplements students’ academic trajectory as they pursue medical school admission. The program is for undergraduate students from Columbia University, Barnard College, and City University of New York schools. Learn More About the Program Summer Health Professions Education Program (SHPEP) This six-week summer enrichment program is for first- and second-year college students from groups who are underrepresented in health professions. Learn More About the Program Summer of Translational Aging Research for Undergraduates (STAR U) The goal of the program is to increase diversity in the field of neuroscience and aging. The program provides mentorship and training to 10-12 young scientists. Learn More About the Program Summer Public Health Scholars Program (SPHSP) The program for undergraduate students works to increase interest in and knowledge of public health and biomedical science careers. Learn More About the Program Summer Program for Underrepresented Students (SPURS) The programs exposes undergraduates to careers in biomedical research with the goal of expanding the pool of medical and biomedical research applicants from diverse and economically disadvantaged groups whose members have been underrepresented in medicine and biomedical research. In 2021, the program was expanded to include students interested in cardiovascular research. The Cardiovascular Summer Program for Underrepresented Students (CSPURS) is for undergraduate students majoring in biology. Participants are placed in laboratories of Columbia University faculty for a nine-week summer research training experience. Learn More About the Program Summer Youth Employment Program (SYEP) For more than 20 years, SYEP has placed local high school- and college-aged youths in medical center departments to provide first-hand work experience and foster mentoring relations. Learn More About the Program Continuing Umbrella of Research Experiences (CURE) The Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center helps Columbia freshmen and local high school students in a two-year program that gives students hands-on experiences in science, medicine, and research and includes mentorship and assistance with the college application process. The program focuses on individuals from low-income communities, first-generation college students, and individuals underrepresented in medicine and science. Undergraduates and high school students work in labs, participate in scientific research, connect with Columbia faculty mentors, and hear presentations by leading scientists and physicians. Learn More About the Program State Pre-College Enrichment Program (S-PREP) This college prep program is designed for middle school and high school students interested in pursuing a career in medicine or related STEM fields. The academic enrichment program is offered on Saturdays to 50 minority and/or economically disadvantaged high school students from the New York City area who show interest in careers in medicine and/or the sciences. Students participate in activities and workshops that provide opportunities to gain hands-on experience in science. They also participate in supplemental didactic instruction, an SAT preparation course, and other educational activities. Learn More About the Program Summer Research Program for Science Teachers The program contributes to the improvement of secondary students’ understanding of science by providing their teachers with experience in the practice of science. Learn More About the Program Lang Youth Medical Program A six-year science enrichment program sponsored by NewYork-Presbyterian, the program mobilizes the resources of NYP and CUIMC to prepare young adults from the Washington Heights and Inwood community for careers in biomedical science and medicine. The program offers weekend and summer science classes for exceptional, science-minded New York City public school students. Learn More About the Program BRAINYAC Program Selected New York City public high school students are placed in Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute neuroscience labs for six weeks of intensive mentored research. Learn More About the Program Programs That Reach Younger Children America Reads & Counts The program partners with local elementary schools to improve literacy in grades K-5. Learn More About the Program Reach Out & Read The NewYork-Presbyterian pre-literacy program highlights the importance of reading for children from 6 months to 5 years of age. Learn More About the Program Young Docs The Black and Latino Student Organization (BALSO) program sends medical students to local schools to expose minority students to the fun/exciting sides of medicine and science. Learn More About the Program Zuckerman Institute Outreach and Education Programs The programs showcase the groundbreaking research of the Institute in creative ways for school children, families, after-school groups, and adults. Learn More About the Program Columbia University Neuroscience Outreach (CUNO) The program facilitates science and neurosciences related activities for local youth and the general public to expose them to science. Learn More About the Program Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top