Alert message This dialog contains an alert message for the Penn State community. For the latest COVID-19 news and information, visit Penn State's Coronavirus Information website. Continue to follow CDC-recommended health/safety precautions, contact your healthcare provider if you have questions or feel ill, and review information from state and national health authorities. Close Coronavirus Updates Skip to main content This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Featured Impact: Beyond Limitations Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Penn State among top 100 universities in the world in 2022 QS Rankings Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Featured Impact: First To Inspire Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment College and Campus News Surviving in Place: Environmental archeology in Madagascar Hotline Give Apply More Full site navigation menu This dialog contains the full navigation menu for www.psu.edu. Search Term Hotline Give Apply This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment Find Information For: Visitors Prospective Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Business and Industry Veterans and Military Alumni Media Helpful Links Find a Campus Maps Careers Directory Academic Calendar Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Close Colleges The University is made up of sixteen academic colleges and several additional schools that range from the arts to the sciences with many subjects in between. Agricultural Sciences Develop impactful solutions while discovering why the College of Agricultural Sciences is a world leader in agricultural research and learning. Arts and Architecture Immerse yourself in a vibrant arts and design community including academic programs in music, theatre, visual arts, graphic design, art history, architecture, and landscape architecture. Smeal College of Business Become part of a vibrant intellectual community offering highly ranked undergraduate, graduate, doctoral, and executive business education opportunities. Donald P. Bellisario College of Communications Join the world of news, advertising, or public relations, where programs mix practical experience and academic rigor. Earth and Mineral Sciences Impact the planet’s future through programs in natural sciences, social science, and engineering offered by the College of Earth and Mineral Sciences. Education Learn to teach from more than twenty teacher preparation programs, including a Professional Development School that has won four major national awards. Engineering Become a world-class engineer who learns to use fundamentals and broad-based thinking to discover innovative solutions for worldwide issues. Health and Human Development Through the College of Health and Human Development, you’ll gain a solid foundation for positively impacting the way people live—now and far into the future. Information Sciences and Technology Solve real-world problems at the intersection of information, technology, and society through collaborative and interdisciplinary learning opportunities. School of International Affairs Prepare for your career as a global leader in a complex world with a professional and interdisciplinary Master of International Affairs degree. Dickinson Law Enter the legal field fully prepared to excel thanks to intentionally small class sizes, reimagined curriculum, and proximity to major legal markets. Penn State Law Develop your legal expertise through challenging and innovative classroom and experiential learning with interdisciplinary study opportunities across University Park. The Liberal Arts Learn to recognize problems, create solutions, and combine your liberal arts education and enriching out-of-class experiences to make an impact. Medicine From patient health care services to research, learn the art and science of medicine with the College of Medicine’s world-class faculty and programs. Nese College of Nursing Join the next generation of nurses and nurse scientists while enhancing the health of all people through quality care and education. Eberly College of Science Become a scientifically trained leader and innovator prepared to enrich lives, improve society, and address global challenges. Schreyer Honors College With access to distinguished faculty, smaller honors class sizes, and individualized support, your honors experience at Penn State will position you for success. Division of Undergraduate Studies Explore multiple areas of study and develop your interests before entering a college through the Division of Undergraduate Studies. Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Get News By Email // Discover News Explore News Careers Facts and Rankings Colleges Campuses Health Care Research Impact Resources Prospective Students Current Students International Students Business and Industry Veterans and Military Visitors Faculty and Staff Alumni Media Popular Links Maps Directory Libraries Academic Calendar LionPATH Stay Connected Emails / Headlines Emergency Notifications Penn State Go Strategic Communications Report Misconduct Police 201 Old Main, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802 814-865-4700 Contact Us Privacy Statement Non Discrimination Accessibility Equal Opportunity Legal Statements The Pennsylvania State University © 2022