Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Liberal Studies Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Liberal Studies Major Apply Request More Info Liberal Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies Build a customized undergraduate degree program based on your academic and professional goals with the Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies at Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. Flexible by design, this interdisciplinary, 123-credit program delivers a broad-based liberal arts degree comprised of upper-level coursework to align with students’ academic or professional goals. The program is intended to give nontraditional students the opportunity to tailor their studies, work at their own pace and expand their career options. The Liberal Studies BA reacclimates students to the academic environment while maintaining their full-time careers. Coursework helps you develop your analytical, critical thinking, reading, research and writing skills to propel your career to the next level. Gain credits for courses you have already completed and for your existing work experience. You can earn up to six credits for professional experience, published works or non-credit certificate programs completed prior to enrollment by submitting a Life Experience Portfolio. Classes are offered in person at Temple’s Main Campus, as well as its Ambler and Center City campuses, with select courses offered online. Tracks You can choose between the Humanities or Social Sciences tracks, and within each track, you’ll choose to concentrate in a single subject area. All students complete three core liberal arts courses. Each track allows students to select a concentration of five courses from a single department, as well as four courses from other departments within their chosen track. For example, students in the Humanities track who choose to concentrate their coursework in Greek and Roman classics will complete five Greek and Roman classics courses and four humanities courses. Students in the Social Sciences track who choose to concentrate their coursework in anthropology will complete five anthropology courses and four social sciences courses. Classes & Curriculum The Liberal Studies Major is structured so students can customize their course of study. All students complete the following required courses. Approaches to Liberal Studies, Critical Thinking in Psychology or Critical Thinking, and Reading Culture. Additional required courses may vary, depending on if you choose the Humanities or Social Science track. Learn more about Liberal Studies Major courses. Related Graduate Degrees Liberal Arts MLA Related Graduate Certificates Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies , contact the following staff member. Stephanie Morawski is an administrator in the Liberal Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-8516 Email: morawski@temple.edu The following staff member leads the Liberal Studies Department. Michael D. Szekely is the director of the Liberal Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-6479 Email: mszekely@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your Temple experience by immersing yourself in new cultures, histories and perspectives in countries such as China, Germany, Ghana and Italy, as well as at Temple’s Rome and Tokyo campuses. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-LIBS-BA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Liberal Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info