Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript Office of Research Central research@uw.edu PH# 206.616.0804; FAX# 206.685.9210 UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Home UW Research Office of Research Central Advisory Boards Research Advisory Board Research Advisory Board Advisory Boards Home Advisory Boards Research Advisory Board The Research Advisory Board (RAB) provides the Vice-Provost of Research with counsel on a wide variety of matters relating to the University of Washington’s research enterprise. The RAB includes members of the university community from across the disciplines. The RAB meets monthly and is chaired by Mari Ostendorf, Vice Provost for Research. Meeting Schedule Research Advisory Board (RAB) meetings usually fall on the first Friday of each month from 9:30-11:00 a.m. Meetings will be held virtually, unless otherwise specified, and will then take place in Gerberding Hall conference room 142. Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 October 1 January 7 April 1 November 5 February 4 May 6 December 3 March 4 June 3 Committee Chair Mari Ostendorf, Vice Provost for Research, Office of Research Current Members Name Title Francois Baneyx Professor, Chemical Engineering, Director of CoMotion, Vice Provost for Innovation Michele A. Basso Director, Washington National Primate Research Center Carolyn A. Brennan Assistant Vice Chancellor, Research, UW Bothell Academic Affairs Anja Canfield-Budde Associate Vice President, UW-IT Information Management Sarah M. Castro Director of Federal Relations, External Affairs Shuyi S. Chen Professor, Atmospheric Sciences; Associate Dean for Research, College of the Environment Mike Crowder Professor, Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine Sara R. Curran Professor, International Studies, Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies; Professor, Sociology; Director, Center for Studies in Demography and Ecology Carol A. Davis Professor and Associate Dean for Research, College of Education Trisha N. Davis Professor and Chair, Biochemistry Carrie Sturts Dossick Professor and Associate Dean for Research, College of Built Environments Joanna Glickler Assistant Vice President, Corporate & Foundation Relations Cheryl L. Greengrove Associate Vice Chancellor for Research, UW Tacoma Lisa A. Isozaki Director and Research Administrator, Office of Research, UW Tacoma Sara T. Kover Associate Professor, Speech and Hearing Sciences; Chair, Faculty Council for Research Rona L. Levy Professor and Associate Dean for Research, School of Social Work Rayne R. Lim Postdoctoral Representative, School of Medicine Ophthalmology: Chao Lab Lisa E. Manhart Professor and Associate Dean for Research, School of Public Health Lisa McDonald Policy Development Analyst, Office of Planning & Budgeting Daniel Pollack Professor and Divisional Dean, Natural Sciences, College of Arts & Sciences Tueng T. Shen Professor and Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Education, Medical Technology Innovation, School of Medicine John T. Slattery Vice Dean, Research and Graduate Education, School of Medicine Emma S. Spiro Associate Professor and Interim Associate Dean for Research, Information School Andy Stergachis Professor of Pharmacy & Global Health, Associate Dean, School of Pharmacy Allison R. Webel Professor and Associate Dean for Research, School of Nursing Kevin L. Williams Executive Director of the Applied Physics Laboratory Jihui Yang Vice Dean, College of Engineering Home Advisory Boards Research Advisory Board University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA