Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print 2022 Commencement Salutatio by Frances Mangina (Latin and English) The Office of Communications May 24, 2022, 4:16 p.m. Salutatorian Frances Mangina speaking at the Class of 2022 Commencement ceremony on May 24, 2022. Photo by Charles Sykes, Associated Press Images for Princeton University The salutatory address is the University’s oldest student honor and is traditionally given in Latin. In the days when the entire Commencement ceremony was conducted in Latin, the salutatio was a formal, serious address. It has evolved to become a farewell to Princeton campus life with humorous tributes and recollections. --As prepared-- Latin text: Habita in Comitiis Academicis Princetoniae ante diem IX Kal. Iu. Anno MMXXII Anno Academiae CCLXXV Discipulos recano, qui primi Princetoniaeque Caesariaeque Novae crocea a bulla patriam atque litora nota domum, fato profugi, venerunt, multum illi caelumque viasque peragrati vi aestus mortiferi morbi saevique Coronae donec vaccinationem physici reperirent terrarumque vacationem inferrent inde orbi. Congregemus unum nos in locum, dilectissimi sodales, etiamnunc a crudeli viro disclusi sed non iam interclusi. Canamus uniter res in umbra turrium hedera obsitarum gestas, quas aulae priscae et hunc in annum et pluris resonent. Bis ignes cumulavimus altaribus festos, ut victoriam nostram de harpasti americani lusoribus vestitu coccineis et caeruleis celebraremus. Per trium semestrium intervallum vitra electrica tuiti sumus sicut Specularii, ut rerum naturam quaereremus. Itinera numero carentia asperos per ventos in pavimentis imbribus inundatis fecimus cenulam a cibo sero aut Wawa desiderantes. Quorum memores postea multis cum lacrimis cibum frigidum de vasibus conchae similibus edimus. Discessus noster ab illo campo nobis eripuit non solum societatem amicorum nostrorum sed etiam delectationem in vere, cuius adventu flores horti claro prospectu emergunt et nova proles vulpis sciurique ludit per herbas tonsas campi pillamallei. Hodie autem vere amoeno Princetoniae frui possumus. Nunc decet viridi academicum caput impedire hedera aut flore croceo. Nunc decet cum amicis diem carpere. Gaudeamus igitur, sodales, recordatione dulci, laetitiis praesentibus, et rerum aenigmate futurarum. Sic paene fatus est poeta sapiens: O fortes peioraque passi mecum saepe tigres, nunc vino pellite curas; cras ingens iterabimus aequor. English text: Given in the Academic Assembly of Princeton University on the 24th of May In the year 2022 In the 275th Year of the University I sing of students, who, exiled by fate, first came homeward to their own lands and familiar shores from the orange bubble of Princeton, New Jersey. They traversed the sky and roads far and wide due to the seething power of the deadly disease, the remorseless coronavirus, until scientists could discover a vaccine and spread immunity across the globe. Let us gather together in one place, dearest comrades, still distanced by the cruel virus, but no longer isolated. Let us sing together of deeds performed in the shadow of ivy-covered towers, so that they may echo in these ancient halls for this year and many more. Twice we have heaped the altars with festal fires to celebrate our victory over the football players clad in crimson and blue. For three semesters we stared at electric screens, just like crystal gazers, to investigate the nature of the world. We have taken innumerable journeys through harsh winds on rain-flooded pavements because we longed for a snack from late meal or the Wa. Later, remembering these things, we wept many a tear as we ate cold food from clamshell containers. Our departure from this campus not only deprived us of the fellowship of our friends but also of the enjoyment of spring, at whose arrival the flowers in Prospect Gardens emerge and the new offspring of the fox and the squirrel play on the close-cropped grass of the golf course. Today, however, we can delight in Princeton’s lovely spring. Now it is fitting to crown our scholarly heads with green ivy or with orange flowers. Now it is fitting to seize the day with our friends. Companions, let us therefore rejoice in sweet recollection, present joys, and the mystery of things to come. As a wise poet has said, more or less: O strong tigers who, by my side, have often suffered worse things than these, now dispel your cares with wine: tomorrow we will traverse the immense deep. Commencement 2022 View All News Connect with #Princeton22 Instagram Facebook Twitter GIPHY YouTube LinkedIn 2022 Commencement website After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers University News: Read more ‘The value of persistence’: Princeton Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement University News: Read more 2022 Valedictory remarks by Natalia Orlovsky University News: Read more Class of 2022 Commencement Address by President Eisgruber — 'The Value of Persistence' University News: Read more Four faculty members recognized for outstanding teaching Award: Read more Princeton awards five honorary degrees Award: Read more Four outstanding N.J. secondary school teachers honored at Princeton Commencement Award: Read more At Hooding, a ritual celebration of extraordinary scholarly accomplishment University News: Read more Dr. Fauci to Princeton seniors on Class Day: ‘It is our collective responsibility not to shrug our shoulders’ or to accept ‘the normalization of untruths’ University News: Read more Students honored for leadership and service at 2022 Class Day Award: Read more Princeton University Class of 2022 Class Day remarks by Dr. Anthony S. Fauci University News: Read more Baccalaurate speaker Wendy Kopp ’89: The path to happiness is to align our lives with our values University News: Read more 2022 Princeton Baccalaureate address by Wendy Kopp University News: Read more Reunited: Princeton alumni return to campus for the first in-person Reunions since the start of the pandemic University News: Read more Phi Beta Kappa chapter honors Alexander Davis, Casey Lew-Williams with teaching awards Award: Read more Watch: Princeton's Class of 2022 Commencement ceremony Tuesday, May 24 University News: Read more Alumni returning for Reunions 2022 this Thursday through Sunday Campus Life: Read more Graduate students honored for excellence in teaching Award: Read more Four faculty members honored for excellence in mentoring graduate students Award: Read more Commencement events for Class of 2022 and on-campus Commencement details for Class of 2020 University News: Read more Natalia Orlovsky named Princeton valedictorian, Frances Mangina selected as salutatorian Award: Read more Dr. Anthony Fauci will speak at Princeton’s 2022 Class Day University News: Read more Teach For All co-founder and CEO Wendy Kopp named Baccalaureate speaker University News: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice