Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Undergraduate Studies What is Geology? Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences What is Geology? What is Geology? It is a science that is still young enough to have exciting, unanswered questions, but mature enough to make use of all the sophistication and rigor that one can bring to bear! Geological phenomena affect our daily lives, as well as the future of our planet. Fundamental knowledge in the Earth and planetary sciences has a direct bearing on matters of urgent interest to the public, to policy makers, and to other scientists. The threats of a major earthquake in California, a volcanic eruption in the northwestern U.S., or an asteroid impact are ever present. A naturally fluctuating climate is being modified by human activities in ways that we don’t understand with consequences that we cannot predict. Field observations and field trips play an important part of the undergraduate experience. These can occur during classroom time or labs, and are enhanced greatly through departmental or Geo Club field trips. Every effort is made to create the best opportunities for interested undergrads to experience hands-on lab time. Theoretical modeling is another powerful tool students and faculty alike use to analyse geological materials to make predictions or extrapolate theories about past geologic events. People Undergraduate Studies What is Geology? Concentrations GeoDUG Advisors Research Collaborative Research Independent Research Projects and Honors Educational Opportunities The Sarah LaMendola Award Borrow Geo DVDs Graduate Studies Courses Research Lectures and Colloquia Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Outreach Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with DEEPS at Brown University Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Brown University Box 1846 324 Brook Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3339 [email protected] Calendar Jun 23 9:00am Dissertation Defense: Sarah McGrath Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Department Resources Computing Guide