Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs UofM Global - All Online Graduate Certificate Programs Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate DegreesBusinessComputingHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesSocial Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate DegreesArtsBusinessComputingEducationEngineeringHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesLiberal StudiesSocial Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us All Online Graduate Certificate Programs Arts Graduate Certificate in Arts Entrepreneurship The Arts Entrepreneurship Graduate Certificate is an available program for prospective businessmen and women with existing backgrounds in creative fields. The certificate will aim for an overarching understanding of and work within entrepreneurship, including the history, social impact, and ethics of this type of work; learning how to articulate a vision for a particular product or idea; developing a business model alongside knowledge of leadership and management development; learning how to best frame, market, and promote a product or idea; and culminating in developing a pitch deck and provide a formal pitch of the idea at the Arts Entrepreneurship Annual Conference to potential investors and other entrepreneurs. Learn More Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate in Museum Studies Museums anchor communities, celebrate cultures, preserve heritage, stimulate discovery, embrace diversity, innovate learning, and engage people with each other and important issues of our time. The online Graduate Certificate program prepares students who are currently enrolled in or have completed master's or doctoral degree programs to enter the museum professions. Since its start in 2003, the Graduate Certificate in Museum Studies has prepared students for positions in museum administration, education, collection management, registration, exhibition development, curation, and public programs. Learn More Business Professional Real Estate Program The Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate offers an undergraduate track in financial planning that meets the specific criteria for students who wish to fulfill the education component for obtaining CFP® certification. This financial planning education program is registered with the Certified Financial Planning Board of Standards Inc. to verify that the student has completed coursework covering all 72 topics tested on the CFP® Certification Exam. Learn More Graduate Certificate in General Business The Graduate Certificate in General Business is targeted at students with a bachelor’s degree in a non-business field who wish to transition into management fields or into an MBA program. Performance in these courses, which are part of the MBA core, will be used for screening potential MBA applicants without a business background. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Business Project Management Graduate certificate program in Business Project Management prepares individuals for project management teamwork and to be project managers with specific emphasis on the integration of information systems and business processes. Learn More Computing Graduate Certificate in Data Science Earn training in the important aspects of the rapidly emerging area of Data Science. With large volumes of data being generated every day from multiple sources (including business data, biomedical data, educational data, science data, engineering data, and personal data), the importance of systematic and rigorous approaches to understanding and putting these large volumes of data to good use is now well recognized. Graduates of this program are required to take two core courses in data science, and can choose two other elective courses. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity & Information Assurance Earn a Cybersecurity & Information Assurance Graduate Certificate with only four courses. Courses may also be used toward a graduate degree. Now available fully online! Learn More Education Graduate Certificate in Autism Studies The University of Memphis is excited to offer an online Autism Certificate Program. The Autism Certificate Program is designed to equip parents, teachers, and professionals with the tools necessary to successfully work with children with autism and deal with the unique challenges and rewards associated with the disorder. Learn More Graduate Certificate in College and Career Counseling The University of Memphis' certification in college and career counseling as an online and field based post-degree program designed to address contemporary issues related to career and college counseling in schools. Learn More Graduate Certificate - Educational Leadership This online 18-hour (six classes) graduate certificate is designed for individuals who already possess a master's degree, work in a K-12 setting and are seeking alternate route certification to become a school principal/school leader. This certificate mirrors the MS in Leadership and Policy Studies School Administration and Supervision concentration. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Higher Education Instruction This online 18-hour (six classes) graduate certificate is designed for individuals already teaching in higher education settings or working on an advanced degree who would like to hone their college classroom teaching skills. Graduates can work at community colleges, private and public colleges/universities, for-profit agencies and adult learning centers. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Instructional Design and Technology Our graduate-level certificate program is completely online and offers two tracks: (1) Educational Technology and (2) Design and Development. Each track is comprised of four classes. The courses may be completed as part of a degree program in IDT or other program with your advisor's approval. Transform your career! Learn More Graduate Certificate in Literacy, Leadership, and Coaching Literacy Education is concerned with the promotion of literacy, with specific emphasis on reading, writing, listening and speaking. No matter what your career goals, local or global, we have a program to meet your professional needs. Learn More Graduate Certificate - School Library Information Specialist The program of study for School Library Information Specialist (SLIS) is a graduate program offered 100% online, and the courses must be part of enrollment towards a Master's degree if a student has not already completed an M.S. or M.A. degree. It is also offered as Graduate Certificate for those who have already earned a Master's degree (or higher). Learn More Special Education Comprehensive Certificate The Special Education Comprehensive Certificate is designed for individuals seeking certification in Comprehensive Special Education or wanting to enhance their knowledge of Low Incidence Disabilities. The program provides advanced coursework directed at foundational knowledge and evidence-based instructional practices for children with low incidence disabilities (e.g., intellectual disorders, ASD, multiple disabilities). This non-degree-seeking program can lead to an advanced degree, or enhance skills for those who work in fields requiring an ability to work with children with low incidence disabilities. Learn More Engineering Graduate Certificate in Applied Lean Leadership For students with a bachelor's degree who are currently working full-time in a production or service industry, and are specifically interested in learning about lean principles and practices. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Electrical and Computer Engineering - Imaging and Signal Processing Help develop more sustainable sources of energy and more efficient devices that maintain our world and extend our natural resources. Learn More Health Family Nurse Practitioner Post-Masters Certificate The Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) Certificate program provides a formal program of study for master’s-prepared nurses interested in taking the national certification exam to practice as a Family Nurse Practitioner. Learn More Nursing Education Post-Masters Certificate The Nursing Education Certificate program provides a formal program of study for masters prepared nurses interested in obtaining a credential allowing them to teach in in various educational settings. Learn More Certificate in Health Systems Leadership The Health Systems Leadership graduate certificate provides students with training in areas critical to 21st century healthcare, public health, and community health leadership. Learn More Certificate in Population Health SPH is pleased to offer a fully online graduate certificate in Population Health. For public health practitioners and other healthcare leaders who are interested in improving health outcomes in the community. Can be completed in two semesters. Learn More Certificate in Sport Nutrition and Dietary Supplementation The graduate certificate in Sport Nutrition and Dietary Supplementation is particularly useful for registered dietitians/nutritionists, strength and conditioning coaches, personal trainers, and healthcare providers (e.g., nurses, pharmacists) who may receive questions from athletes and/or patients specific to the topics of sport nutrition and dietary supplementation. The certificate consists of three required courses and one elective. All courses are delivered online and can be completed in any sequence. Learn More Humanities Graduate Certificate in Teaching English as a Second/Foreign Language You can now earn a Certificate in Teaching English as a Second/Foreign Language completely online with the University of Memphis' eCampus. Students in the Teaching ESL/EFL concentration take 5 classes for the Certificate that help them develop expertise in second language acquisition, cross-cultural issues, language policy and planning, and second/foreign language instruction. Learn More Professional and Liberal Studies Graduate Certificate in Aviation Human Factors Aviation Human Factors is used to optimize the fit between people and the systems in which they work in order to improve aviation safety and performance. Knowledge gained in this certificate can also be applied to safety investigation activities. Learn More Sciences Graduate Certificate in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Our certificate in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) will develop your geospatial technology skills, while expanding your career opportunities. We combine research with extensive hands-on experience using the latest online GIS learning techniques, leveraging the best GIS software, and working with spatial data in a real-world context. Learn More Social Science Graduate Certificate in Local Government Management The Department of Public and Nonprofit Administration offers the Graduate Certificate in Local Government Management to mayors, managers, department heads, supervisors and other local government professionals. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership Every employee and volunteer in a nonprofit organization plays a role in meeting the philanthropic goals and charitable purposes of the organization. The Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership is designed to meet the needs of these employees and volunteers looking for advanced study in the theory and practice of nonprofit administration. Learn More Graduate Certificate in School Social Work The Graduate Certificate in School Social Work Prepares Students for School Social Work Licensure. Students must be either concurrently enrolled from a Master of Social Work program or have completed a Master of Social Work degree. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Entrepreneurial Journalism From starting a business to engaging audiences through social media, learn the media skills to succeed while surrounded by Memphis’ abundant entrepreneurship community. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Multimedia Storytelling Update skills in multimedia with a focus on telling stories through various platforms including photography, audio, video and data visualization. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Social Media Analysis and Strategy Learn tools in audience analysis and segmentation, analytics and evaluation and community engagement to build and maintain a social media presence for brands and organizations. Earn certifications in various analytic software and programs. Learn More APPLY NOW Ready to apply to a UofM Global Program? Visit the Admissions Page to submit your application. Learn More >> About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/14/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.