Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global About UofM Global About UofM Global About UofM Global Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us UofM Global brings learning to you. You have a busy life. Work, family, travel. We get it—life happens. But life shouldn't get in the way of your education. That's where UofM Global comes in. Our online courses provide flexibility so you can work through the same quality coursework as on-ground students anytime, anywhere, with the backing of a nationally ranked university. We bring the classroom to you. Since 1995, UofM Global has been supporting students as they balance careers, budgets, families, friends, health and safety during their educational journey. Our programs are developed by UofM faculty for UofM students. You even have an advisor ready to help you every step of the way, just like you would on campus. Plus, you gain access to all the resources of a Tier II research university. Your diploma and transcripts look exactly the same as those earned by on-campus students, because your degree and accumulated knowledge is exactly the same. This allows you to earn a regionally accredited degree from a nationally ranked university wherever you are in the world! If you've got high-speed Internet, you can earn a degree from anywhere. It's that simple. With so many options available, selecting a quality online program that fits your needs is critical to your academic and career pursuits. The 4,500 students currently completing their degrees fully online through UofM Global have found that we put our 25 years of experience to good use: building a solid foundation of high caliber online academic programs and student success services. Along the way we’ve made every effort to distinguish ourselves from the competition and have been fortunate to be recognized as a leader in online education. While we’ve had our share of accomplishments, our greatest source of pride is our personalized approach to fulfilling the needs and building trust with each applicant. What makes UofM Global different? During our 25 years as online learning pioneers, we’ve been: Expanding access to quality online programming globally to thousands of students Building 100+ accredited academic programs using a rigorous development process to ensure flexible, supportive, and engaging learning experiences Collaborating with our corporate community to produce innovative, customizable partnership programs Ranked Online Degrees. Through our commitment to excellence, we’ve earned: National rankings for 30+ academic programs from U.S. News and World Report among others, including Top Ten for best overall value The #1 ranking for online education in Tennessee The 2020 Chief Learning Officer “Learning in Practice” Gold award in honor of our flagship corporate partner program See all rankings > Our Commitment to Your Success. From admission to graduation, we are invested in you. UofM Global students have access to a variety of services and support, including: A UofM Global team dedicated to streamlining the admission experience We know not every educational history is the same, so our team provides dedicated, personalized support to make sure you're on the right path from enrollment to completion. Access to the university’s library, career services, 24/7 tutoring, counseling services, technology support and more Explore all services > Credentialed, experienced online faculty delivering the same content and course success rates as similar on-campus offerings This allows you to earn a regionally accredited degree from a nationally ranked university from anywhere in the world! A Quality Education at an Affordable Cost. Sensitive to the escalating costs of higher education, we’ve had no tuition increase in 7 years and are committed to: No additional online fees Maximizing the use of transfer credits towards degree completion Providing cutting-edge cost reduction opportunities, including credit for college-level work-based learning The Support of a Top, Accredited University. The University of Memphis was founded in 1912 and is home to more than 22,000 students from across the globe. It is currently a Carnegie R1 research university and is listed as a top tier institution by U.S. News & World Report. Pride + Joy. From football to hoops to other Division I sports, our Tigers bring students, alumni and the community together. Do you live outside of Memphis? Catch the 2019 American Athletic Conference Championship Tiger Football team on the road at a game near you, or watch our Men's Tiger Basketball team play under the guiadance of beloved headcoach Penny Hardaway on a national network. Visit gotigersgo.com to learn more about all of our teams. Memphis Request Information <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.