Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Hispanic Serving Institution Menu Search TTU Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Office of Institutional Diversity HSI Grant Opportunities HSI Grant FAQs Is TTU a Hispanic-Serving Institution? As of September 25, 2017, the 20th Class Day of the Fall 2017 semester, Texas Tech University reported to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) an enrollment of undergraduate full-time equivalent (FTE) students that is 27.8% Hispanic students. Can I apply to HSI grant opportunities at the Department of Education? No. Although we meet the enrollment criteria to be classified as an HSI, the Department of Education bases grant eligibility on IPEDS data, which lags two years behind. What is IPEDS? IPEDS is the Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System. It is a system of interrelated surveys conducted annually by the U.S. Department of Education's National Center for Education Statistics (NCES). IPEDS gathers information from every college, university, and technical and vocational institution that participates in the federal student financial aid programs. The Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, requires that institutions that participate in federal student aid programs report data on enrollments, program completions, graduation rates, faculty and staff, finances, institutional prices, and student financial aid. Can I apply to HSI grant opportunities at other federal agencies? It depends on the program/program officer. Some programs require only proof of an enrollment of 25% Hispanic undergraduates, while other programs require institutions to be listed on the Department of Education's (ED) eligibility list. Generally, programs that require institutions to be on the ED eligibility list will have language that requires the institution to satisfy the HSI definition as specified in Section 502 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C 1101a). Some program officers, though their program states a requirement to be included on ED's eligibility list, will still allow TTU to submit an application and prove our enrollment eligibility for this school year but you must contact that program officer to get permission to submit. How do I know which opportunities are available? The TTU HSI Grants Subcommittee has a list of HSI grant opportunities posted on https://www.depts.ttu.edu/diversity/ HSI/grants/. Eligibility for each opportunity is identified within the list. If the grant opportunity you are interested in is not listed and you are unsure of TTU's eligibility, please contact the program officer for clarification and report your findings to the HSI Grants Subcommittee. What do I need to tell the program officer about TTU's Hispanic enrollment so that I can submit to an HSI grant opportunity? TTU has a Hispanic student enrollment of 27.8% as of Fall 2017. However, because IPEDS data lags two years behind, TTU will not be listed on the Department of Education's eligibility list until IPEDS publishes 2017-2018 school year data. Will TTU be allowed to apply for this grant opportunity with proof of Hispanic enrollment criteria alone? What information will I need to submit as proof of enrollment?Will TTU be allowed to apply for this grant opportunity with proof of Hispanic enrollment criteria alone? What information will I need to submit as proof of enrollment? Hispanic Undergraduate Enrollment Language for Grant Applications As of September 25, 2017, the 20th Class Day of the Fall 2017 semester, Texas Tech University reported to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) an enrollment of undergraduate full-time equivalent (FTE) students that is 27.8% Hispanic students. As a result, because Texas Tech University has met the Hispanic student population threshold for designation as a Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI), this grant application is eligible for and entitled to any and all favorable consideration and/or preferences allowed by law, policy, and the filing requirements of this grant program. Questions? Contact the Office of Research Development & Communications ord.vpr@ttu.edu Hispanic Serving Institution Like Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on FacebookLike Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Facebook Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitterFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitter Subscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTubeSubscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTube Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on InstagramFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Instagram Address P.O. Box 5024 Lubbock, Texas, 79409-5024; Admin Building, Suite 233 Phone 806-742-7025 Email diversity@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityOct 15, 2020 3:48 PM Hispanic Serving Institution About Hispanic Serving Institution Back About HSI Hispanic Serving Institution About HSI Back What is HSI? Glossary of Terms Programs & Initiatives Development, Resource & Professional Affiliations Hispanic Faculty at Texas Tech Data Hispanic Serving Institution Back Historical Enrollment Data Rankings The History of Achieving HSI status Hispanic Serving Institution The History of Achieving HSI status Back Achieving HSI Status HSI Timeline RAISE Committee Message from the President Message from the Provost Opportunities & Events Hispanic Serving Institution Back Students Hispanic Serving Institution Back Scholarships Resources Grants Hispanic Serving Institution Back Students Research/Outreach Frequently Asked Questions News & Events Hispanic Serving Institution Back Events News Releases Community Profiles Additional Resources Hispanic Serving Institution Back TTU Resources Hispanic Serving Institution Back DDEI website Harris Institute Latino Hispanic Faculty & Staff Association External Resources Hispanic Serving Institution External Resources Back Texas HSI Consortium DOE HSI website HACU Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index