Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of English Undergraduate Graduate People Internships News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Students How to Apply MA Writing and Rhetoric TESOL Applied Linguistics Literature Technical Communication MFA Creative WritingFAQ PhD Applied LinguisticsWriting, Rhetoric, and Technical CommunicationLiterary and Cultural Studies Certificate African American LiteratureTeaching English to Speakers of Other LanguagesWriting Studies Online Degree Programs Advising Financial Aid and Scholarships Graduate Courses Two-Year Template 2022-2024Graduate Course Descriptions Organizations UM English Graduate Organization Forms UofM Graduate Online FormsEnglish Teaching/Graduate Assistantship ApplicationGraduate Advising WorksheetGraduate Independent Study FormThesis Hour Registration and Prospectus FormDissertation Hour Registration Form Graduate Catalog Take Action Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of English Graduate Students M.A. in Professional Writing M.A. in Technical Communication The M.A. in Technical Communication prepares students for careers in editing, policy writing, and publication management. Students are taught to write for industry, government, technology, and the scientific disciplines. The M.A. in Technical Communication is also offered as a fully online degree. Technical Communication courses emphasize: Writing and editing to achieve specific purposes and address specific audiences, Producing different types of documents, including instructional manuals, reports, and proposals, Using writing as a tool for learning, Working collaboratively to solve problems, and Evaluating the findings of empirical research. Many courses incorporate technology to build students' skills in using multimedia applications, web pages, and other internet applications. Courses are often offered online or in the evening to accommodate working professionals. Students in the Technical Communication area are encouraged to do a one-semester internship for which they receive course credit. Graduates in Technical Communication have been in demand by local businesses, including Federal Express, AutoZone, and Brother Industries where they work as editors, as writers of policy and procedural manuals, and as managers of the publication process. Some of our graduates are currently pursuing Ph.D.s in Professional Writing at the University of Memphis and at other universities. For more information about the MA in Technical Communication program requirements, visit the Graduate Catalog Technical Communication Coordinator: Dr. Liz Lane 901.678.2651 etlane@memphis.edu Ready to write your own future? Apply Now > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/2/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.