Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Postdoc Resources To enhance your postdoctoral experience, we have included several helpful resources below. Click on the links to visit the corresponding page. New Postdocs This page details what you should plan to do before and upon your arrival at Clemson University. This list is just a guideline and may not include all information. Your Human Resource (HR) representative can help ensure you complete all requirements. Download the Clemson University Postdoctoral Handbook. Career Development This page includes links to career assessment tools that can assist you in better understanding your own abilities, determining career possibilities and setting professional development objectives. Networking Opportunities This page details opportunities on campus, within the community and beyond to network with colleagues through events, societies, conferences and volunteer opportunities. Membership information on the National Postdoctoral Association along with tips for improving and cultivating your professional relationships can be found here as well. Information about the City of Clemson Here you'll find links to the City's official website as well as surrounding cities. Links to information on housing, schools and child care, transportation and banking are included as well. Home Postdoc Resources New Postdocs Career Development Networking Opportunities About the City and Area Faculty and Staff Resources News and Events Contact Us Related Links Research at Clemson Colleges, Schools and Departments Research and Graduate Studies Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram