Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. PD for Groups and Teams of Educators Transformative learning across your organization. Contact Us Groups and/or teams will engage in a shared and powerful learning experience with their colleagues, while also connecting to and learning from a vibrant community of educators from across the US and around the world. Our programs are designed to provide frameworks, strategies, and tools which are research-backed and immediately applicable to your learning contexts. Whether joining us for an intensive institute, multi-week workshop, or semester-long program — your group will return with an action plan, better able to communicate and collaborate, act decisively, and support one another in bringing transformational changes to the organization. Programs for Group Participation Enroll a group of educators — large or small — into an open enrollment program for a shared learning experience. Most Professional Education programs allow for groups of educators to participate together. Through needs assessment and joint planning, HGSE Professional Education will partner with you to identify optimal learning pathways to support your ongoing efforts for improving opportunities and outcomes for stakeholders. As participants, your group of educators will be intentionally divided and distributed among the larger learning community to learn from and interact with other participants. Through this experience, your group has the opportunity to connect with a diverse community of practitioners in similar roles to consider alternative approaches to the work — while taking away common frameworks, theory, and shared language. Programs with Team-Based Learning Design Enroll a team of three to six participants from your education organization in a program specifically designed for team-based learning. These professional development experiences offer your team members an opportunity to work closely together on a specific problem of practice throughout the program. The content is designed specifically for such collaboration, whether that be through collective action planning, shared projects, or other activities. Your team will receive support from an expert facilitator. Organizations can send one or multiple teams to each program: Data Wise Certificate in Advanced Education Leadership Differentiated Instruction Team/Group Enrollment Process Most of our programs support team/group enrollment and offer discounted tuition for teams or groups of ten or more participants. To enroll a cohort in one program, we ask you to assign one person to serve as the coordinator to submit a team form that includes participants’ basic information (name, email, job title). For registration-based programs, a group invoice will be generated, which includes tuition for all participants in the group. For application-based programs, coordinators may typically choose between group and individual invoicing. For any questions regarding group enrollment, please submit a case, and a member of our Admissions Team will reach out to be of assistance. Explore Our Programs K-12 Programs Higher Education Programs Online Programs Explore All Programs Have Something Else in Mind? Learn more about other opportunities for your education organization to collaborate with Professional Education or custom learning experiences. Interested? Get in touch. In this section Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Find a Program Connect with Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Professional Education Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Connect With Us hgse_profed ProfessionalEducationHGSE LinkedIn “In high-poverty schools that were remote for more than half of 2021, the loss was about half of a school year’s wo… https://t.co/2F2Onsda68 May 19 After the intense pressures of COVID, more than a quarter of superintendents say they plan to resign. A veteran sup… https://t.co/Kr8r2NB2XP May 13 Learn more about HGSE Professional Education offerings Sign up to receive updates Professional Education Harvard Graduate School of Education 13 Appian Way, Longfellow Hall, Fifth Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 ppe@gse.harvard.edu Domestic: 800-545-1849 International: +01-617-496-9139 Fax: 617-496-8051 Connect with Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Find a Program Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice