Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About About Contact Leadership Organizational Chart 50th Anniversary 2021-22 Fact Sheet Assessment & Research Statistics and Policies Staff Toolbox College Access College Advising Corps Educational Talent Search (ETS) GEAR UP Achievers Math Science Upward Bound Multicultural Outreach & Recruitment RISE UP/SKY GEAR UP STEM Resources Undocumented Student Resources Upward Bound Washington MESA Student Services Academic Counseling Services College Assistance Migrant Program Early Identification Program Educational Opportunity Program Health Sciences Center Minority Students Program Instructional Center Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation McNair Program Mentor Power for Success OMA&D Study Abroad Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center STEM Resources Student Advisory Board TRIO Student Support Services Undocumented Student Resources UW Champions Program wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House Campus Diversity Diversity Portal OMA&D Diversity Programs Curriculum Transformation offered by CTL Disability Resources Diversity Blueprint Diversity Council Faculty Diversity Faculty & Staff Affinity Groups Greater Washington State Higher Education Recruitment Consortium National First-Generation College Celebration Native Life & Tribal Relations Staff Diversity UW Race & Equity Initiative wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House Alumni & Community Alumni and Community Resources OMA&D Alumni Profiles OMA&D Alumni Connect Form Friends of the Educational Opportunity Program Minority Community Advisory Committee UWAA Multicultural Alumni Partnership BlackPast.org Giving Opportunities News Articles Archive Campus Walker Photo Galleries E-newsletters Equity Focus Event Photo Galleries Student Blog Video Gallery Viewpoint Magazine Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Menu About About Contact Leadership Organizational Chart 50th Anniversary 2021-22 Fact Sheet Assessment & Research Statistics and Policies Staff Toolbox College Access College Advising Corps Educational Talent Search (ETS) GEAR UP Achievers Math Science Upward Bound Multicultural Outreach & Recruitment RISE UP/SKY GEAR UP STEM Resources Undocumented Student Resources Upward Bound Washington MESA Student Services Academic Counseling Services College Assistance Migrant Program Early Identification Program Educational Opportunity Program Health Sciences Center Minority Students Program Instructional Center Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation McNair Program Mentor Power for Success OMA&D Study Abroad Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center STEM Resources Student Advisory Board TRIO Student Support Services Undocumented Student Resources UW Champions Program wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House Campus Diversity Diversity Portal OMA&D Diversity Programs Curriculum Transformation offered by CTL Disability Resources Diversity Blueprint Diversity Council Faculty Diversity Faculty & Staff Affinity Groups Greater Washington State Higher Education Recruitment Consortium National First-Generation College Celebration Native Life & Tribal Relations Staff Diversity UW Race & Equity Initiative wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House Alumni & Community Alumni and Community Resources OMA&D Alumni Profiles OMA&D Alumni Connect Form Friends of the Educational Opportunity Program Minority Community Advisory Committee UWAA Multicultural Alumni Partnership BlackPast.org Giving Opportunities News Articles Archive Campus Walker Photo Galleries E-newsletters Equity Focus Event Photo Galleries Student Blog Video Gallery Viewpoint Magazine Home Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity DACA Frequently Asked Questions DACA Frequently Asked Questions Close Menu Home DACA Frequently Asked Questions DACA Renewals Funding for DACA Renewals DACA Validity & Applications Employment, Husky Card, Driver’s License Health Care Access to Higher Education Student Financial Aid Finances Taxes & Legal Resources DACA FAQ DOWNLOAD ENTIRE PDF OTHER CAMPUS RESOURCES Leadership Without Borders UW Counseling Center Safe Campus Financial Aid Individual counseling (or call 206-543-1240 for appointment) Crisis mental health services Guidance on compliance with information requests This web site and accompanying PDF provide members of our campus community with information on the rescission of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in the United States. Every attempt has been made to have accurate and up-to-date information. However, the information in this FAQ is not legal advice. Every person’s situation is different. We want to encourage those directly impacted by the decision to consult with a legal professional for additional information on legal options. University of Washington Commitment to DACA and Undocumented Students The university and its leadership across our three campuses remain steadfastly committed to the educational success of DACA enrollees and undocumented students. This commitment was articulated by President Ana Mari Cauce on Sept. 5, 2017 in a message to the community and was echoed by statements from the Vice President for Minority Affairs & Diversity, and the leadership of UW Bothell and UW Tacoma. President Cauce reaffirmed this commitment in a blog post on March 5, 2018 Frequently Asked Questions on DACA Termination – Update as of March 29, 2018 – Renewals are now being accepted I thought DACA was rescinded? What happened in court? On January 9, 2018, a federal judge in Northern California ordered the U.S. government to temporarily resume accepting DACA renewal applications for anyone who has ever been granted DACA. This court order temporarily blocks the U.S. government’s decision to terminate the DACA program, which happened on September 5, 2017. The order applies nationwide. On February 13, 2018, another federal judge in New York made a similar order that also required the U.S. government to temporarily continue accepting DACA renewal applications. On February 26, 2018 the Supreme Court denied the U.S. government’s request to make a decision on the legality of the first temporary order allowing DACA renewals to continue. This means that the U.S. government will continue accepting and processing DACA renewal applications until a court decides to lift the injunction in either the California or New York lawsuits. On March 5, 2018, another federal judge in Maryland ruled that the Trump Administration has the authority to rescind DACA. However, the two injunctions from the California and New York cases remain in effect nationwide despite this Maryland decision. This means that, as of this writing, the Maryland decision should not affect the ability to apply for DACA renewal. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals granted the government’s request to speed up parts of the hearing process for the California DACA case and the hearing is scheduled for May 15, 2018. It is not clear how long after this oral argument a decision will be made about whether or not DACA Renewals will continue to be accepted. Even if there is a decision in May that stops DACA Renewals from being accepted, the nationwide injunction in the New York case should stay in effect and allow USCIS to continue accepting Renewals. Although USCIS recommends that recipients mail their applications during the 120-150 days before their expiration date, they will accept applications outside of that timeframe. Be mindful however, that this would result in an overlap between your current DACA and renewal. For example, if your DACA expires in September 2018, and you receive your renewal in May 2018, your DACA would expire in May 2020, not September 2018. Even if there is an overlap, this does however, grant deferred action for two more years. Information on renewals is available here. Please also see the latest guidance from USCIS. The following answers are meant to explain the status of DACA and how it affects various aspects of your life. DACA Renewals – Updated March 29, 2018 Funding for DACA Renewals – Updated March 29, 2018 DACA Validity and Applications – Updated March 29, 2018 Employment Driver’s License Health Care Access to Higher Education Student Financial Aid Finances Taxes Legal Resources We will be updating this FAQ as we learn more about these changes. We encourage you to refer back to this document periodically to have the most up-to-date information Home DACA Frequently Asked Questions DACA Renewals Funding for DACA Renewals DACA Validity & Applications Employment, Husky Card, Driver’s License Health Care Access to Higher Education Student Financial Aid Finances Taxes & Legal Resources University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA