Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Ideas Lab Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA is the space in New York City and in the world where ideas and impact meet. Engaging scholars, entrepreneurs, and technology, the initiative explores avenues to shape policy in the public and private sector. You are here Home Ideas Lab HOME ABOUT CURRICULUM Working Papers Meet Us EVENTS SIPA occupies an increasingly interesting place at the intersection of digital technology, innovation, and public policy,” said SIPA Dean Merit E. Janow. “By adding this invaluable support from the Nasdaq Educational Foundation to the extensive resources of Columbia University, we will enhance the School’s ability to collaborate with scholars across the University and other experts to produce important new research, thought leadership, and curricular innovation on the study of entrepreneurship and the policy that supports it. As a global provider of capital markets services, it is our responsibility to educate future leaders,” said Joan Conley, senior vice president and corporate secretary at Nasdaq and managing director of the Nasdaq Educational Foundation. “We are proud to support Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs as they continue to grow and enhance their programs across public policy, technology, innovation and entrepreneurship. Highlights Take a look at a recently published blog post by our fellow John Battelle. In the past we have featured: Jared Cohen Ronaldo Lemos Sidewalk Labs Steve Case Videos Data and Development: How Data Governance is Reshaping Development and International Relations Video of Data and Development: How Data Governance is Reshaping Development and International Relations Dean Merit E. Janow: The Changing Profile of Entrepreneurship Video of Dean Merit E. Janow: The Changing Profile of Entrepreneurship Dean Merit E. Janow: The Changing Profile of Entrepreneurship Steve Case: Leveling the Playing Field Video of Steve Case: Leveling the Playing Field Steve Case: Leveling the Playing Field Governance in the Age of Digital Transformation Video of Governance in the Age of Digital Transformation Governance in the Age of Digital Transformation SIPA Challenge CVC Finalists Video of SIPA Challenge CVC Finalists 2017 Dean's Challenge Finalists View more videos Related News steve case et al 9-12.jpg Dean Merit E. Janow, investor Steve Case, and former U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew discussed strategies to support tech entrepreneurship over a wider geographic area. Read more Alumni Global Social Entrepreneurs Michal-Alter.jpg SIPA Alumni Changing the World…. One Start-Up Venture At a Time Read Profiles Share This Alumni Spotlight The faculty have a lot of experience in academia, but also in policy. And the students and alumni come from all corners of the world. Santiago Peña MPA-EPM 03 Minister of Finance Central Bank of Paraguay Full Profile Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216