Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Communication & Film About Graduate Undergraduate People Alumni Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Graduate Students Admissions Core Requirements in Communication Specialty Areas PhD Program MA Program OverviewFilm & Video ProductionCommunication Studies Graduate Certificate in Health Communication Course Offerings Assistantships & Awards Facilities & Equipment Living in Memphis Policies & Documents FAQS Take Action Get Started in the COMM Major Apply to COMM Graduate Programs Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Communication & Film Graduate Assistantships and Awards Assistantships and Awards The most exceptional graduate students in the Department often serve as Graduate Assistants (GAs). Applicants in search of an assistantship with the Department make their case as part of the online Departmental Application. As GAs, students enrich their scholarly and professional training through teaching basic and advanced undergraduate courses (usually two per term, and usually COMM 2381: Oral Communication), supporting faculty research and creative activity, and service to the Department and University more broadly. COMM Graduate Assistantships fund study in the Fall and Spring. They feature a waiver of the student's tuition and fees as well as a monetary stipend. For Doctoral students, providing a satisfactory progress in the program, the assistantship is renewable for up to four (4) years. At this time, we mainly offer GAs for PhD students. While we might, on occasion, offer an assistantship for an exceptional MA student, those are not guaranteed. At MA level, we are most likely to rely on tuition scholarships (one time tuition assistance) or a student-worker contract, where a student is paid an hourly wage to perform tasks for the department. For Master's students, assistantships are renewable for up to two (2) years; for Doctoral students, the period can be up to four (4) years. If you are granted an assistantship, and you do not have 18 hours of coursework in Communication, you will be assigned a research assistantship for your first year in the program. After that, GAs start with teaching two (2) sections of COMM 2381 during the fall and spring semesters. Doctoral level GAs typically teach two (2) sections of COMM 2381 per semester throughout their assistantship, though there are sometimes research assistant assignments, as well as assignments to advanced undergraduate courses. GA assignments are determined by the Director of Graduate Studies, the Chair, and the Undergraduate Coordinator. Doctoral students with at least three (3) semesters of experience teaching COMM 2381: Oral Communication can apply to for a Graduate Assistantship with the University's Center for Communication and Writing. The Graduate School also offers a range of Doctoral and Master's assistantships and fellowships, as well as help finding academic and nonacademic units at the University of Memphis who are in need of GAs. GA renewals in any case are not automatic, and are always subject to yearly review. In addition to their regular responsibilities, GAs are required to maintain satisfactory progress each term, submit a teaching portfolio each year, attend all Departmental colloquia, and adhere to the University's Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities. Travel Funding For GAs, the department offers a guaranteed $1000 in conference funding. Financial support for student travel to present at academic conferences is offered both by the University's Graduate Student Association and by the Department of Communication itself. Awards The Department recognizes its top students at the end of each year with awards for excellence in teaching, research and filmmaking. Each carries a cash prize. The Graduate School also offers annual awards for research and teaching. For forms and rules tied to assistantships, travel funding, and awards, click here. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/27/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.