Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE HUMAN BIOLOGY CONJOINT (MEDICINE) Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 CONJ 401 Human Anatomy and Physiology (4) Anna Melby Structure and function of the human body with laboratory work in gross anatomy, histology, and physiology. Primarily for pharmacy doctoral students. Others by special permission of instructors. Prerequisite: BIOL 220; either CHEM 155 or CHEM 162. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 401 CONJ 402 Human Anatomy and Physiology (4) Anna Melby Structure and function of the human body with laboratory work in gross anatomy, histology, and physiology. Primarily for pharmacy doctoral students. Others by special permission of instructors. Prerequisite: CONJ 401. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 402 CONJ 403 Human Anatomy and Physiology (4) Anna Melby Structure and function of the human body with laboratory work in gross anatomy, histology, and physiology. Primarily for pharmacy doctoral students. Others by special permission of instructors. Prerequisite: CONJ 402. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 403 CONJ 475 Alcoholism: A Course for Medical Students and Students in the Allied Health Sciences (2) Kivlahan, Samson For medical students in the allied health sciences in any year that covers an introduction to the epidemiology, diagnostic strategies, natural history, physiologic effects, and treatment of alcohol-related disorders. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 475 CONJ 480 Neuroscience for Rehabilitation Professionals (5) Anderson, Mulligan, Slimp Structure and function of the central nervous system, emphasizing sensorimotor systems and higher integrative functions, coupled with clinical correlations. Required for occupational therapy, physical therapy, and prosthetic/orthotic students. Others by permission. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 480 CONJ 504 Topics of Molecular Medicine (1.5, max. 5) Focuses on an important topic in medicine and science. Lectures introduce clinical and basic science background, followed by a seminar/discussion with speakers. Prerequisite: Graduate standing and permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with MOLMED 504; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 504 CONJ 505 P-Pain Clinic Preceptorship (1, max. 12) One morning a week for a total of 30 hours per quarter spent observing patient care in either inpatient or outpatient settings at UW Medical Center; associated readings. Prerequisite: first- or second-year medical student standing. Coordinator: Pain Center. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 505 CONJ 510 ISCRM Research Updates and Stem Cell Club ([0/1]-, max. 12) Ruohola-Baker, Ware Presents ongoing research at the Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine. Includes diverse subject matter in regenerative medicine, with new, unpublished data, and opportunity to identify collaborations and contacts for discussion, and an understanding of the state of the art. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with BIOC 510. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 510 CONJ 511 Genomic Dissection (1) Marshall S. Horwitz Uses state of the art technology to sequence the genome of a cadaver. Explores the structure of the genome, as well as genetic variants responsible for human individualization and disease. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 511 CONJ 512 Scientific Speaking Seminar (1.5) Biggins, Peichel Teaches how to effectively give a scientific seminar about research. Offered: jointly with MCB 512; W. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 512 CONJ 513 Clinical Medical and Human Genetics (4) Byers Rotations through medical genetics clinics for graduate students enrolled in the molecular medicine pathway. Students review clinical data, identify the molecular basis of genetic disorders, and assess how scientific studies have changed the assessment and natural history of these conditions. Limit of four students per quarter. Offered: jointly with MOLMED 513; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 513 CONJ 515 Introduction to Team-Based Care in Rural and Underserved Settings (1) Toby Keys Provides opportunities for students in health professional programs to learn about inter-professional education, practice transformation, behavioral health integration, social determinants of health, cultural humility, and current emerging healthcare topics that concern rural and urban underserved communities. Addresses demographics, economics, community structure, culture, and professional/personal issues. Add code required. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 515 CONJ 516 What Every Physician Should Know about Oral Health (1) Lewis, Mouradian, Slayton Didactic elective for students interested in understanding oral health and its relationship to systemic health. Special interest to students planning careers in primary care, public health, or who are likely to practice in rural or underserved communities. Includes weekly seminars and clinical demonstrations. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 516 CONJ 518 Molecular Biology and Immunology of HIV and AIDS (1.5) James I Mullins Intended for a broad array of science and public health majors. Will cover history of AIDS pandemic, and methodology and current progress in AIDS pathogenesis, vaccine development and cure research. Prerequisite: BIOL 200; recommended: For basic background BIOL 180, 200, 302 (or MICROM 301) are recommended. Introduction to the biological problems can be derived from MICROM 445 or 450, IMMUN 441, 532, 537, and more advanced preparation on the topic from (GH 560, PABIO 551, 552). Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 518 CONJ 524 Structural Basis of Signal Transduction (1.5) Focuses on the structure-function relationship of key enzymes in signal transduction (protein/lipid kinases; phosphatases etc.) and the structural consequences of protein phophorylation. Teaches students to look into critical structural details using PC or Mac. Prerequisite: undergraduate course in biochemistry and basic cell biology, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Xu Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 524 CONJ 526 Introduction to Systems Biology and Quantitative Approaches to Biomedical Sciences (1.5) Aitchison Covers philosophy of systems biology, experimental design, and the linkages between discovery and hypothesis-driven science. Reviews quantitative systems biology tools for genomics, proteomics, modeling and data integration, and emerging technologies. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 526 CONJ 529 Cell Migration (1.5) Cooper, Moens Explores mechanisms of cell migration in vivo and in cell culture. Discusses the cell biology of different forms of cell migration, the extracellular cues that direct migration, and how these cues are integrated by the migrating cell. Offered: jointly with MCB 529; W. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 529 CONJ 530 Directing Stem Cells Toward Regenerative Medicine (3) H. Ruohola-Baker An introduction to the rapidly developing field of human embryonic stem cells in regenerative medicine crossing all medical disciplines including ethics. Requires a strong background in biological sciences. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 530 CONJ 531 Signaling Mechanisms in Excitable Cells (1.5) W. ZAGOTTA Mechanisms of cellular signaling, particularly in nerve and muscle. Electrical, chemical, and mechanical signaling in the cell that lead to processes such as electrical excitability, action potentials, and muscle contraction. Prerequisite: comprehensive undergraduate course in general biochemistry and molecular biology, or permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 531 CONJ 532 Signal Transduction from the Cell Membrane to the Nucleus (2) John D. Scott, Shao-En Ong, Rich Gardner Intracellular signaling pathways leading from cell membrane receptors to nucleus. Pathways activated by seven transmembrane receptors and G-proteins, insulin/PI3 kinase, nitric oxide and WNTs and mechanisms of signal termination. Cytokine/Jak/Stat signaling and role of subcellular localization in signal transduction. Prerequisite: basic knowledge of biochemistry. Offered: jointly with PHCOL 502; A. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 532 CONJ 533 The Dynamic Chromosome (1.5) The chromosome viewed as the ultimate organelle. How chromosomes are maintained and propagated. Epigenetic regulation of genes. Genetic, biochemical , and cytologic methods for understanding chromosome functions. Prerequisite: cell biology, biochemistry, and genetics. Instructors: Henikoff, Roth Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 533 CONJ 534 Selected Problems in Nervous System Development (1.5) Introduces students to current issues in developmental neurobiology. Topics include regionalization of the neuroectoderm, mechanisms of neurogenesis, axon patterning and plasticity, and cell death. Not intended to be comprehensive; examines the experimental basis for current views in the field of a few topical issues. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 534 CONJ 537 Mechanism of Transcriptional Regulations (1.5) Tsukiyama Biochemical mechanisms of gene transcription covering a broad range of transcriptional regulation, including mechanisms of transcriptional initiation, elongation, and termination. Regulation of transcription by chromatin. Includes a special lecture regarding regulation of transcription in cell growth and differentiation. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 537 CONJ 538 Genetic Instability and Cancer (1/1.5) Seminar focusing on molecular pathways that maintain genomic stability in all cells and that carry out programmed changes in genomic structure in the immune system. Special attention devoted to understanding how failure in these pathways leads to genomic instability and malignancy. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Maizels, Monnat View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 538 CONJ 539 Modern Approaches to Vaccines (1.5) Fuller Covers selected topics based on recent publications in viral and bacterial vaccine research. Emphasizes understanding the latest advanced and issues in vaccine discovery, mechanisms of action, and special topics in viral vaccines. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 539 CONJ 540 Basic Science of Urologic Complications (3) Introduction to the multidisciplinary nature of the most common urologic complications ranging from prostate cancer to erectile dysfunction. Covers epidemiology, clinical and surgical treatments, current dogmas and approaches/models in basic study of underlying disease mechanisms, and a journal review of each complication. Prerequisite: biological science course. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 540 CONJ 541 Molecular Biology of Cellular Processes (1.5) Translational control; cytoskeleton and molecular motors; protein targeting, sorting and secretion; apoptosis; regulation of cell function by extracellular matrix. Prerequisite: comprehensive undergraduate course in biochemistry and molecular biology or permission of instructor. Instructors: Bornstein Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 541 CONJ 542 Cell Biology of Development (3) C. Berg, D. Raible Molecular mechanisms of development with emphasis on cell biological processes. Prerequisite: comprehensive undergraduate courses in biology, molecular biology, or permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 542 CONJ 544 Protein Structure, Modification and Regulation (1.5) Overview of general principles of protein structure, including forces that contribute to folding and stabilization, followed by an extended coverage of the means by which protein structure and function are modified and regulated. Examples from recent developments in protein folding, processing, and allosteric regulation. Prerequisite: introductory biochemistry and cell biology. Instructors: Stoddard, Strong View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 544 CONJ 545 Molecular Interactions and Medicine (1.5) Verlinde Forces governing molecular interactions in biology; with a focus on medicine. Principles of computer modeling techniques in use for predicting the molecular behavior of proteins, ligands, and their complexes. In computro ligand discovery; drug design, and the understanding at the atomic level of some genetic diseases. Two computer lab sessions. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 545 CONJ 546 Survey of Technologies for Molecular Biology (1.5) Bumgarner Broad overview of modern technologies used in molecular biology with particular emphasis on DNA sequencing and gene expression. In addition to methods and applications for the technologies, examines the theoretical basis and underlying instrumentation through which these technologies are implemented. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 546 CONJ 547 Molecular Evolution of Viral-Host Interactions (1.5) Katze Interactions between viruses and the cells they infect, with special emphasis on evolutionary battle that occurs between the invading virus and its host. Examines new technologies being used to molecularly dissect virus-host interactions. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 547 CONJ 548 Modeling Proteins and Proteomes (1.5) Samudrala Hands-on experience for modeling protein structures, using the models to predict function, and applying the prediction methods to all proteins encoded by an organismal genome. Provides an overview of protein structure, how it mediates function, and its importance for understanding protein interaction networks. Technologies involved for protein structure modeling. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 548 CONJ 549 Microbial Population Biology (1.5) Principles of ecology and evolution as they apply to microorganisms. Prerequisite: advanced undergraduates with permission of instructor. Instructors: MIttler Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 549 CONJ 550 P-Clinical Infectious Diseases (3) Lecture series by faculty members from various departments, authorities in the field of clinically important infectious diseases. Lectures, reading assignments, and handouts emphasize epidemiology, clinical manifestations, laboratory findings, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention. Oriented for second-year medical students. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 550 CONJ 551 Immunity (1.5) Strong Provides an understanding of the central cellular and molecular players in the mammalian immune system at a level appropriate for the non-specializing graduate student. Selected topics include the molecular basis of B and T cell activation and effector functions and the mechanisms of innate immunity. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 551 CONJ 552 Metabolic Flexibility in Biology (1.5) Small molecules and the ways that chemistry of these molecules facilitates life under changing conditions. Includes systems from microbiology to human physiology to understand aspects of cancer, aging, and animation. Explores topics including bioenergetics/metabolic flux, adaptation, and allometric scaling. Prerequisite: undergraduate organic chemistry and biochemistry. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 552 CONJ 554 Fundamentals of Hypnosis (1) McCann, Schneeweiss Examines phenomena associated with hypnosis, as well as its safe use in clinical practice. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 554 CONJ 556 Drug Addiction: Mechanisms, Prevention, and Treatment (2) Chavkin Key advances, insights, methods, and challenges for our understanding of drug addiction from psychological, pharmacological, psychiatric, community prevention, legal, and neurodevelopmental perspectives. Enhances familiarity with the multidisciplinary approaches required to understand addiction as a disease. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 556 CONJ 557 Microbial Evolution and Ecology (2) Selected topics in microbial evolution including evolution of the main lines of descent, and bacterial and archaeal speciation and co-speciation, and evidence for early microbial life on Earth. Prerequisite: MICROM 412 or general microbiology background. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 557 CONJ 558 Fundamentals of Prokaryotic Biology (1.5) Harwood, Leigh Basic principles in prokaryotic cell structure, genomics, and metabolism. Introduction to prokaryotic physiology, bacterial pathogenesis, and microbial ecology. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 558 CONJ 562 Advanced Topics in Bacterial Physiology (1.5) Covers cutting edge research and concepts pertaining to the complexity of the bacterial cell with an emphasis on primary literature and discussion. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 562 CONJ 570 Introduction to the Clinical Management of Transgender Patients (1) Covers the steps and protocols providers need to know to provide culturally proficient care for trans-identified patients. Prior completion of FAMED 561 highly recommended. Prerequisite: current graduate health science student and permission of course coordinator. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 570 CONJ 571 Introduction to the Clinical Management of Patients who are Transgender (1) Covers the steps and protocols providers need to know to provide culturally proficient care for trans identified patients. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 571 CONJ 583 Molecular Targets in Cancer Therapy (1.5) Maizels, Monnat Examines how molecular targets for cancer therapies are discovered and validated. Covers disease mechanisms, need for new therapeutics, how small molecule and antibody therapeutics are identified and developed, and how preclinical studies are used to establish safety and efficacy. Offered: jointly with MOLMED 583; A. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 583 CONJ 585 Surgical Anatomy (1-3, max. 12) Guided dissection of selected regions, supplemented by conferences. Offered conjointly by the departments of Biological Structure and Surgery. Prerequisite: permission of department. Coordinator: Department of Biological Structure. Instructors: Graney View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 585 CONJ 598 P-Chronic Care Independent Study and Remediation (*, max. 8) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Chronic Care clerkship offered during the patient care phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Prerequisite: department permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 598 CONJ 605 P-Introduction to Palliative Care - Consultation (4) Introduction to palliative care in the consultation setting. Students are integrated into palliative care teams and participate in interdisciplinary rounds, patient meetings, and symptom assessment. Special focus on communication and assisting patients with serious illness and their families to make decisions regarding care. Prerequisite: Successful completion of required Medicine and/or Family Medicine Clerkships Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 605 CONJ 606 P-Advanced Palliative Care - Inpatient Hospice Track (8) Intensive four week experience in palliative care in the inpatient hospice setting. Students work in interdisciplinary teams to assess and manage symptoms for patients near the end of life under appropriate supervision. Prerequisite: Required Family Medicine and/or Internal Medicine Clerkship(s) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 606 CONJ 607 P-Advanced Palliative Care (8) Intensive four week experience in palliative care in inpatient and outpatient settings. Students work in interdisciplinary teams to treat and communicate with seriously ill patients and their families to make decisions regarding care. Includes exposure to hospice care. Prerequisite: Required Family Medicine and/or Internal Medicine Clerkship(s) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 607 CONJ 608 P-Introduction to Palliative Care, Consult Track - ANMC (4) Introduction to palliative care in the consultation setting in Anchorage, AK. Students are integrated into palliative care teams and participate in interdisciplinary rounds, patient meetings, and symptom assessment. Special focus on communication and assisting patients with serious illness and their families to make decisions regarding care. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 608 CONJ 609 P-Introduction to Palliative Care, Consult Track - Bellingham, WA (4) Introduction to palliative care in the consultation setting in Bellingham, WA. Students are integrated into palliative care teams and participate in interdisciplinary rounds, patient meetings, and symptom assessment. Special focus on communication and assisting patients with serious illness and their families to make decisions regarding care. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 609 CONJ 610 P-Introduction to Palliative Care, Consult Track - Olympia, WA (4) Introduction to palliative care in the consultation setting in Olympia, WA. Students are integrated into palliative care teams and participate in interdisciplinary rounds, patient meetings, and symptom assessment. Special focus on communication and assisting patients with serious illness and their families to make decisions regarding care. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 610 CONJ 611 P-Introduction to Palliative Care, Consult Track - Billings, MT (4) Introduction to palliative care in the consultation setting in Olympia, WA. Students are integrated into palliative care teams and participate in interdisciplinary rounds, patient meetings, and symptom assessment. Special focus on communication and assisting patients with serious illness and their families to make decisions regarding care. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 611 CONJ 612 P-Introduction to Palliative Care Consultation- Bozeman, MT (4) Introduction to palliative care in the consultation setting in Bozeman, MT. Students are integrated into palliative care teams and participate in interdisciplinary rounds, patient meetings, and symptom assessment. Special focus on communication and assisting patients with serious illness and their families to make decisions regarding care. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 612 CONJ 613 P-Introduction to Palliative Care Consultation- Boise, ID (4) Introduction to palliative care in the consultation setting in Boise, ID. Students are integrated into palliative care teams and participate in interdisciplinary rounds, patient meetings, and symptom assessment. Special focus on communication and assisting patients with serious illness and their families to make decisions regarding care. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 613 CONJ 614 P-Correction and Addiction Medicine - Gray's Harbor County, WA (4-8) Clinical elective primarily at Greys Harbor County Jail. Covers a variety of acute and chronic diseases common outpatient procedures in jail and addiction treatment settings. In-depth experience working with incarcerated and known addicted individuals. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 614 CONJ 615 P-Advanced Correction and Addiction Medicine - Gray's Harbor County, WA (8) Advanced clinical elective primarily at Greys Harbor County Jail. Covers variety of acute and chronic diseases common outpatient procedures in jail and addiction treatment settings. In-depth experience working with incarcerated and known addicted individuals. Prerequisite: Required Family Medicine and/or Internal Medicine Clerkship(s) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 615 CONJ 617 P-Subinternship in Neurocritical Care Medicine (8) As sub-interns on the Neurocritical Care Service, students learn about critical illness, focusing on neurosurgical critical illness. Through direct patient care responsibilities, students gain experience managing traumatic brain injury, acute spinal cord injury, acute cerebral hemorrhage, and other common critical-care issues. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 617 CONJ 618 P-Sleep Medicine (4) Exposure to sleep disorders including sleep apnea, narcolepsy, hypoventilation, parasomnias and circadian rhythm disorders. Students primarily see outpatients in the UW Medicine Sleep center at Harborview with various sleep faculty. Appropriate for students interested in internal medicine, family medicine, otolaryngology, neurology, psychiatry, anesthesiology and/or a career in sleep medicine. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 618 CONJ 619 Advanced Palliative Care (8) Intensive four week experience in palliative care in inpatient and outpatient settings. Students work in interdisciplinary teams to treat and communicate with seriously ill patients and their families to make decisions regarding care. Includes exposure to hospice care. Prerequisite: Completion of Family Medicine and/or Internal Medicine clerkship Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 619 CONJ 620 Opioid Use Disorder (8) An intensive experience in the clinical care of patients with opioid use disorder in both the inpatient and outpatient settings. Students will evaluate inpatients with opioid use disorder as part of the addiction medicine consult service at HMC, providing treatment recommendations and linkage to outpatient services. They will work with patients in outpatient settings including primary care-based treatment programs and opioid treatment programs Prerequisite: Successful completion of required Medicine and Psychiatry clerkships. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 620 CONJ 621 Advanced Palliative Care-Spokane (8) This APC clerkship is an intensive experience in palliative care. This is an inpatient palliative care experience; under supervision of board certified palliative care physicians, students will see inpatient consultations and provide follow-up inpatient care. The palliative care team provides consults across disciplines in the hosptial including pediatric acute care and adult acute care (medical, oncology, surgical and intensive care). Prerequisite: Successful completion of the third year medicine and/or family medicine clerkships Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 621 CONJ 622 Advanced Palliative Care-Boise, ID (8) This APC clerkship is an intensive experience in palliative care. This advanced palliative care rotation is primarily inpatient focused, with approximately 80% of the student's time spent in direct patient care in the hospital setting. Students work in interdisciplinary teams to treat and communicate with seriously ill patients and their families to make decisions regarding care. Includes exposure to hospice care. Prerequisite: Successful completion of the third year medicine and/or family medicine clekrships. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 622 CONJ 623 Adult and Pediatric Hospital Medicine (8) Advanced combined rotation in adult and pediatric hospital medicine. Students work with teaching physicians on a busy inpatient service with the opportunity to evaluate and admit patients from the emergency department, attend deliveries, perform consultations and manage assigned inpatients, and may have some opportunity for additional exposure to specialty care and procedures if desired. Focuses on continuity of care where possible. Prerequisite: successful completion of Patient Care Phase clinical curriculum. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 623 CONJ 624 Hospice and Palliative Care Medicine-Bozeman, MT (8) Intensive experience in hospice and palliative care with an outpatient primary focus, but also some experience on an inpatient setting. Students work as an integral member of an hospice and palliative care team under the direction of an attending physician, communicating with patients and families and participating actively in the management of pain and other symptoms. Prerequisite: successful completion of the third year medicine and/or family medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 624 CONJ 625 Global Health Clinical Elective (*, max. 24) Provides a better understanding of the challenges of providing medical care in international resource-limited settings. Students spend a minimum of five weeks at a developing county medical center, with the goal of learning more about the local burden of disease and strategies for diagnosis and treatment. Prerequisite: fourth year medical students. Instructors: S. McClelland Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 625 CONJ 626 Global HIV Medicine Elective (10-20, max. 20) Chung Prepares health profession students for work in developing countries. Includes experience treating HIV-positive patients in resources-poor settings, analyzing the relationship between poverty and health, recognizing tropical diseases that are common in Sub-Saharan Africa or Southeast Asia, and understanding the epidemiology of HIV in Sub-Saharan Africa or Southeast Asia. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 626 CONJ 627 Intro to End of Life Home Care (4) Prerequisite: Successful completion of Foundation Years curriculum. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 627 CONJ 628 Advanced Palliative Care-Alaska (8) This APC clerkship is an intensive experience in palliative care. This is an inpatient palliative care experience; under supervision of board certified palliative care physicians, students will see inpatient consultations and provide follow-up inpatient care. The palliative care team provides consults across disciplines in the hosptial including pediatric acute care and adult acute care (medical, oncology, surgical and intensive care). Prerequisite: Successful completion of the third year medicine and/or family medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 628 CONJ 629 Clinical Pediatric Dermatology (8) This is a full-time rotation in Pediatric Dermatology at Seattle Children's Hospital, which is a referral hospital for all of the Pacific Northwest. Pediatric disorders such as eczema are seen commonly, unusual and complicated patients are also commonplace in these clinics. Inpatient consults are also a significant portion of this rotation. This is ideal for students with an interest in pediatrics, family medicine, or medical genetics. Prerequisite: Successful completion of required medicine and pediatrics clerkships. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 629 CONJ 630 P-Write Chronic Care Clerkship (8) Basic clinical clerkship for students enrolled in the WRITE Program. Prerequisite: approved by the WRITE committee. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 630 CONJ 631 Introduction to Hospice and Palliative Home Care (4) Students will become integrated into a home care team which practices both palliative and hospice care in patient's homes. The team consists of an attending physician, nurses, social workers, and spiritual counselors. Students will participate in symptom assessment and management, discussions of goals of care and will also experience spiritual assessment and grief counseling. Prerequisite: Successful completion of Foundations curriculum. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 631 CONJ 632 Introducation to Palliative Care-Consultation (4) The student will work with the interdisciplinary palliative care team, which sees patients in 2 distinct clinic settings; within Montana Cancer Center, providing palliative care to patients with cancer, and in a standalone palliative care clinic doing general consultations for patients with serious illness. Students work with inpatient palliative care consultation team actively managing patients along with primary teams at St. Patrick Hospital. Prerequisite: Successful completion of Foundations curriculum. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 632 CONJ 633 Intro to Palliative Care - South Puget Sound (4) Inpatient setting. Students work on a palliative care team under direction of an attending physician, with special focus on communication and assisting patients with serious illness and their families with difficult decisions regarding care. Participation in interdisciplinary rounds, meetings with patients, symptom assessment, and interactions with other teams. Prerequisite: successful completion of UWSOM Foundation Phase curriculum. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 633 CONJ 659 P-Chronic Care/Geriatrics - Missoula VHC (8) Exposure to rehabilitation, palliative care, pain management, and geriatrics. Students focus on one area and are assigned to a preceptor and clinical site to concentrate clinical activities in that content area. Includes didactic orientation on the first day and patient case presentations during didactic on the last day. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 659 CONJ 664 P-Chronic Care/Palliative Care - Kline Galland Home (8) Exposure to rehabilitation. Students assigned to a preceptor and clinical site to concentrate their clinical activities. Includes didactic orientation on the first day and patient case presentations during didactic on the last day. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 664 CONJ 665 P-Chronic Care/Palliative Care - PHOS (8) Exposure to rehabilitation, palliative care, and pain management. Students focus on one area and are assigned to a preceptor and clinical site to concentrate clinical activities in that content area. Includes didactic orientation on the first day and patient case presentations during didactic on the last day. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 665 CONJ 668 P-Chronic Care/Spokane - St. Luke's Rehab, Pain Management (8) Exposure to rehabilitation, palliative care, and pain management. Students focus on one area and are assigned to a preceptor and clinical site to concentrate clinical activities in that content area. Includes didactic orientation on the first day and patient case presentations during didactic on the last day. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 668 CONJ 669 P-Chronic Care/Spokane - Deaconess Palliative Care (8) Exposure to rehabilitation, geriatrics, palliative care, and pain management. Students are assigned to a preceptor and clinical site to concentrate clinical activities. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 669 CONJ 675 P-Chronic Care/Palliative Care - GHHH Tacoma (8) Exposure to rehabilitation, palliative care, and pain management. Students focus on one area and are assigned to a preceptor and clinical site to concentrate their clinical activities in that content area. Includes didactic orientation on the first day and patient case presentations during didactic on the last day. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 675 CONJ 677 P-Clinical Allergy and Immunology (*, max. 12) Clinic and office experience in diagnosing and managing allergic disease. Clinical conferences, hospital rounds on clinical immunology and allergy. Student may elect a flexible program, emphasizing adult or pediatric allergy. (Four weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: MED 665 or basic clerkships in departments of Family Medicine or Pediatrics. Instructors: (Boise Veterans' Affairs Hospital), (University of Washington Medical Center) View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 677 CONJ 679 P-Chronic Care/Palliative Care - PRMC (8) Exposure to palliative care. Students are assigned to a preceptor and clinical site to concentrate their clinical studies. Includes didactic orientation on the first day and patient case presentations during didactics on last day. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 679 CONJ 680 P-Detoxification and Rehabilitation Program for Alcoholism and Drug Abuse (*, max. 16) J. REOUX Supervised introduction to alcoholic detoxification and rehabilitation and drug abuse. Supervised clinical experience in a variety of alcoholism and drug abuse treatment programs; accompanied by a core series of lectures and discussions. For medical students only. Prerequisite: Completion of 3rd year psychiatry clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 680 CONJ 681 P-Chronic Care/Palliative Care - Children's (8) Exposure to palliative care. Students are assigned to a preceptor and clinical site to concentrate their clinical activities. Includes didactic orientation on the first day and patient case presentations during didactic on the last day. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 681 CONJ 696 P-WRITE Clinical Electives (*, max. 24) Clinical electives for WRITE program. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 696 CONJ 697 International Exchange Clerkship (12) Hunt Participation in healthcare delivery systems in developing countries; observation of relationship of host country's traditional medicine with Western medicine. Students live in cross-cultural setting to better understand their own assumptions about healthcare and life styles. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 697 CONJ 698 P-Foreign Medical Student Clerkship (*, max. 24) A limited number of students from foreign medical schools are accepted for individually designed clinical clerkships at available sites after all UWMC students are accommodated. Prerequisite: permission of Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Medicine. View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 698 CONJ 699 P-Clinical Clerkships (*, max. 32) View course details in MyPlan: CONJ 699 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022