Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Body Image Concerns Body Image Concerns Following national standards for excellent care, Columbia Health has established a multidisciplinary team of specialists in eating disorders. Students who have paid the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee are eligible to receive eating disorder assessments and counseling on campus. Students receiving care at Columbia Health may be provided with short-term individual psychotherapy, group counseling, nutrition counseling, and medical monitoring. The team will continue to assess a student's progress over time and make recommendations based on the student's engagement in treatment and level of functioning. Concerned? Learn about the most common eating disorders and their symptoms. Eating Disorders Team The Eating Disorders team is comprised of medical providers and mental health practitioners—physicians, nurse practitioners, nurses, nutritionists, social workers, and psychologists. Students initially demonstrating an eating concern will see a therapist, a nutritionist, and a medical provider for individualized assessments. Members of the eating disorders team work closely together to provide appropriate assessment of, and treatment for, students with a range of eating, weight, and body image concerns. The team then reviews initial assessments and makes recommendations for treatment. Consider making an appointment with the team when experiencing one or more of these concerns: Significant preoccupation or dissatisfaction with your body shape or weight Self-worth is unduly influenced by your body image Persistent food restriction due to a fear of gaining weight Persistent over-exercising Intense fear of gaining weight or becoming fat Recurrent episodes of binge eating Recurrent inappropriate behaviors in an effort to control weight, such as self-induced vomiting, misuse of laxatives or diuretics and so forth The mental health professionals on the team are: Expand all Collapse all Annette Santiago-España, Psychologist and Associate Director for Eating Disorders Team Annette has over 15 years of experience providing individual and group therapy and psychoeducational outreach to students with a range of eating concerns and has served as the clinical team leader since 2007. She has presented at national and international conferences on the treatment of eating disorders and is a member of the Academy for Eating Disorders. She has conducted research on the impact of acculturation, depression, and body dissatisfaction on disordered eating and continues to be curious about social, cultural, and interpersonal factors that may contribute to the development and maintenance of eating disorders. Annette believes the journey toward recovery can be a challenging one but with the appropriate level of support from a multidisciplinary team of eating disorder professionals, students can learn healthy ways of coping with stressful situations; improve their relationships with food, self and others; develop problem-solving skills; improve body image; and maintain a healthy, balanced lifestyle. Annette is fluent in Spanish. Weiyen Chung, Psychologist Weiyen joined the Eating Disorders team in 2019. She is a licensed Clinical Psychologist and is interested in symptoms of anxiety, perfectionism, and their role in eating concerns, particularly with newer culture shifts towards “healthy” and “clean” eating. She aims to develop a collaborative environment in order to identify adaptive strategies for individuals to improve their relationship to food and maintain a balanced and healthy lifestyle. Eduvigis Cruz-Arrieta, Psychologist Dr. Eduvigis Cruz-Arrieta joined the Eating Disorder team in February 2018. She is a licensed clinical psychologist with 20 years of experience, most recently focused on behavioral health approaches to staying healthy at any size. She brings her experiences as a woman, a bilingual emigrant with a multicultural inheritance, a former dancer, and a seasoned psychotherapist to her understanding of people's relationships to their bodies. Jennifer Dunbar, Licensed Clinical Social Worker Jennifer joined the eating disorders team in 2021 as a licensed clinical social worker. Prior to Columbia she worked alongside physicians and psychiatrists in a primary care clinic and believes in treating individuals holistically utilizing an interdisciplinary care team. Jennifer has a clinical interest in the effect of culture on the development of eating disorders/body image issues. She uses a culturally informed and strengths-based approach to develop a therapeutic alliance with her patients. Renee Gibbs, Psychologist Renee Gibbs joined Columbia Health and the CPS Eating Disorder Treatment Team in 2020 after nine years of psychology practice in the Department of Veterans Affairs. Dr. Gibbs provided treatment and led program development efforts in eating disorder treatment and training at the VA, including serving as the national lead trainer and consultant for the Eating Disorder Initiative. Additionally, she was the clinician investigator for a research clinical trial that evaluated a treatment protocol for Binge Eating Disorder (BED) at the PRIME Innovation research program at VA Connecticut. She primarily practices eating disorder treatment from a cognitive-behavioral treatment orientation and is devoted to providing interdisciplinary care with the Eating Disorders treatment team. Lucia Haladjian, Psychologist Dr. Lucia Haladjian is a Clinical Psychology Postdoctoral Fellow. She joined the eating disorders team at CPS in January 2021. Prior to working at CPS, she completed a pre-doctoral internship at a community mental health clinic, Hamilton-Madison House with a rotation at Gracie-Square Hospital at NewYork Presbyterian Hospital. Her specialized training includes psychodynamic interpersonal and relational therapy, dialectical behavioral therapy, and cognitive behavioral approaches for individuals coping with eating disorders and comorbid anxiety, depression, bipolar disorder, and trauma-related issues. She is especially dedicated to utilizing these approaches to address immigration and first-generation stressors including acculturation and adjustment, gender-related discrimination, and intergenerational trauma and healing as they impact body image and eating concerns. Lucia is fluent in German. Doreen Han-Faver, Psychiatrist Doreen has worked for many years as a child and adolescent psychiatrist. One of her main areas of interest is facilitating the emotional and psychological transition to adulthood. Eating disorders sometimes arise during this period of transitions. She understands that while a person may or may not be particularly distressed by eating disorder symptoms, these symptoms often do represent stress in one or more areas of a person’s life such as social, emotional, academics, and family. She takes a multidisciplinary approach in helping people recover from eating disorders. Doreen is fluent in Mandarin. Alexandra Lane, Postdoctoral Fellow Alexandra has worked in the Eating Disorder units at the University of Miami and Johns Hopkins University. Her research focuses on acculturation processes. Her interests include the relationship between body image and disordered eating. She uses literature, film and art in her therapeutic work. Support Groups and Workshops When there is sufficient student interest, we offer a variety of groups and workshops that may be of interest, including Making Peace with Food and Reawakening Your Healthy Self: Eating Concerns Group for Women. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, our offices are currently closed. If you are experiencing high levels of distress and are in need of immediate assistance, please call 212-854-2878, available 24/7. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Counseling and Psychological Services Clinical Specialty Counseling Body Image Concerns Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close