Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office of the President About Mission & Strategic Plan University Governance Communications Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Governance President's Council Key Leadership Board of Trustees Board of Visitors Faculty Senate Staff Senate Student Government Association Alumni Association Board UofM Foundation Board University Transparency Take Action Review Presidential Communications Meet Key Leaders Contact the Office of the President Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Office of the President Governance President's Council President's Council View the Operating Principles of the President's Council Stephanie Beasley Chief of Staff Phone: 901.678.5021 Fax: 901.678.5065 E-mail: sbeasly1@memphis.edu Office: 341 Administration Building Office of the President Stephanie works directly with the President in the development and implementation of strategic initiatives that support the University’s vision. She works with the leadership team to coordinate and track projects and assists in framing and advancing key initiatives. She also oversees all operations of the Office of the President. Lynda Wray Black Faculty Athletics Representative to the NCAA Phone: 901.678.3225 E-mail: l.black@memphis.edu Office: 360 Law School Faculty Athletics Committee Professor Black serves as the Faculty Athletics Representative (FAR) to the NCAA and is an Associate Professor of Law at the University’s Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law. She is the liaison between the University and the Athletics Department, working closely with Athletics to develop and implement policies which improve the student-athlete experience. Chris Bourque Staff Senate President Phone: 901.678.4269 Fax: 901.678.4207 E-mail: Chris.Bourque@memphis.edu Office: 222 University Center Staff Senate Mr. Bourque is the current Staff Senate President, who leads staff senate representatives in 15 clusters across campus. Staff Senate endeavors to foster a spirit of respect, dignity, unity and cooperation among the staff and acts to promote the general welfare of the staff as it relates to the University. Staff Senate acts as an agent to promote better understanding, cooperation and communication within the campus community for the benefit and betterment of all. Kiersten Brockman Graduate Student Association President Phone: 901.729.9629 E-mail: klbrckmn@memphis.edu Office: FIT Graduate School 201 K Graduate School Association As Graduate Student Association President, Kiersten oversees five Executive Board members, General Assembly representatives from every college and more than 2,200 members. While the GSA is a registered student organization (RSO), it is also the official liaison between graduate students and the graduate school. Kiersten's main goal is to advocate for students through promoting social and financial resources directly to students as well as serving on several administrative committees and actively seeking opportunities for increased student support. Ron Brooks Vice President for Physical Plant Phone: 901.678.2077 Fax: 901.678.2077 E-mail: rbrooks@memphis.edu Office: 223 Herzog Building Physical Plant Mr. Brooks has responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the physical facilities, building services and landscape operations. Also, he is responsible for space planning and utilization, sustainability, rental property, pest control, and surplus property management. Physical Plant provides services in 239 buildings at eight locations and employs more than 300 men and women to serve the needs of the faculty, staff and students. Mr. Brooks is a Professional Engineer licensed in Illinois and Tennessee. He holds both a bachelors and masters degree in Civil Engineering. He has held leadership roles in the Association of Higher Education Facilities Officers (APPA), the Southeastern Regional Association of Physical Plant Administrators (SRAPPA), and the Tennessee Association of Physical Plant Administrators (TNAPPA). Colton Cockrum Assistant Vice Provost, Institutional Effectiveness, Accreditation and Academic Assessment Phone: 901.678.4715 Fax: 901.678.2250 E-mail: ccockrum@memphis.edu Office: 217 Administration Building IEAAA Dr. Cockrum leads the University’s Institutional Effectiveness, Accreditation, and Academic Assessment office. In this role, he oversees the institution’s compliance with all standards and core requirements of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges and serves as the university’s accreditation liaison. Additionally, he helps the institution fulfill all of the requirements of Quality Assurance Funding, which is a part of the state’s outcomes based funding formula. He also oversees the submission of data for university rankings including US News and World Report and Times Higher Education surveys. Joanna Curtis Vice President for Advancement Phone: 901.678.5274 Fax: 901.678.1699 E-mail: jecurtis@memphis.edu Office: 323 Administration Building University Advancement | Alumni Association Ms. Curtis leads the Advancement Office and the Office of Alumni and Constituent Relations, which work to advance the mission of the University and enrich its future by securing philanthropic support for academic initiatives university-wide. This is accomplished by fostering donor-centered relationships with alumni, friends and organizations. The Development Office includes annual giving, major giving, planned giving, corporate and foundation relations, donor relations and advancement services. Alumni and Constituent Relations maintains the connection between the University and its alumni and friends, fostering lifelong relationships and involvement through the UofM Alumni Association. Bridgette Decent Associate Vice Provost for Strategic Analytics Phone: 901.678.5502 E-mail: bdecent@memphis.edu Office: 216 Administration Building Office of Institutional Research Dr. Decent leads the University’s Office of Institutional Research and provides support for business intelligence, analytics, and reporting across the institution. Dr. Decent provides expertise in predictive analytics, data modeling, and using data for strategic planning. Jasbir Dhaliwal Executive Vice President for Research and Innovation Phone: 901.678.1618 Fax: 901.678.0378 E-mail: jdhaliwl@memphis.edu FedEx Institute of Technology | Division of Research and Innovation Dr. Dhaliwal is responsible for the planning and implementation of the university’s strategic research plan. As chief research and innovation officer, he leads all efforts relating to the University’s goal of being an internationally recognized research institution with the highest level of research activity with a special focus on leading through innovation in relation to its urban metropolitan context. This includes serving as the executive director of the FedEx Institute of Technology which, as the front door to the university's research capabilities and infrastructure, promotes interdisciplinary research clusters, corporate engagement and technology commercialization. He also leads strategic innovation priorities for the President's Office to modernize the university's academic and research culture. Tammy Hedges Executive Vice President for University Relations Phone: 901.678.2843 Fax: 901.678.3607 E-mail: thedges@memphis.edu Office: 308 Administration Building Marketing and Communications | University Programs & Special Projects As the Executive Vice President for University Relations, Ms. Hedges has responsibility for the Department of Marketing and Communications, Athletic Marketing and External Relations and the Department of University Programs & Special Projects. She is responsible for expanding the public's general knowledge and understanding of the University of Memphis, UofM Lambuth and UofM Global. Ms. Hedges and her team communicate news and publicize activities taking place at, or under the auspices of, the UofM. The department is also responsible for the UofM's social media engagement, website maintenance, institutional branding and many of the University's major events and special projects. In addition, she oversees all marketing efforts related to Tiger Athletics. Kandi Hill-Clarke Senior Serving Dean (College of Education) Phone: 901.678.4265 Fax: 901.678.4778 E-mail: K.Hill-Clarke@memphis.edu Office: 215 Ball Hall College of Education Dr. Hill-Clarke serves as Dean of the College of Education. In her role as dean, Hill-Clarke oversees recruitment, evaluation and promotion of faculty and staff; supports faculty and staff development; facilitates the planning and execution of the budget; serves as broker and architect of strategic partnerships; leads student recruitment, retention, and completion efforts; and actively participates in development and fundraising. The College of Education is home to three academic departments - Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research (CEPR), Instruction & Curriculum Leadership (ICL) and Leadership (LEAD). Driven by a commitment to excellence, equity and innovation, the COE offers more than 35 degree programs including undergraduate, graduate and doctoral degrees, as well as professional certificate programs. Robert Jackson Chief Information Officer Phone: 901.678.8324 Fax: 901.678.5656 E-mail: rjax@memphis.edu Office: 377 Administration Building Information Technology Services Dr. Jackson leads Information Technology Services (ITS) and is responsible for IT strategic planning, policy recommendations, information security and governance. He ensures ITS meets academic and administrative computing needs through oversight of the ITS Service Desk, Network Services, Telecommunications and Data Center Operations, Desktop Support, Enterprise Infrastructure Services, Research Computing and Enterprise Application Services. Raaj Kurapati Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Phone: 901.678.2121 Fax: 901.678.5128 E-mail: kurapati@memphis.edu Office: 367 Administration Building Division of Business and Finance Physical Plant | Police Services | Campus Planning and Design Raaj Kurapati leads the University's Division of Business and Finance which consists of the areas of Finance, Human Resources and Business Services, and also oversees the departments of Physical Plant, Police Services and Campus Planning and Design. He has responsibility for ensuring that the University's fiscal resources are managed responsibly and appropriately. He evaluates and advises on the impact of short and long range planning and the introduction and/or enhancement of programs and strategies by providing financial input and leadership on decision-making issues affecting the organization. He also oversees the implementation of innovative and proactive programs and services responding to the changing needs and requirements of the University’s financial, business services, and human resources functions. Justin Lawhead Dean of Students; Chief Health & Safety Officer Phone: 901.678.2187 Fax: 901.678.4534 E-mail: justin.lawhead@memphis.edu Office: 359 University Center Dean of Students Dr. Lawhead serves as the Dean of Students. In this role, he conducts administrative and programmatic oversight and coordination for the following departments: Student Accountability, Student Leadership and Involvement, Career Services, Student Outreach and Support, and Multicultural Affairs. He Implements overall vision, direction, leadership, and the continued development of a student-centered team and programs focusing on student success. He is also the University’s Chief Health & Safety Officer, a role in which he oversees the Student Health Center, the Counseling Center, all COVID-19 minimization efforts and University Police Services. Melanie Murry University Counsel Phone: 901.678.2155 Fax: 901.678.3489 E-mail: mmurry@memphis.edu Office: 201 Administration Building Office of Legal Counsel Ms. Murry is responsible for the legal work of the University, which includes a broad array of issues from contracts to employment matters to intellectual property. She is assisted by the employees of the Office of Legal Counsel, which she manages. The mission of the office is to provide timely and competent legal assistance to all areas of the University and to assist the University in accomplishing its mission. Tom Nenon Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost Phone: 901.678.2119 Fax: 901.678.3643 E-mail: tnenon@memphis.edu Office: 360 Administration Building Academic Affairs Dr. Nenon, former dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, is the chief academic officer of the University. He has served as interim provost of the UofM from September 1, 2012 to March 15, 2013. He will be responsible for ensuring that the University's teaching, research, and service missions are successfully implemented. He works closely with the deans and directors of the academic areas to ensure that the University recruits and retains high-quality faculty who offer optimal student experiences. James Orr Vice Provost for Academic Affairs and Strategic Enrollment Management Phone: 901.678.1375 Fax: 901.678.3643 Email: james.orr@memphis.edu Office: 360 Administration Building Academic Affairs Strategic Enrollment Management Dr. Orr provides supervision and leadership to the University Undergraduate Council (undergraduate curriculum), Office of Institutional Research, Office of Institutional Effectiveness and Accreditation, and the Division of Strategic Enrollment Management. He also serves as the academic liaison to the Tennessee Higher Education Commission (THEC) and co-chair of the University’s Office of Process Improvement. Dr. Orr is an academic, enrollment and student success strategist with expertise in utilizing data analytics, policy development and project management methodologies to support University innovations and strategic enrollment initiatives. Dr. Shahram Pezeshk Senior Serving Chair (Department of Civil Engineering) Phone: 901.678.4727 Fax: 901.678.3026 E-mail: spezeshk@memphis.edu Office: Engineering Science Building - Room 104A Department of Civil Engineering Dr. Pezeshk was named Chair of the Department of Civil Engineering in 2018. He has more than 35 years of experience in teaching and research in earthquake engineering and engineering seismology. He works closely with the Dean of the Herff College of Engineering and Civil Engineering faculty to achieve the University's strategic goal of maintaining the R1 status. Under his leadership, the Department of Civil Engineering research and the graduate program has steadily grown. Dr. Niles Reddick Dean, UofM Lambuth Phone: 901.678.1936 Fax: 731.425.1916 E-mail: niles.reddick@memphis.edu Office: 100 Varnell-Jones UofM Lambuth Dr. Niles Reddick is a Professor of Humanities and is the Chief Operating Officer and Dean of the UofM Lambuth campus in Jackson, TN. He manages all aspects of the 57 acre historic campus that offers sixteen bachelor degrees to approximately 1,400 students. He has over 450 fiction and CNF publications, has received many writing accolades including Pulitzer, Pushcart and Best Microfiction nominations, and he holds a Ph.D. from Florida State University, a M.A. from The University of West Georgia, and a B.A. from Valdosta State University. Atlantica Smith Student Government Association President Phone: 901.678.2051 Fax: 901.678.4534 Email: tsmith61@memphis.edu Office: 214 University Center Student Government Association As Student Body President, Atlantica leads over 34 senators representing different colleges, and At-Large positions across the University of Memphis Main, Lambuth, Law & Nursing campuses. Her responsibilities will consist of amplifying the student bodies voice, and working hand and hand with students,faculty, & alumni to better the collegaite experiences for all associate, undergrad, & grad students attending the University of Memphis. As well as she will help each senator in her Senate Chamber to create bills that will go into effect of bettering the campus environment for current students & visitors. Pat Travis Faculty Senate President Phone: 901.678.2512 Email: wptravis@memphis.edu Office: 382 Administration Building Faculty Senate As president of the Faculty Senate, Dr. Travis leads 44 senators representing departments, independent units and areas across the University. Faculty Senate serves as a forum for the formulation of faculty opinion, a University-wide voice for faculty views and the primary vehicle for faculty participation in University governance. Katie VanLandingham Chief Government Relations and Policy Officer Phone: 901.678.3187 Fax: 901.678.0863 E-mail: K.L.V@memphis.edu Office: 322 Administration Building Office of Government Relations and Policy Ms. VanLandingham leads the University's government relations and policy efforts at the local, state and federal government levels. Her team will monitor and advocate legislation on higher education policy issues. Laird Veatch Vice President and Director of Intercollegiate Athletics Phone: 901.678.5395 Fax: 901.678.5078 Email: lfveatch@memphis.edu Office: 101 Athletic Office Building UofM Athletics Mr. Veatch has the responsibility for oversight of all intercollegiate sports associated with the University. He has responsibility for all on-campus intercollegiate athletic facilities and works with the Liberty Bowl and FedEx Forum. In addition, he has responsibility for negotiating contracts and fund-raising for the division. Karen Weddle-West Vice President for Student Academic Success and Director of Diversity Initiatives Phone: 901.678.2114 Fax: 901.678.5202 E-mail: kweddle@memphis.edu Office: 235 Administration Building Student Academic Success As Vice President for Student Academic Success, Dr. Weddle-West's main goal is to make sure students have the best support and learning opportunities possible. She is responsible for ensuring the areas under her division support the University’s academic mission by offering a wide variety of programs and services across nine departments that inspire students’ intellectual, professional, civic and personal growth both on campus and in a diverse global society. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/19/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.