Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Division of Research and Innovation About Vision, Mission, & Values Researchers Business & Partners News Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Researcher Resources Identify Interest Getting StartedCommon Funding OpportunitiesInternal Funding OpportunitiesCollaboration and Networking ERA Getting StartedCayuse TrainingImportant FormsSponsor News & Updates Route & Submit Getting Started Electronic Research Administration PI Eligibility Research Forms & Guides Sponsor Guidance Research Compliance Getting StartedHuman Subjects (IRB)Research Data SecurityFinancial Conflict of InterestAnimal Care (IACUC)Export Controls Award & Grants Getting StartedSponsored AgreementsAdvance AccountsNon-Financial Post-AwardReports and DeliverablesSubaward AdministrationClosing the Award Training Resources Training CalendarCurrent Training ResourcesArchive of Past TrainingFIT Training ResourcesCayuse TrainingCoRS Training How do I? Institutional Information Research Forms Take Action For Researchers For Business Strategic Goals & Tactical Plan Contact Us @UofMemphis FacebooktwitterLinkedn Home Division of Research and Innovation Researchers Sponsor Guidance FEDERAL SPONSOR GUIDANCE Awards from federal agencies are currently governed by the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards (UG) 2 CFR 200. These regulations are better known as the Uniform Guidance, or UG. The UG superseded the previous Office of Management and Budget (OMB A-21, A-110 and A-133) Circulars. The Uniform Guidance became effective on December 26, 2014. New awards for grants and cooperative agreements made after the effective date are subject to the Uniform Guidance. In order to streamline, address, and implement the Uniform Guidance, the Federal Government published the Research Terms and Conditions (RTC). Similar to the Uniform Guidance, these will be the base terms and conditions for research funding from agencies that have adopted the RTC. Many agencies will supplement the RTCs with Agency Specific Requirements (ASR’s). The following list provides award guidance for the federal agencies that provide the majority of federal funding for research at University of Memphis. National Science Foundation (NSF) The NSF uses their Research.gov electronic system for award management. Awards from NSF are governed by the Uniform Guidance and the terms set forth in the NSF Proposal & Award Policies Procedures Guide (PAPPG) and the National Science Foundation Grant General Conditions (GC-1). National Institutes of Health (NIH) The NIH uses their eRA Commons electronic systems for award management. NIH awards are subject to the Uniform Guidance as well as the terms and conditions set forth in the NIH Grants Policy Statement. Department of Energy (DOE) The DOE utilizes their Portfolio Analysis and Management System (PAMS) for award management. DOE awards are governed by the Uniform Guidance. DOE has supplemented the UG with their own guidance, which is published in the Code of Federal Regulations as 2 CFR 910. Office of Naval Research (ONR) ONR awards are not currently managed by any electronic system. ONR awards are subject to the Uniform Guidance and the R&D General Terms and Conditions. Other Agencies: Similar to the agencies listed above, some of the following federal agencies also function with their own award terms and conditions in addition to those incorporated by the Uniform Guidance. For agencies that have their own award terms and conditions in addition to the UG, they are linked after the name of the agency below. Always be sure to read the award document for any special terms and conditions and links to updated award guidance. Department of Defense (DoD) - R&D General Terms and Conditions Department of the Air Force (Air Force) - R&D General Terms and Conditions Department of the Army (Army) - R&D General Terms and Conditions Department of Education (DOEd) – General Administrative Regulations Department of Agriculture (USDA) – General Terms and Conditions National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) – General Terms and Conditions Department of Commerce (DOC) – Standard Terms and Conditions National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) – Standard Award Conditions Department of the Interior (DOI) – Standard Award Terms and Conditions U.S. Geological Survey - R&D General Terms and Conditions U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service – Standard Award Terms and Conditions Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) – General Terms and Conditions National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) – General Terms and Conditions National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) – General Terms and Conditions STATE OF TENNESSE GUIDANCE https://policies.tbr.edu/guidelines/contracts-guideline UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH AND SPONSORED PROGAMS POLICIES https://www.memphis.edu/policies/ Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 6/2/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.