Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Parent & Family Services Get Involved Events & Services News Resources Support Us Visit UofM Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Events & Services Parent & Family Weekend Parents for Penny Parent & Family Spring Day Send Some Love Summer Sendoffs Take Action Join the Parent & Family Association Check out the Tiger Family Resource Hub Check out In the Now: Monthly FAQs Contact Us: We are here to help! Follow Parent & Family Services InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Parent & Family Services Events & Services Parent & Family Events Parent & Family Services works to engage and connect parents and family members in the University of Memphis community throughout the year. Join us for our next event or take advantage of one of our services to support your student! Fall Parent & Family Weekend, September 23-25, 2022 Whether you are a local or from outside the Mid-South, Parent and Family Weekend is a wonderful time to see your student, visit campus and get to experience life as a Tiger! You will have the opportunity to meet other Tiger families, faculty and University administrators. You won't want to miss this fun-filled weekend! Learn more about Parent & Family Weekend > Football Game Days Experience a football game with your student each fall! Students may purchase up to two guest tickets with seats in the Student Section for each game at the Athletic Ticket Office for $10, while supplies last. Need more tickets? Purchase tickets for the whole family. Purchase tickets > Spring Parents for Penny Parent & Family Spring Day Join fellow UofM parents, families, and students for a spirited day as we cheer on the Tigers and enjoy downtown Memphis. The event is an opportunity to connect with the University of Memphis, support your student, get to know fellow parents and families, and show your Tiger pride. Learn More about Parent & Family Spring Day > Send Some Love Finals Care Packages Finals can be a stressful time for students. Surprise and support your student during finals with a care package filled with yummy snacks and UofM goodies with proceeds supporting our Tiger Pantry. Learn more about and Order a Finals Care Packages > Hug from Home Surprise & support your student with a Hug from Home! These are a great way to send love to your student. Proceeds go to support our Tiger Food Pantry for students in need. Learn more and Order a Hug from Home > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.