<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Portrait Project Portrait Project Sara Mattei Gentili MBA 2022 “Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?” I don’t recall a moment in my life when I had that comforting feeling of belonging. What I do remember perfectly, is the first time I thought I was odd. My kindergarten classmates played in the school’s courtyard, and I sat in a corner reading — Little Women by Louisa Alcott — my mother’s favorite book. A kid walked up to me. In an attempt to connect, I shared something about the story I was reading. “You are weird,” said the kid and he turned his back and rejoined the group. That moment, I realized that I needed to work to fit in. For 15 years I made it my mission. I would study the people surrounding me. What did they like? What were they interested in? How did they speak? I thought the more I knew, the more I could emulate, and the more I would belong. One day, I realized, no matter how hard I tried, I was an outcast. So, I stopped trying. I realized that the one person I needed to belong to was myself. It felt liberating. I embraced the things that made me stand out and those became my strengths. So now I graduate with a new mission: being unapologetically myself and showing all weird and odd little girls hiding in corners that they can step out of the shadows and shine. — Sara Mattei Gentili The Portrait Project Each year we ask our classmates a straightforward, simple question taken from the lines of a poem by Pulitzer Prize-winning author, Mary Oliver. We share with you intimate and candid responses to this question, "Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?" Concept and photography: Tony Deifell, MBA '02 More Portrait Project ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College