Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Main Navigation Our Story Show Extended Division of Student Affairs Welcome Leadership Team Organizational Chart Our Purpose Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Assessment Programs Professional Development Staff of the Month Program Publications Faculty Resource Page Student Employment University Employment Contact Us California State University, Fullerton 2018-2023 Strategic Plan Branding Campus News Donate Facts & Figures College Access and Career Pathways Engagement and Well-Being Identity and Belonging Virtual Student Services Associated Students Inc., CSUF Titan Athletics Academic Appeals Title IX and Gender Equity Show Extended Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex Hispanic-Serving Institution Initiatives Hispanic-Serving Institution (HSI) Initiatives Dear Titans, ¡Saludos! I am incredibly excited to have the Division of Student Affairs supporting Cal State Fullerton’s campus-wide celebration of 2021 National HSI Week. Taking place from September 13-19, 2021, National HSI Week at CSUF will give our Titan Family a chance to enjoy, engage, and highlight the significance of our university’s designation as a Hispanic-Serving Institution (HSI). As you may know, CSUF was granted its HSI designation in 2004. This designation is given to campuses that enroll over 25% Latinx students. On our campus, we pride ourselves in our efforts beyond the designation and focus on intentionally serving our Latinx students through the myriad of programs and services offered. As we approach National HSI Week, I ask you to consider ways to help amplify awareness of CSUF's HSI designation, and when the week arrives, join us in celebration. Be well, be joyous! Tonantzin Oseguera Vice President Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Departments Spotlighted in the Seal of Excelencia application The Student Affairs departments below were recently recognized for their work and dedication to serving Latinx students at CSUF. Career Center First-Generation Support Programs Center for Educational Partnerships Center for Scholars Diversity Initiatives & Resource Center Male Success Initiative-Fullerton Outreach & Recruitment Tuffy's Basic Needs Services Center Tuffy’s Graduation Scholars Veteran's Resource Center (Veteran Ambassador Program) Cal State Fullerton as a Hispanic-Serving Institution Cal State Fullerton was designated an HSI in 2004 by the U.S. Department of Education. 46.2% of CSUF’s 40,000+ students identify as Latinx. CSUF ranks No. 2 in California and No. 4 in the nation for awarding bachelor’s degrees to Hispanic students (Diverse, 2020; Hispanic Outlook on Education, 2020). CSUF ranks No. 1 in California for awarding bachelor’s degrees to underrepresented students (Diverse, 2020; Hispanic Outlook on Education, 2020). As an active member of HACU, CSUF hosts the Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (CSUF-HACU) Ambassador Program, which provides students a fully-funded opportunity to attend the HACU National Conference to learn about issues impacting Latinx students in Higher Education and beyond. CSUF holds several HSI grants that support the following programs: A Next Generation High-Performance Computing Cluster for Research and Teaching at a Primarily Undergraduate Hispanic-Serving Institution Advancing Student Success by Utilizing Relevant Social-Cultural and Academic Experiences for Undergraduate Engineering, Computer Science Students (ASSURE-US) CSUF Dwight David Eisenhower Transportation Fellowship Program (DDETFP) 2020 Establishing Roots to Grow STEMs: Building Capacity in a College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Exploration of Factors that Pose Barriers to Students Seeking Educational Support and Their Relationship to STEM Project RAISE: Regional Alliance in STEM Education Project upGRADS ( Utilizing & Promoting Graduate Resources & Access for Disadvantaged Students) About National HSI Week Each year, the Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU) calls on Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs) to join in the observance of National HSI Week. The purpose of National HSI week is to celebrate and build awareness of the work and important role HSIs play in improving access to education, advancing equity practices, and the contributions in their communities. HSI Week reflects the values of CSUF's Guiding Principles for Social Justice and is an opportunity to amplify Latinx voices on campus. Join us in celebrating by participating in the various events on campus or on social media. Use the hashtags #CSUFHSI, #HSIsWeek, #AmplifyingLatinxVoices and tag @CSUFStudents to show use how you celebrate. A Hispanic-Serving Institution (HSI) is defined as an institution of higher education that is an eligible institution; and has an enrollment of undergraduate full-time equivalent students that is at least 25 percent Hispanic students at the end of the award year immediately preceding the date of application. For more information on HSI Week, contact juhernandez@fullerton.edu HSI Week is celebrated during Latinx Heritage Month. Learn more about Latinx Heritage month! Latinx Community Resource Center The Latinx Community Resource Center (LCRC) works to create an inclusive environment for students to engage in history, culture, and equity issues in the Latinx community. Connect with the LCRC Open Mondays - Fridays, 8am - 5pm Location: Pollak Library South 180, Room 184 Phone: (657) 278-2537 Email: lcrc@fullerton.edu Social Media: Facebook | Instagram Latinx Student Organizations Cal State Fullerton is home to many networking and leadership opportunities for Latinx students, including student organizations, sororities, and fraternities dedicated to the Latinx student experience. Learn more about the many Latinx student organizations! Spotlight: HSI Grant Programs Project upGRADS (Utilizing & Promoting Graduate Resources & Access for Disadvantaged Students) Project upGRADS is an initiative supports that Hispanic/Latinx graduate students with faculty mentoring, workshops, summer academic bridge program, scholarships, etc. 30% of CSUF’s master’s students identify Latinx. Project upGRADS is funded until 2024 by the U.S. Department of Education’s HSI Title V program. It is CSUF’s third such 5-year, multimillion dollar grant of which award-winning EPOCHS grant was nationally recognized by Excelencia in Education in 2016. Contact: Luis Molina, Project Director lhmolina@fullerton.edu Project RAISE (Regional Alliance in STEM Education) Project RAISE is a Department of Education Title III HSI-STEM grant awarded to CSUF in October 2016 for developing a regional alliance in STEM education to help such students complete STEM degrees. Through seven activities and partnerships with community colleges, Project RAISE works to increase the number of Hispanic and low-income STEM students and their retention and graduation rates by incorporating activities such as: Undergraduate Research Program (URE), an 8-week summer research experience guided by CSUF faculty RAISE Transfer Program (RTP), a peer advising and academic support program for students who transfer to CSUF Summer Internship Program (SIP), a summer internship program for RTP participants, in collaboration with the Orange County Business Council Outreach visits to CSUF for presentations and lab tours Contact: raise@fullerton.edu Hours: Monday – Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Project RAISE Main Office McCarthy Hall Room 527 This site is maintained by Division of Student Affairs. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact danielramirez@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.