Skip to Content Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Close CU Boulder Today CU Boulder Today Menu Main menu Home News Headlines Campus Community Events & Exhibits Secondary Menu Find a Story Submit a Story For Media Mobile menu Home News Headlines Campus Community Events & Exhibits Find a Story Submit a Story For Media For Media War and Crisis in Ukraine CU Boulder experts are available to discuss various topics related to the war in Ukraine, including the history of conflict, political diplomacy and economic impacts of the war on the United States. Find an Expert Contact Us Contact the Media Relations team to facilitate an interview with a faculty expert and meet your deadline. Email us at cunews@colorado.edu or call 303-735-0122. COVID-19 Media Guidelines Media Parking General Expert Requests Julie Poppen, News & Editorial Director Email 303-492-4007; (M) 720-503-4922 Arts & Humanities Ally Dever, Media Relations Associate Email 303-492-6431 Business & Law Nicole Mueksch, Media Relations Manager Email 303-735-0122 Climate & Environment Kelsey Simpkins, Science Writer Email 303-735-1874 Health & Society Lisa Marshall, Senior Science Editor Email 303-492-3115 Space, Physics, Engineering, Geology, Anthropology, Education & Politics Daniel Strain, Science Writer Email 303-735-5875 Faculty Experts CU Boulder faculty members are available to discuss current events, including various aspects of the global COVID-19 pandemic, and break down developing stories as they happen. Experts by Hot Topic COVID-19 Experts CU Boulder Broadcast Studio CU Boulder's in-house broadcast studio system enables university affiliates to easily conduct high-quality remote interviews with television and radio stations around the country. Learn More & Book Interviews News Headlines Genetic mutations can be benign or cancerous—new identification method could lead to better treatments Finding one cancer-driving mutation in a tumor is like finding a needle in a stack of needles, but the use of public DNA databases could lead to more targeted cancer treatments. CU computer scientist Ryan Layer shares on The Conversation. Read more Can we avert the next mass shooting? Yes, and here’s how CU Boulder researcher Beverly Kingston discusses the recent uptick in school shootings, perpetrator indicators and behaviors, what we can do to stop such violence in schools and public spaces, and more. Read more Protestants and the pill: How US Christians helped make birth control mainstream Conservative Christians have cheered restrictions on some birth control. But many decades ago, Christian leaders’ support helped contraceptives become acceptable in the first place. CU expert Samira Mehta shares on The Conversation. Read more More News Headlines Issues Management Our spokespeople can answer questions about breaking news and developing issues and help facilitate open-records requests. Candace Smith Associate Vice Chancellor of Strategic Communications Email 303-735-6183 Steve Hurlbert Chief Spokesperson Email 720-908-0888 Andrew Sorensen Spokesperson Email 303-492-3114 Christine Mahoney Public Information Officer/Spokesperson CU Police Department Email 303-735-0416 Podcasting Brainwaves, a podcast produced at the University of Colorado Boulder, explores big ideas. Listen to Our Latest Podcasts Photography, Film & Audio Contact us for information on filming on campus or to arrange TV, radio interviews. Audio and Broadcast News Resources Email 303-735-0122 Film and Video Guidelines For help with the use of campus images, contact photo@colorado.edu. Awards The Strategic Media Relations team is recognized for its work telling university stories and communicating to campus stakeholders. Learn about our awards for media relations, feature writing and crisis communications. Highlighted Awards University Statements Read the latest official CU Boulder statements. Stay Informed Sign up for CU Boulder Today email blasts to stay abreast of campus happenings and news. CU Boulder Today Email Sign up to receive CU Boulder news releases. CU Boulder News Releases Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Google Plus Pinterest About CU Boulder At the foot of the Rocky Mountains, the University of Colorado Boulder is nationally recognized as one of only 35 AAU public research universities. Established in 1876, CU Boulder is a Tier 1 public research university with five Nobel laureates, nine MacArthur fellows and is the No. 1 public university recipient of NASA awards. CU Boulder is a leader in many fields, including aerospace engineering, earth and environmental science, physics and environmental law. The school partners with many notable federal research labs, including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL). CU Boulder Buff athletes compete in the NCAA Division I Pac-12 conference. During home football games, CU Boulder’s live bison mascot, Ralphie, can be found running the field with a team of handlers. CU Boulder is partnering with United Nations Human Rights to co-host the Right Here, Right Now Global Climate Summit Dec. 1-4, 2022. Campus Map About Academics Admissions Research Campus Life News Headlines Arts & Humanities Business & Entrepreneurship Climate & Environment Education & Outreach Health & Society Law & Politics Science & Technology Space Campus Community Academics Administration Athletics Career Development Deadlines & Announcements Getting Involved Mind & Body Safety Events & Exhibits Arts & Culture Conferences Exhibits General Lectures & Presentations Performances & Concerts Sports & Recreation Workshops & Seminars Subscribe to CUBT Sign up for Alerts Administrative eMemos Buff Bulletin Board Events Calendar CU Boulder Today CU Boulder Today is created by Strategic Relations and Communications. Faculty-Staff Email Archive Student Email Archive Graduate Student Email Archive New Buffs Email Archive Senior Class Student Email Archive Community Email Archive COVID-19 Digest Archive University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Privacy • Legal & Trademarks • Campus Map Return to the top of the page