Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit Graduate Student Recruitment Recruit innovative thinkers prepared to add value to your organization. Home Recruiters & Companies Graduate Recruitment More in this section Recruiters & Companies Undergraduate Graduate Recruitment Experiential Learning Executive Education Corporate Associates Program Alumni With a talent pool of high achievers and critical thinkers, we at Career Advancement aspire to be your talent champion. We want to help you achieve your recruitment goals and accelerate the time from student application to hired. To begin connecting with next-generation business leaders and meet your hiring timelines, Post A Job directly or Request a Resume Book. You may also schedule interviews face-to-face and virtually. Connect, Collaborate, and Co-Create Our prepared and motivated students seek both full-time and internship opportunities that embrace social corporate responsibility and uphold a high standard of integrity. To tap into the depth and breadth of our talent early, ambitious recruiters connect with us in June. Reach out to the Career Advancement team to develop a recruitment strategy customized to your hiring needs. We will work with you to host timeless classics such as lunch-and-learns, info-sessions, and coffee chats, or explore some of our more creative events like career roundtables, speed dating style, or take-over days. You may also join our Graduate Career Expo each semester. We’re ready to be the game changer in your recruitment strategy for an experience that you and our students will love and find mutually beneficial. We’ll connect, collaborate, and co-create the path that best empowers you to find the right-fitting talent to take your organization to the next level. Connecting You with our Students and Alumni Miami Herbert follows the semester system, which affords two major recruiting periods: 2021 Fall: August through December 2022 Spring: January through May We recognize that, whether you are looking to hire for an internship or a full-time position, recruitment is an investment in the future, and we hope to be an unparalleled partner in your hiring strategy. Just-in-time recruiting For your immediate hiring needs, Miami Herbert Career Advancement provides "Just-In-Time Recruiting." A member of the team works closely with you to post your opportunity and collect resumes. Simply click the Hire a Student! link and post your position directly or email your job description to Miami Herbert Career Advancement. Either way, a team member will contact you, typically the next business day. Connect With Us We’re committed to helping each student find their fit. While international students face hiring challenges, recruiters may find that hiring an applicant on a student visa consists of a straightforward process. Please reach out to recruitgradbusiness@miami.edu for more details. Collaborate Help us accelerate our students’ careers and shorten your talent search. Ways for recruiters to engage: Volunteer a career coach Conduct a mock interview Attend and host networking events Support case interview preparation Speak to a class or join a panel discussion Mentor a student Join a career cluster to help educate students, staff, faculty, and industry partners on the latest trends in the field. Current clusters are financial services, consulting, and data science and analytics Co-create Projects: Partner with faculty and students to solve a real-world problem, delivering measurable ROI for your company. Workshops: Help us deliver a student-club-industry experience that returns value to the employer and increases our students’ skills, such as in Design Thinking, Lean Six Sigma, or structured problem solving for innovation and case interview prep. We roll up our sleeves and happily boost our partnership. Competitions: Sponsor a case competition, a data challenge, or a hack-a-thon. If you have an idea, let’s co-create a transformative learning experience where everyone wins! Start Your Miami Journey Hire A Student Contact Us Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback