Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Information Technology UCIT right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow IT College Contacts Diversity and Inclusion Sitemap Services right arrow down arrow Student Hardware Software right arrow down arrow Student Software Productivity (Students) right arrow down arrow Student Printing with Wepa Computer Labs App & Web Development Research Computing Services Connectivity (Visitors) IT NEXT Get Help right arrow down arrow Report an issue Student Quickstart Guide ResNet Documentation Center Home » About UC » IT@UC » Get Help » Student Quickstart Guide Set Navigation title in component Report an issue Student Quickstart Guide ResNet Documentation Center Student Quickstart Guide Welcome to the University of Cincinnati! IT@UC is here to help you. Use the following as a guide to getting your technology set up both before you arrive on campus and after you get settled in. Before you arrive: Download the UC Mobile App for mobile access to campus maps, shuttle trackers, OneStop and more. right arrow down arrow Download iOS UC Mobile App Download Android UC Mobile App Download the DoubleMap App to track the NightRide Shuttle, a safe, free nighttime shuttle service for students, staff and faculty. right arrow down arrow Learn more about NightRide Download iOS DoubleMap app Download Android DoubleMap App Get discounted student hardware and software. right arrow down arrow View student hardware and software discounts Log in to LinkedIn Learning (free access with UC username and password) Set up your student email account and access your UC email anytime, anywhere. right arrow down arrow Get help with setting up email using our Knowledge Base articles Secure your computer. right arrow down arrow Download and install antivirus software Manage your social media security Learn about password security Secure your password. right arrow down arrow Get your Duo account Learn more about how Duo helps protect your UC password from would-be hackers Once you get here: Use Password Self Service (PSS) to set up your UC password profile. right arrow down arrow Sign in to PSS Help with PSS Log into UC_Secure Wireless with your current UC username and password. right arrow down arrow This step is important to ensure that your account does not get locked due to a device repeatedly using an old password and will allow you to seamlessly to log into your UC account and the UC_Secure network after a recent password update. Connect your computer to UC_Secure. View setup guide for Windows 10. View setup guide for macOSX. View setup guide for Linux. Connect your wireless device to UC_Secure. View setup guide for Apple iOS (iphone, iPad). View setup guide for Android devices. View setup guide for Google Pixel phones Accept the “netauth.uc.edu” authentication certificate on your wireless device(s). right arrow down arrow You may be prompted to accept the “netauth.uc.edu” certificate on each wireless device you use to connect to UC_Secure on campus. How to accept the “netauth.uc.edu” authentication certificate on your wireless device(s). You may be presented with a screen displaying “netauth.uc.edu” after you log into UC_Secure wireless with your UC username and password. Select “Trust” or “Accept.” That’s IT! You may experience a brief delay while your device connects to UC_Secure wireless. Follow the steps below if you cannot successfully connect to UC_Secure wireless or if you did not select “Trust” or “Accept” when prompted with the “netauth.uc.edu” certificate. Select “UC_Secure” from the list of available networks on your device. Select “Forget This Network.” Go back to the list of available networks and log into “UC_Secure” with your UC username and password. Select “Trust” or “Accept” when presented with the “netauth.uc.edu” certificate. Stay informed with Emergency Text Messaging. right arrow down arrow Although not recommended, you may opt-out of this service. NOTE: UC will not sell your information; user is responsible for any charges from their phone carrier. Update emergency text messaging preferences in Catalyst. Get free software support from ResNet. right arrow down arrow Software for personal use (TouchNet Store) Learn more about ResNet Find computer labs and printing stations for all your study and printing needs. right arrow down arrow View on campus computer lab locations Get virtual access to computer lab software with MyDesk.uc.edu Learn more about WEPA printing stations Store, share, and edit files online with Microsoft OneDrive. right arrow down arrow Microsoft OneDrive, part of the Microsoft Office 365 suite of software tools, is the university's official cloud storage and file-sharing solution. Visit the IT@UC Knowledge Base to get started with OneDrive Get Technology Help & Support Check Self Help Guides on the IT@UC Knowledge Base. right arrow down arrow The KB is home to hundreds of articles, custom UC how-to guides, FAQs and more and is available 24/7. Save yourself time–find the answers you need fast with the IT@UC Knowledge Base (KB). SEARCH THE KB Get real-time status of select IT services. right arrow down arrow The IT Services Status module provides real-time updates on 15 essential IT services. You can sign up to receive automated service status notifications via email. VIEW THE IT@UC SERVICES STATUS MODULE Contact the IT@UC Service Desk for general IT issues. right arrow down arrow The IT@UC Service Desk provides assistance with password resets, data and phone, email, wireless access, VPN, UCFlex, Catalyst and more. Submit a ticket. Or, call us: Dial (513) 556-HELP (4357) or (866) 397-3382 from your personal phone. Dial 6-HELP (4357) from a university phone on campus. Then, select option 2. Contact 24/7 Canopy Support for Canopy/eLearning tool issues. right arrow down arrow Our Canopy Support team provides around the clock assistance with Canvas and tools within Canvas. All services available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. Call us: Dial (513) 556-HELP (4357) or (866) 397-3382 from your personal phone. Dial 6-HELP (4357) from a university phone on campus. Then, select option 3. University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top