COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Dr. Marché Fleming-Randle Ph.D. Section Menu Military and Veterans Affairs About Our Division Contact Us Departments Military and Veterans Affairs Council Meet the Vice President About the Chief Diversity Officer Student Ambassadors Dr. Marché Fleming-Randle Ph.D. Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer Military and Veterans Affairs Campus Box 13 (316) 978-5932 marche.fleming-randle@wichita.edu 109, Morrison Hall High-Resolution Photo Military and Veterans Affairs Overview Dr. Marché Fleming-Randle is the first African American Female Vice President for Military and Veterans Affairs at Wichita State University. Her research and academic interests include mental health, child and youth programs, educational leadership and diversity. She is an author, motivational speaker and public intellectual. Dr. Fleming-Randle earned her associate's degree in science from the University of Maryland, bachelor's degree in elementary education, her master’s in adult and continuing education and her doctorate in education leadership from Kansas State University. She holds diversity certifications from Nova Southeastern University and Columbia University. Her publications include The Gumbo Analysis of Diversity Handbook, The Bold, Black and Beautiful, The Dreams Kings are made of, the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Handbook, and numerous articles, policies, research journals and grants. Dr. Fleming-Randle has received a number of awards and honors. She was the recipient of the Excellence in Teaching Award, Wichita Urban Professional Mentor Award, The Business Journal Diversity and Leadership Award, 2017 Sigma Gamma Rho Community Leader Award, and was named Who’s Who Among America’s college professors. She was recognized with the Wichita State University Office of Diversity and Inclusion Phenomenal Woman Award and TRIO Disability Support Services Lighthouse Award for Faculty of the Year, just to name a few. Dr. Fleming-Randle’s hobbies include listening to her favorite musician artist, Prince, talking with friends, watching 007James Bond movies, debating with her father, James Sr., on social issues and spending quality time with her husband, Aron. She is a proud member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc. and The Links, Incorporated. Office contact Teneisha McKinney, teneisha.mckinney@wichita.edu 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©