Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary INTERDISCIPLINARY GRADUATE PROGRAMS HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION AND DESIGN HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION DESIGN Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 HCID 501 Immersion Studio (2) Orients students to core ideas and terminology in human-computer interaction and design. Provides key skills instrumental to success in a studio learning environment. Students learn to apply the human-centered design process and experience working in an interdisciplinary studio environment. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 501 HCID 510 Designing Interactive Systems (3) Covers issues relating to the design and interactive technologies, favoring design thinking in lieu of implementation concerns. Skills include design processes, design rationale, adductive reasoning, structured brainstorming, design techniques, and design critiques. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 510 HCID 511 Ideation Studio (5) Introduces student to ideation: the systematic process of generating design ideas, developing idea variations, and identifying ideas that open promising design directions; with hands-on exercises that give students the skills to participate in and lead ideation processes on their own. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 511 HCID 512 Interfaces Lab (3) Develop skills necessary to create interfaces that align with visual interface design standards and functional requirements of screen-based interactions. Provides an interdisciplinary approach to interface design and development. Emphasizes applying knowledge and best practices in interface design, improving visual fidelity, and connecting interface design outputs to other parts of the software engineering process. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 512 HCID 513 Advanced Interfaces (3) Explores alternatives to graphical user interfaces, such as voice and conversational interfaces, gestural interfaces and spatial interactions, and emergent interactive technologies, such as artificial intelligence, machine learning and more. Students incorporate new concepts and practices in a series of short projects exploring interdisciplinary approaches to designing and developing advanced interfaces. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 513 HCID 520 User Interface Software and Technology (3) Covers fundamental skills in user interface prototyping and implementation, including tools for low and high fidelity prototyping, software architectures for implementing graphical user interfaces on desktop and mobile platforms, and the toolkits that use these software architectures. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 520 HCID 521 Prototyping Studio (5) Examines user-interface prototyping as a foundational skill in user-centered design. Introduces the tools and uses hands-on exercises to enable students to create and refine user-interface prototypes as part of a design process. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 521 HCID 530 Usability and User Research (3) Teaches concepts on engaging with users in the context of a technology design project. Covers both empirical and analytic evaluation techniques. Methods include user interviewing, in-lab usability testing, field deployments, heuristic evaluation, and cognitive walkthrough. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 530 HCID 531 Evaluation Studio (5) Teaches concepts related to conducting user research and usability evaluations. Introduces students to the methods and hands-on exercises that will enable them to determine user needs and usability and acceptability of interactive system designs. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 531 HCID 540 Capstone Planning (1) Students conduct initial research on topic themes, learn to form effective project teams, and identify appropriate industry sponsors, delivering formal project proposals. HCID students only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 540 HCID 541 Capstone Studio (8) Team-based capstone design an interactive product relevant to industry challenges. Students apply iterative design, prototyping and research techniques in an studio format, with peer, faculty, and industry sponsor reviews of deliverables, culminating in a portfolio presentation documenting process and final solutions. Studio content supplemented by demonstrations and guest lecturers. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 541 HCID 561 Portfolio and Professional Practices (1) Helps students represent themselves as an interdisciplinary connector. Students prepare a professional portfolio and learn the related components of the job search in order to find and start a career path related to human-computer interaction and design. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 561 HCID 590 Design, Use, Build Seminar (1, max. 10) Covers the latest research in human-computer interaction and design, through talks by both UW and outside researchers. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 590 HCID 598 Special Topics (1-5, max. 12) Studies of emerging areas and specialized topics in human-computer interaction and design. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 598 HCID 599 Special Projects (1-5, max. 6) Individual graduate projects in human-computer interaction and design. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 599 HCID 600 Independent Study or Research (1-10, max. 10) Independent coursework or research with a faculty member. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HCID 600 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022