COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Holmes Museum Updated Hours From May - August, the museum is open only by appointment. Admission is free, donations are accepted. If you would like to schedule a tour please call 316-978-7068 or email holmes.museum@wichita.edu. Lowell D. Holmes Museum of Anthropology In This Section Holmes Museum Home Museum Collections Current Exhibitions Museum Studies Student Projects Events Newsletter Contact the Holmes Museum Test Page The Lowell D. Holmes Museum of Anthropology offers exhibitions on cultures from around the world and archaeological objects predominantly from the American Midwest and Southwest Current Exhibitions Museum Collections Contact Us Tours Group tours are available by appointment. Please contact the Holmes Museum for more information. Contact us Museum Collections In addition to a large collection of ethnographic Asmat art, the Holmes Museum collections include Chinese and Asian cultural objects, African sculptures, southwest Pueblo pottery, pre-Columbian ceramics, archaeological artifacts from the American Plains and southwest, Latin American textiles, Guatemalan dance masks and costumes, Oceanic material and Native American beadwork and basketry. Learn more Current Exhibitions Discover what's on display at the Holmes Museum. Currently on exhibit Our Purpose The museum has two main functions; to support the educational mission of the Department of Anthropology and Wichita State University and to be a teaching museum operated by students enrolled in the university's Museum Studies Program, which includes the Graduate Museum Studies Certificate. This program gives potential museum professionals hands-on experience in museum administration, operations, and exhibitions. The museum's collections include a wide range of cultural, archaeological, and biological objects. Museum artifacts are not only used within the Department of Anthropology, other departments, campus wide, use the museum's collection for research. The museum is funded primarily by private donations and is continually working to fund student scholarships, student positions, exhibitions, field collecting expeditions, curation supplies, equipment, and acquisitions. If you are interested in helping the museum with the donation of objects or funds please contact Rachelle Meinecke, the Museum Director or contact the Wichita State University Foundation. Museum History The Lowell D. Holmes Museum of Anthropology began in 1966 as the Museum of Man, at the bequest and initiation of Dr. Lowell D. Holmes, Professor of Anthropology at Wichita State University in Wichita, Kansas. Over the next 33 years it grew slowly and became known throughout the campus as a small but interesting museum. The collections and exhibitions include cultural items from around the world and archaeological objects predominantly from the American Midwest and Southwest. In 1999, the Department of Anthropology and the museum moved to a new location in Neff Hall. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©