Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Philippa Loengard Director Lecturer in Law Adjunct Faculty Areas of Study Intellectual Property and Technology Philippa Loengard joined the Kernochan Center for Law, Media and the Arts at Columbia Law School in 2006. Her research focuses on issues surrounding the visual arts and entertainment industries. She is particularly interested in issues of taxation as they pertain to the arts and the rights of authors and creators. Loengard is the Chair of the Copyright Division of the ABA. She also serves as the Chair of the Artists' Rights subcommittee of the Art Law Committee of the New York City Bar Association. She was in private practice at Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel before joining the Kernochan Center staff. An interest in intellectual property issues as they related to her work in documentary film provoked her return to law school. Prior to attending law school, Loengard worked in television production for several years as an assistant director on multiple shows and also as a coordinating producer for A&E Television Networks. She is a graduate of Columbia Law School, where she was a Harlan Fiske Stone scholar and an article editor for the Journal of Law and the Arts. Loengard holds an LL.M. from New York University School of Law. Loengard graduated with a master’s degree from Stanford University, where she was the 1994 recipient of the Karl A. and Medira Bickel Fellowship, and has a bachelor’s degree from Cornell University. Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.