Skip to content HOWDY Portal Home About Giving HOWDY Portal Current Students Former Students Visitors Veterans Directions Phonebook Campus Calendar A-Z List TAMUG Student Veterans Association TAMUG Student Veterans Association MENU SVA Home Benefits Resources The Texas Veterans Portal SVA Home Benefits Resources The Texas Veterans Portal The Student Veterans Association Click here to review letter from Governor Abbott regarding the Texas Veterans Portal Mission Statement The Student Veterans Association (SVA) at TAMUG provides assistance as well as resources for transitioning military personnel. Our mission is to create a comfortable social, and informational environment for veterans while they transition to academia. Our Chapter at a Glance We are extremely excited that you have chosen to make Texas A&M Galveston your new home, and thank you for your brave service to our country. Balancing college with a busy work schedule, and adjusting to civilian life, can be a lot to manage all at once. One reason our chapter exists, is to aid new and current veterans in the transition process, and the overall college experience. As many of our members represent the various backgrounds in the military climate, we seek to model excellence on and off campus, to serve as role models for the student body and to people in the community. With so veterans, we represent a substantial part of the TAMUG student life. The TAMUG-SVA has a fantastic network of adjunct personnel who are always nearby to lend a helping hand, as well as an extensive list of resources on and off campus. Additionally, the SVA participates in community events several times a year, by way of Big Event and community fund raising. Our membership meets every Wednesday at 11:30am in the Northen Banquet Room located in the Mary Moody Northen Student Center. Lunch provided. We always welcome new veterans and look forward to assisting in your new scholastic career! If you need resources or assistance, ASK!! The SVA leadership is here to make this the best experience possible! President: Jarrod Solar (jpsolar@tamu.edu) Vice President: Shaun Pickering (srpic673@tamu.edu) Secretary: John Stencil Treasurer: Jun Wong (junyudolphin@tamu.edu) SGA Representative: Cody Seals (cseals92@tamu.edu) Advisor: Ken Bailey (baileyk@tamug.edu) Advisor: Buzz Refugio '94 (buzz@tamu.edu) Since our inception in 2008, SVA has operated and is structured as a member-driven organization. We are continuously looking for ways to better serve and support student veterans. Come and join us at our local events, or meet us around campus. Join us! Financial Aid Counseling and Disability Services TAMU Veterans Services Web Resources American Legion Combined Arms Houston National Cenetery National Resource Directory South Centeral VA Health Care (Houston, TX) TexServes - North Texas TexServes - San Antonio Texas Veteran Centers Texas Veterans Commission Texas Veterans Leadership Program TexVet Veterans Benefits Administration Regional Office (Houston, TX) Veterans Loan Center (Houston, TX) VFW Apply for Admission to Texas A&M University at Galveston TAMUG Office of Admissions Apply for Financial Aid Students receiving veterans’ educational benefits should also apply for financial aid by submitting the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Financial aid includes grants (need based free money), low interest student loans, and work-study (funding which pays a student’s wages as incentive for employment). For more information regarding financial aid, please visit www.tamug.edu/finaid. Upcoming TAMUG SVA Events Weekly Lunch Meeting When: Every Wednesday, 1130-1230 Where: Northen Banquet Room (Mary Moody Northen Student Center) Lunch provided Tell Somebody | Emergency Procedures & Sea Aggie Alert | Marketing and Communications Texas A&M University at Galveston P.O. Box 1675 Galveston, Texas 77553 Accessibility Equal Opportunity/Title IX Privacy and Security Legal Notices State Link Policy Annual Security Report Annual Fire Safety Report Campus Security Authority Form Contact us State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Statewide Search Texas Veterans Portal Open Records Texas CREW Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Texas Veterans Commission Contact Webmaster © 2022 all rights reserved. Texas A&M University at Galveston is a member of The Texas A&M University System