Materials Science and Engineering Academics Undergraduate Master’s Doctoral Research Featured Research Areas of Focus Centers + Institutes Shared Facilities MSE Collaborators People Faculty Graduate Group Staff Alumni Open Faculty Positions About Welcome from the Chair Fast Facts Visiting MSE What is MSE? News Events History Apply Make a Gift Search Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Apply Make a Gift Search Materials Science and Engineering A Department of the School of Engineering and Applied Science Academics Undergraduate Master’s Doctoral Research Featured Research Areas of Focus Centers + Institutes Shared Facilities MSE Collaborators People Faculty Graduate Group Staff Alumni Open Faculty Positions About Welcome from the Chair Fast Facts Visiting MSE What is MSE? News Events History The Krishna P. Singh Center for Nanotechnology features state-of-the-art equipment for nanoscale characterization, measurement, and fabrication, which are vital to the research and educational programs at Penn and are leveraged by partner institutions and local industry within the Mid-Atlantic region. Read More Featured News 2022 President's Sustainability Prize Winners Shoshana Weintraub, Sarah Beth Gleeson & Julia Yan, Seniors in Materials Science and Engineering, have received the President’s Sustainability Prize for their Senior Design Project, EcoSPIN. This Prize empowers students to undertake post-grad projects that make a positive difference in the world. Read More MSE 2022 Student Award Winners The Department of Materials Science and Engineering proudly celebrates its 2022 Student Award Winners. Read More Ritesh Agarwal Receives 2021-22 Heilmeier Award Ritesh Agarwal, Professor in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering, has been named the recipient of the 2021-22 George H. Heilmeier Faculty Award for Excellence in Research for his “groundbreaking contributions to materials for applications in integrated photonics and electronics.” Read More Penn Engineering Opens the Door for a New Class of Polymers That Can Improve Nanopatterning A team of Penn Engineers led by Karen Winey, Harold Pender Professor in the Departments of Materials Science and Engineering and Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, and Jinseok Park, a graduate student in her lab, has demonstrated how “multiblock” copolymers can produce exceptionally ordered patterns in thin films, achieving spacings smaller than three nanometers. Read More Uncovering unexpected properties in a complex quantum material A new study describes previously unexpected properties in a complex quantum material, findings that have implications for future quantum devices. The research was conducted by graduate student Harshvardhan Jog and professor Ritesh Agarwal of the Department of Materials Science and Engineering, professor Eugene Mele from the School of Arts & Sciences, and Luminita Harnagea from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research. Read More A New Makerspace for Materials Passion Projects With the pandemic disrupting in-person learning and lab time in 2020, Joshua Chen, junior in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering (MSE), got together with a group of classmates and dreamed up a student-run space where they could apply their newfound knowledge to creative projects. Working with MSE Lab Manager Steve Szewczyk after returning to campus, the group turned their proposed MatSci Makerspace into a reality. Read More MSE News Soft ‘Rotini’ Robots Navigate with a Snap 05.25.2022 | Read More Center for Engineering Mechanobiology 2.0: Developing ‘Mechanointelligence’ 05.22.2022 | Read More Congratulations to the Penn Engineering Graduates of 2022! 05.19.2022 | Read More View More MSE Events View More Announcement Penn Engineering COVID-19 Information Visit this page to get information for visitors, students, faculty and staff related to Penn Engineering's response to the coronavirus pandemic. View Page What is Materials Science? Understanding the behavior of materials has given rise to countless innovations and breakthroughs ranging from stone tools, which led to the discovery of fire in the prehistoric period, to silicon chips and silicon solar cells in our modern era. In a broad sense, materials science involves studying the synthesis, processing, structure, properties and performance of materials. Learn More Quick Actions Find a Person Find a building Visit Penn Engineering Report computing issues (CETS) Report facilities issues (EOS) Student health and safety concerns Contact Penn Public Safety (DPS) PENN ENGINEERING©2017 |UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA|SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE | DEPARTMENT OF MATERIALS SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 3231 Walnut Street | 200 LRSM | Philadelphia, PA 19104-6272 | 215-898-8337 Contact us with questions about admissions or academic programs | For website issues, email the webmaster Report accessibility issues and get help PENN ENGINEERING ©2017 UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE DEPARTMENT OF MATERIALS SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 3231 Walnut Street | 200 LRSM | Philadelphia, PA 19104-6391 | 215-898-7246 Contact us with questions about admissions or academic programs | For website issues, email the webmaster Report accessibility issues and get help