Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students Enrollment Verification Grades OverviewGPA and Grading ScaleGrade ChangeFAQ Transcripts OverviewOfficialUnofficialLambuth UniversityFAQ Reverse Transfer FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA NotificationRelease of Student Education Record Student Right-to-Know Information Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Overview Late/Retroactive Withdrawal Self Service Guides Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Students Withdrawing from the University Withdrawing from UofM When you decide to withdraw completely from the University, your first step should be to drop all of your courses online on or before the Last Day to Drop a Class for the term/part(s)-of-term. Select the appropriate Dates & Deadlines calendar to find this date. Do not make the mistake of thinking that you are withdrawing by simply not attending your classes. You must drop the classes you have enrolled in; otherwise, you may receive F grades and, possibly, owe the University money. When you have completed the drop process, please go back to your concise schedule to verify your drop (s) have processed. You should see a "DP" or a "WW" (depending when you dropped) next to the course(s) you dropped. Advising Usually, you do not have to talk to your advisor: simply go online and drop all of your courses. However, if you are a Scholarship Athlete, you must have permission from the Center for Athletic Academic Services to withdraw. Considerations Money - Satisfy any outstanding financial obligations you may have to the University. UofM will not release your transcript to another university if you still owe money here. So, make sure that you have paid all fines and fees that are due. If you have any question as to whether you owe the University any money, or why you do, contact University & Student Business Services. Contracts - If you have you signed a contract with Residence Life, be aware that you must contact that office about cancelling it. Please review your contract and contact Residence Life if you have questions. Equipment - Return any equipment--library books, instruments, uniforms, etc.--that belongs to the University. Again, if you fail to do so, a hold may be placed on your transcript. Financial Aid - Withdrawing can affect your eligibility for financial aid and your repayment schedule as well. If you are receiving financial aid, contact Student Financial Aid for clarification as to how withdrawal will affect your aid and repayment schedule. Lottery Scholarship - Once you receive a Lottery Scholarship, you must continue taking classes in both the Fall and Spring semesters of each academic year in order to maintain your eligibility. (You do not have to attend Summer terms to maintain a Lottery Scholarship.) If you do not maintain this continuous enrollment, you may lose your Lottery Scholarship. Contact the Scholarship Office for more information. Veterans Benefits - Withdrawing can affect your future eligibility for veterans benefits. If you are attending school through a VA program, contact the University's Veterans Educational Benefits & Certification Office for clarification as to how your benefits will be affected. Possible Refunds You may be entitled to a partial refund of your enrollment fees, depending on when you withdraw. Visit the University & Student Business Services website to determine the term's drop/withdrawal refund deadlines. Withdrawing After the Drop/Withdrawal Deadline It is possible to withdraw from a term after the drop deadline has passed; however, you must have approval to do so. Approval is granted only in those instances in which serious and unforeseen circumstances prevented you from completing that term's classes. See more information about late and retroactive withdrawals. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/11/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.