Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences Law, Societies, and Justice M253 Smith Hall 206-543-2396 Website Faculty Website lsjadv@uw.edu Law, Societies, and Justice is an interdisciplinary program committed to challenging students to understand the forms and functions of law in an increasingly globalized world. The program engages students in critical and comparative examination of legal institutions, principles, practices, and power around the world, with a particular emphasis on the role of rights in shaping contemporary political and legal conflicts. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Law, Societies, and Justice Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Law, Societies, and Justice Program of Study: Minor: Law, Societies, and Justice Minor in Law, Societies, Justice Graduate Programs Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Law And Society Studies Graduate Certificate In Law And Society Studies Undergraduate Programs Law, Societies, and Justice M253 Smith Hall 206-543-2396 lsjadv@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Law, Societies, and Justice Program Overview The Law, Societies, and Justice Program offers students opportunities to understand the complex roles of law in society. Law takes multiple forms and performs a wide array of important functions. At the same time, the work of law is shaped by numerous political, economic, social, cultural and geographic factors. Because of this, law “on the books” is not the same as law “in action.” Students in the LSJ major develop a deep appreciation for the variety of dynamics that shape the translation of law “on the books” to law “in action.” This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Law, Societies, and Justice Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: Courses that emphasize development of reading, writing, and especially analytical skills. Also, classes that provide background knowledge of modern world history, politics, institutions, and political theory. Admission Requirements Admission is capacity constrained, based on the following: GPA, with emphasis on grades in courses required for admission and for completion of major requirements (applicants accepted normally present cumulative UW GPAs above 2.50); personal statement representing the student's interest in and commitment to becoming a Law, Societies, and Justice major; other evidence of a commitment to the study of society, justice, and law. Admitted applicants often show evidence of success in social science courses. (See department website or academic adviser for recommended social science courses.) Minimum 2.50 cumulative UW GPA Two of the following courses: LSJ 200 or LSJ 363/POL S 363; LSJ 320/POL S 368, LSJ 321/ANTH 323, LSJ 322/JSIS A 324, or LSJ 329; LSJ 367/POLS S 367 or LSJ 366/JSIS B 366 One English composition course. (Further evidence of writing skills in the social sciences is encouraged.) Students may apply autumn, winter, or spring quarters. Application deadline: second Friday of the quarter. Students are notified of admission decisions by the sixth week of the quarter in which they apply. Satisfactory progress to degree may be considered when making admission decisions. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Law, Societies, and Justice Completion Requirements Minimum 53-55 credits Completion of four LSJ core courses (20 credits): one of LSJ 200 or LSJ 363/POL S 363 (5 credits) two of LSJ 320/POL S 368, LSJ 321/ANTH 323, LSJ 322/JSIS A 324, or LSJ 329 (10 credits) one of LSJ 367/POLS S 367 or LSJ 366/JSIS B 366 (5 credits) Three courses from one of the two designated subfields of study (comparative legal institutions; and rights) and two courses from the other subfield. See program website or advisers for list of approved courses. (23-25 credits) One LSJ departmental seminar. Departmental seminar cannot count simultaneously towards the LSJ subfield requirements. (5 credits) Completion of LSJ 401, which includes completion of 100 hours of volunteer experience or internship in a field related to LSJ. (5 credits) Of Special Note: The required departmental seminar emphasizes close reading of texts, active class discussions, and well-reasoned analytic writing, providing an opportunity to establish a close connection to faculty and other students, and to hone analytic and communicative skills. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Law, Societies, and Justice Program Overview The undergraduate minor in Law, Societies, and Justice provides an opportunity for students to develop a multidisciplinary liberal arts orientation to the study of law, social control, and justice, with particular emphasis on the studies of crime, comparative law, and human rights. This knowledge is gained through critical examination of the research literature and exchange of ideas and information with other students and faculty. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Law, Societies, Justice Minor in Law, Societies, Justice Completion Requirements 28-30 credits Two courses from the following: LSJ 320/POL S 368, or LSJ 321/ANTH 323, or LSJ 322/JSIS A 324; LSJ 363/POL S 363 or LSJ 200; LSJ 367/POL S 367 or LSJ 366/JSIS B 366; LSJ 375 or SOC 372. (10 credits) Two courses from each LSJ major subfield. (Major subfields are "comparative legal institutions" and "rights." Courses fulfilling subfield requirements are outlined on the departmental website and handouts. (18-20 credits). Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The Law, Societies, and Justice curriculum emphasizes the development of a range of analytic and communicative skills. Courses challenge students to develop the capacities to: read and interpret texts, including theoretical, empirical, and legal documents; comprehend and contrast arguments; develop and defend arguments; contrast theoretical arguments with empirical realities; assess contemporary practices of justice delivery against contemporary conceptions of justice. Students are required to express these skills in both verbal and written forms, through active class discussions and well-constructed writing assignments. Development of these skills assists students in a range of possible future endeavors, including a wide array of careers in law and justice. Instructional and Research Facilities: Students have access to the Political Science/Law, Societies, and Justice/School of International Studies writing center for most classes. Research opportunities are available on an individual and group basis with many professors. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: LSJ requires each of its majors to complete an internship for credit. Internship aims: (1) to provide students with insights into the workings of law in practice; (2) to scrutinize and 'test' some of the theories and concepts found in the literature against 'real world' practice; (3) to advance career development and goals, and (4) to provide 100 hours of local community service. Student assignments vary, and include government agencies, non-profit social service organizations, private law firms, rights-focused organizations, and other sites that focus on issues connected to LSJ coursework. It is the student's responsibility to find an internship, although the LSJ adviser can help find a suitable one. Students are required to write two papers according to specific guidelines for internship course credit. Many LSJ faculty regularly invite majors to assist them in the development and execution of research endeavors. These provide students an unparalleled opportunity to understand the challenges and mechanics of high-level research. Department Scholarships: The Stromberg Study Abroad Fund provides financial assistance to LSJ majors who pursue Study Abroad opportunities in socio-legal studies. Student Organizations/Associations: The Law, Societies, and Justice Student Association sponsors regular events of interest to LSJ students, including career panels and service events. Graduate Program Law, Societies, and Justice Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Law And Society Studies This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate In Law And Society Studies Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate In Law And Society Studies Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA