Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Degree Programs Certificate Programs Apply Now Take Action Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home BIT Programs Graduate Certificate Program in Business Project Management Graduate Certificate in Business Project Management Graduate certificate program in Business Project Management prepares individuals for project management team work and to be project managers with specific emphasis on the integration of information systems and business processes. This certificate program will address the importance of project management education and address the need for trained professionals in project management. The objectives of the certificate program include: Provide knowledge of the theoretical and practical concepts of managing IT projects, Understand and be able to perform project management activities, Understand and be able to use project management tools and techniques, Understand the role of project managers in the modern organization, Explore unique and particular challenges resulting from rapid technological change in dynamic business environments, and Exploring the role of the IS business professional in change management Admissions Requirements Same as College and University requirements. The certificate can be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the University. Non-degree seeking applicants must submit a brief (1-2 pages) statement that describes educational and work experiences in business, including their background in project management. GMAT and GRE scores are not required. However, acceptance into the certificate program is not an implied acceptance into any master's degree program. Program Requirements Please visit the Business Project Management entry in the graduate catalog for more information on these courses. This program requires completion of 12 semester credit hours, as follows: Required Courses One course from this group: MIS 7605 - Bus Database Systems ** COMP 7115 - Database Systems One course from this group: MIS 7610 - Sys Analysis & Design ** COMP 7012 - Fndtns/Software Engr COMP 8012 - Fndtns/Software Engr Both courses below: MIS 7671 - Project/Change Mgmt ** MIS 6672 - Project Mgmt Tools/Lead Graduation Requirements The student must complete all 4 required courses with an average grade of B (3.0) or higher, for a total of 12 credit hours. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit an Intent to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. For all graduation requirements visit here. Course Descriptions Please visit the Business Project Management entry in the graduate catalog. Contact Us To apply or for more information, please contact: Dr. Euntae "Ted" Lee Email | 901.678.2697 To apply, please visit the Graduate Admissions website. * Means that a class can be substituted out to replace that class, if given permission. ** Means the course can be offered online some semesters. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.