Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering East Asian Studies Home About Faculty Undergraduate EAS Concentration Overview of Courses DUG Info After Brown Language Placement Exams Graduate Events Links and Resources Give to EAS Site Navigation Home About Officers and Staff Contact Information Newsletter Faculty Visiting Faculty Affiliated Faculty Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Undergraduate EAS Concentration Honors Overview of Courses Courses for Concentration Credit Chinese East Asian Studies Japanese Korean DUG Info After Brown Language Placement Exams Graduate Graduate Students Events Upcoming Events EA Colloquium EAS Events The EAS Weekly Links and Resources EAS Fellowship Opportunities Internship and Work Opportunities Scholarly Resources Faculty Research and Travel Funding Opportunities Study Abroad Visitors to East Asian Studies Give to EAS Language Placement Exams Chinese Chinese Placement Test for Fall 2021 This is a short introduction to the Chinese Placement Test. Here you can find out whether you should take the test while you entertain the idea of taking a Chinese class. You will also get a general idea of what the test is going to look like.You can access the test by clicking on the links on the websites of the Department of East Asian Studies (link is below) or the Center for Language Studies. If you have any questions regarding the test, contact Yang Wang. Please find the Placement Test here! I. Do I need to take this test? ● No, if you have taken Chinese at Brown and received a passing grade. You will be able to take the next level up and do not need to take this test. ● No, if you have taken a Chinese course at Brown and attended an ‘accredited’ summer program in 2020. An ‘accredited’ summer program is normally one of the following: IUP (Inter-University Program), PiB (Princeton in Beijing), HBA (Harvard Beijing Academy), Middlebury College Summer Chinese School, any CET program in China or Taiwan, ICLP (in Taiwan), Chinese Language Center at National Cheng Kung University (in Taiwan). If you attended a program that is not listed here, please contact the Study Abroad Advisor, Prof. Wenhui Chen, who will help you evaluate your proficiency level. If you received a passing grade from one of the summer programs above, you will be able to skip a level and register for the next level up. However, you need to write to the instructor to receive an Override Code to do that. ● Yes, if you have never taken any Chinese courses at Brown but have received formal Chinese language training elsewhere. ● Yes, if you have never taken any Chinese courses at Brown but you come from a Chinese-speaking family or environment. II. What is the test like? ● The test will be administered through Google Forms. A Brown email address is required to log in. ● There will be six sections in the test. You can choose your preferred style between Traditional and Simplified characters. You have unlimited time to complete the test but once submitted, you cannot retake the test. No external assistance is allowed during the test. This includes any online resources, family, etc. 1. Section 1 is a background information questionnaire. 2. Section 2 is a vocabulary and grammar test. The questions will be rendered in the form of multiple-choice questions. 3. Section 3 is a reading comprehension test. You will be asked to read a few short paragraphs, and then answer multiple-choice questions. 4. Section 4 is a short essay. You can choose one of the two topics, and write a short essay of up to 500 characters. 5. Section 5 is an oral test via Zoom. The detailed schedule will be announced by email between 9/03 - 9/06. The oral interview will take 10-15 minutes. All the interviews will be scheduled on 9/07 between 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. If you have any schedule conflicts, please respond to the message as soon as you can. Korean Korean Placement Test for Fall 2021 Placement Test for Korean: FAQs 1. Who does NOT need to take a placement test? a) The so-called ‘true beginners’ (i.e. who has never learned Korean before or who does not have any background/prior knowledge in the Korean language). These students can register for KREA0100. b) Those students who completed a course at Brown with a passing grade and want to move up to the next level c) Those students who have completed a course with a passing grade at an institution in Korea (i.e. Brown approved or sponsored programs) during the summer (they need to contact [email protected] for credit approval and the placement in the next right level) 2. Who NEEDS to take the placement test? a) Those who have some background/prior knowledge in the language but are not sure which level will be the right fit b) Heritage speakers (i.e. coming from a Korean ethnic background) should take the test unless you have already taken a course at Brown 3. What is the format of the test? It will be a personal interview through Zoom during which students will be evaluated on their Korean proficiency in all four language modalities (i.e. speaking/listening, reading/writing). At the end of the interview, you will be asked to write a short essay on a given topic. You need to have something to write with (e.g. iPad, pen and paper). 4. Do I need to prepare for the test? No, you don’t need to. Just bring yourself. 5. When can I take this test? You should email [email protected] for an appointment. If you have any other or further questions, please also contact Prof. Wang at the same email address. Japanese Japanese Placement Test for Fall 2022- Spring 2023 こんにちは！ Thank you for your interest in studying Japanese with us here at Brown University. Please visit the placement test site. If you have further questions, please contact Suga sensei. We would like to ask all incoming students to take the placement test before the semester begins. Vietnamese Thanks for your interest in taking Vietnamese at Brown University! We would like to ask all incoming students to take the placement test the week of August 22nd. The test is about 60 minutes long and includes three parts. ● Part 1: Survey (10 minutes recommended). Part 1 is a short questionnaire that asks you about your background in the language(s) you speak or have learned. ● Part 2: Multiple choice questions (20 minutes recommended). Part 2 contains 30 multiple-choice questions designed to assess your proficiency in Vietnamese. ● Part 3: Essay question (30 minutes recommended). Part 3 asks you to write an essay with a length of 250-350 words to a question prompt. Please make sure that you handwrite your essay, take a photo and upload it to this Google Form. Once you have completed (or nearly completed) these three tasks, please make an appointment for a Zoom interview using this link. Interviews will be given between August 27, 30 and 31. Please finish these three steps by the time of interview. Thank you and I am looking forward to seeing you soon. Cô Trang Undergraduate EAS Concentration Overview of Courses DUG Info After Brown Language Placement Exams East Asian Studies East Asian Studies Brown University Box 1850 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2778 Fax: 401-863-2659 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top