Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Department of Orthopaedics Fellowship Programs Pediatrics Pediatrics The goal of the Pediatric Orthopaedic Fellowship at Brown University is to provide clinical training in all aspects of orthopaedic care for the pediatric and adolescent patient. During the one-year experience, the Fellow can expect training in general pediatric orthopaedics, spine surgery including deformity surgery and early onset scoliosis, sports medicine/arthroscopy, complex hip pathology, and pediatric orthopaedic trauma. The fellowship is based out of Hasbro Children’s Hospital in Providence, RI, which serves as the only tertiary care children’s hospital in the State and is the primary referral center for patients in Rhode Island, Southeastern Massachusetts, and Eastern Connecticut. The Fellow will work closely with 3 fellowship-trained pediatric orthopaedic surgeons and receive a broad exposure to operative and office-based pediatric orthopaedics. The Fellow will also be part of a team that includes Brown University Orthopaedic residents and will participate in all aspects of clinical care, play an active role in teaching residents and medical students, and contribute to research projects based on his or her clinical interests. Program Faculty: Aristides I. Cruz, Jr. MD, MBA Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics Director, Pediatric Orthopaedics Fellowship Aristides I. Cruz, Jr. MD is a Pediatric Orthopaedic surgeon specializing in the treatment of orthopaedic conditions in children and adolescents. His areas of interest include traumatic injuries and fracture care, treatment of pediatric and adolescent sports related conditions, and general pediatric orthopaedics. Dr. Cruz obtained his undergraduate degree from Tufts University in Medford, MA where he graduated summa cum laude with a degree in Biopsychology and Classical Studies. During his time at Tufts University, Dr. Cruz was captain of both the Cross Country and Track & Field teams, obtained All-Conference, and All-New England honors, was an Academic All-American as well as a member of the Phi Beta Kappa honor society. He went on to obtain his medical degree from Tufts University School of Medicine in Boston, MA where he graduated with Alpha Omega Alpha honors. Dr. Cruz completed his residency in Orthopaedic Surgery at Yale-New Haven Hospital/Yale University in New Haven, CT. After residency, he went on to serve in the United States Air Force as an Orthopaedic Surgeon where he was honored with multiple awards including the Air Force Commendation medal. After being honorably discharged from the Air Force, Dr. Cruz furthered his training, completing a fellowship in Pediatric Orthopaedic Surgery at The Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. Craig P. Eberson, MD Associate Professor of Orthopaedics Chief, Division of Pediatric Orthopaedics Dr. Eberson attended college at the University of Pennsylvania before completing his medical degree at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School in his native state of New Jersey. Dr. Eberson finished his orthopaedic residency at Brown University. He furthered his education and training with a fellowship in Pediatric and Adult Orthopaedic Trauma at Brown University followed by fellowship-training at the renowned Texas Scottish Rite Hospital for Children in Dallas, TX. At Scottish Rite Hospital, Dr. Eberson served as the Edwards Fellow in Pediatric Orthopaedics and Scoliosis. Dr. Eberson is an Associate Professor of Orthopaedics at the Brown Medical School and an Attending Physician at Hasbro Children's Hospital and Rhode Island Hospital. He is the chief of Pediatric Orthopaedics, and is the author of numerous book chapters, scientific articles, and national presentations related to the orthopaedic care of children. His current research interests include the treatment of spinal disorders via a minimally invasive approach, improving the success of limb-lengthening procedures, and the treatment of pediatric musculoskeletal injuries. On the personal side, Dr. Eberson and his wife Denise, a pediatrician, have three sons and live in Cumberland. In his free time, Dr. Eberson is active in coaching flag football, soccer and baseball. He also enjoys skiing, fly fishing, exercising and barbecuing. Jonathan R. Schiller, MD Associate Professor of Orthopaedics Dr. Schiller specializes in pediatric orthopaedics, specifically in the treatment of pediatric fractures, limb deformity and lengthening, scoliosis, and adolescent and young adult hip problems. Dr. Schiller also specializes in hip arthroscopy. His current research interests include improving success of limb lengthening procedures, pediatric fracture management, scoliosis, and treatment of the adolescent and young adult hip problems. Dr. Schiller completed the Dorothy and Bryant Edwards Fellowship in Pediatric Orthopaedics and Scoliosis at Texas Scottish Rite Hospital for Children in Dallas, TX. Educational Requirements The Brown University Pediatric Orthopaedic Fellowship curriculum is designed to provide the Fellow an exposure to a variety of topic related to Pediatric Orthopaedics and build upon the foundation attained during Orthopaedic Residency. Indications Conference (weekly) We conduct indications conference (pre/post-op conference) on a weekly basis on Wednesday mornings after Orthopaedic Grand rounds. Conference is scheduled from 8:00 am – 9:00 am and is attended by three Pediatric Orthopaedic attending surgeons, the Pediatric Orthopaedic Fellow, our Pediatric Orthopaedic Nurse Practitioner, and the two Brown University Orthopaedic Residents on service (in addition to rotating medical students and allied health professionals). The conference reviews interesting or pertinent cases from the week before as well as upcoming cases. The goal of the conference is to review complex or interesting cases for the benefit of the Fellow, review common Pediatric Orthopaedic conditions for the benefit of the Residents, and review indications for upcoming cases. Indications conference is geared towards in-depth learning of a variety of Pediatric Orthopaedic conditions with the Pediatric Orthopaedic Fellow responsible for moderating the conference. The Brown Orthopaedic residents will prepare cases for review (with guidance from the Fellow). The Fellow will lead discussion on the topics/cases selected with the attending physicians available to further the learning experience. Morbidity & Mortality Conference (M&M) (monthly) M&M or Quality Assurance Conference is held on a monthly basis. It is department wide and is organized, moderated, and run by the Brown University Department of Orthopaedics Quality Assurance (QA) Officer. All cases from the prior month are reviewed. Pediatric case lists with associated complications are submitted on a monthly basis by the chief resident assigned to the Pediatric Orthopaedic rotation for that month. Pediatric specific cases are selected for department wide review at the discretion of the QA Officer and are presented at QA conference as selected. Orthopaedic attending attendance at these conferences is mandatory which is department policy. Pediatric specific cases are also be reviewed on a regular basis by the attending staff, the Fellow and residents on the service and are included for presentation and review during the weekly indications conference as needed. Journal Club (quarterly) Pediatric Orthopaedic journal club occurs once every quarter (four times per year) and is part of the Brown Orthopaedic residency journal club educational curriculum. Pediatric Orthopaedic pertinent articles are selected for review by the pediatric orthopaedic attendings and Fellow. Four to five articles are selected for review and are discussed with the pediatric orthopaedic attendings, Fellow and all Brown University Residents in attendance. The article is presented by an assigned junior resident. The Pediatric Orthopaedic Fellow and attendings lead and moderate the discussion about the article to provide deeper insight on the pertinent issues raised in the article. Pediatric Core Curriculum Conferences (bimonthly [2x/month] on average) Pediatric Orthopaedic core curriculum conferences are included as a part of the Brown University Orthopaedic Residency core lecture series. Pediatric specific topics are discussed on a rotating annual schedule and include topics on: general pediatric orthopaedics, trauma, spine, hand, and sports. The Pediatric Fellow will prepare and present lectures on selected topics. There are 10-12 pediatric specific topics distributed throughout the academic year and the Fellow will be responsible for presenting 2-4 topics of their choosing (within the guidelines of the residency core curriculum). Once per residency rotation (every 2 months), the Pediatric Orthopaedic Fellow will also be responsible for presenting a lecture on a pertinent Pediatric Orthopaedic topic. This lecture will add to the Pediatric Orthopaedic knowledge and experience of residents on the service. Proposed change: Pediatric Orthopaedic weekly core curriculum conference to be added once per week (time and location TBD). The Fellow will be responsible for preparing a lecture geared towards Orthopaedic residents and medical students on common pediatric orthopaedic conditions. The POSNA Study Guide will be used to guide topic selection. Research Requirements The Fellow will be responsible for conducting at least one research project during the academic year. Ideally, the project will be of the Fellow’s own design and conducted under the guidance of a faculty mentor. The Fellow will also have the opportunity to contribute to research projects in progress. The goal of the research requirement is to provide the Fellow with experience in hypothesis generation, study design, study coordination and implementation, data analysis, abstract presentation, and manuscript preparation/submission to a peer-reviewed journal. The Fellow will be required to present his/her research project in abstract format at the end of the academic year to the Pediatric Orthopaedic Faculty. To support the Fellow, Brown University Department of Orthopaedics and the Rhode Island Orthopaedic Foundation has research support staff to assist with IRB preparation and statistical analysis. The Fellow will be responsible for applying for research grants (both internal and external grants) if applicable to their project. Learn more: Why Brown Rhode Island Current Fellow Year Fellow Medical School Prior Fellowship 2020-2021 Position open Past Fellows Year Fellow Residency Program Current Institution 2019-2020 Vache Hambardzumyan, MD Yerevan, Armenia Doha, Dubai 2015-2016 Heather Hansen, MD University of Saskatchewan Ortho Montana Billings, MT 2013-2014 Jeremy Doak, MD University at Buffalo University at Buffalo Buffalo, NY 2012-2013 Viorel Raducan, MD Montreal University Marshall Health Huntington, WV 2011-2012 Eric Lincoln, DO Medical College of Georgia 1974-2019 2005-2006 Elizabeth Weber, MD Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center Gillette Children’s Specialty Healthcare Minneapolis, MN Application Process Applications to the Pediatric Orthopaedic Fellowship are through the SF Match. All application deadlines will adhere to the SF Match schedule. Details are provided on the SF Match website: https://sfmatch.org/ Interview dates are determined yearly and will typically be held in February. Please address inquiries to: Ms. Eryn Alexandre 1 Kettle Point Ave. East Providence, RI 02914 Tel: 401-330-1430 Fax: 401-277-0799 Email: [email protected] Home About Us News Faculty Residency Program Fellowship Programs Adult Reconstruction Foot and Ankle Hand Pediatrics Shoulder Elbow Spine Sports Medicine Trauma Research Laboratories Brown Medical Students MS4 Visiting Students Diversity and Inclusion Print this Page Share this Page The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift Quick Links University Orthopaedics