Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search News & Information News & Information News Stories UWT in the News Podcast: Paw'd Defiance Subscribe MyUW Map Tools News & Information Home Making a Connection May 27, 2022 UW Tacoma senior Leticia Barreto embraced campus life and opened up a world of opportunities. Read More Gold Star spouse McClintock keynotes remembrance ceremony May 23, 2022 Alexandra McClintock, '22, will speak at UW Tacoma's 2022 Memorial Day Remembrance ceremony. Her husband, SFC Matthew McClintock, was killed in 2016 while serving in Afghanistan. Labor Solidarity Project Hosts Seminar on 'Revolutionary Nonviolence' May 16, 2022 The event will feature a screening of a documentary on Rev. James Lawson, spiritual advisor to MLK, plus a discussion of nonviolent organizing and labor education by Dr. Kent Wong of UCLA, and local labor leaders commenting on the state of organizing in the northwest. Dream Within Reach May 10, 2022 UW Tacoma senior Maryam Al Darraji's dream to become a surgeon took her from Iraq to Jordan to Kent to UW Tacoma. Cynthia Requa, '11, '21, Named CHEA 2022 Fellow May 6, 2022 Requa, a graduate of the School of Education's doctoral program, will provide expertise to one of the nation's leading higher education accreditation advocacy organizations. More Stories UW Tacoma in the News Secrets of Success: 2022 South Sound Business writers Madison Miller, Blake Peterson, John Stearns, Stephanie Quiroz, and Hailee Wickersham interview successful South Sound professionals to discover how they overcame personal challenges and obstacles to achieve success. South Sound Business - Online Edition - April 25, 2022 Economic and policy experts argue against repealing the capital gains tax Nine economic and policy experts, including UW Tacoma's Katie Baird, Anna Lovasz and Tim Scharks, call on voters to reject I-1929, which would repeal the capital gains tax established by the legislature in 2021. Washington State Wire - April 18, 2022 Inslee appoints Jon Scott to Snohomish County Superior Court Jon Scott, '96, most recently served as a senior trial attorney with the Snohomish County Public Defender Association. Washington Governor Jay Inslee News - April 15, 2022 It just got much easier to access Public Service Loan Forgiveness Cites the experience of and quotes alumna Anneliese Simons, '07, master of social work, who recently successfully got access to the loan forgiveness program. The Stand - April 14, 2022 UW Tacoma Milgard Hall: A new home for innovation The region's economic development agency describes Milgard Hall, UW Tacoma's newest building project. Economic Development Board for Tacoma-Pierce County - April 7, 2022 UW Tacoma Professor Awarded Grant to Address Youth Mental Health Chieh (Sunny) Cheng, of the School of Nursing &amp; Healthcare Leadership, received pilot funding from the UW Population Health Initiative to develop and test behavioral health promotion approaches in Tacoma Public Schools. South Sound Business - April 5, 2022 'The people are fighting.' Ukrainian students in Tacoma feel weight of war at home Illia Meresenko, who transferred to UW Tacoma from Edmonds Community College to study information technology, is from Ukraine. He describes the impact of Russia's war on himself and his family. The News Tribune - April 5, 2022 To Revive a River, Restore Its Liver Associate Professor Ed Kolodziej led a team that identified chemicals present in Seattle's Thornton Creek, and demonstrated the effectiveness of the creek's restored hyporheic zone at removing those chemicals. Scientific American - April 1, 2022 Federal Way's Director of Economic Development Tim Johnson resigns The article notes Tim Johnson's involvement in The HUB: Federal Way Higher Education Center, a collaboration among UW Tacoma, Federal Way, Federal Way Public Schools and Highline College. Federal Way Mirror - April 1, 2022 New restaurants: Birria ramen, wood-fired pizza, distillery tasting room and a beer bar This roundup of new Tacoma eateries includes Crisp Greens, a UW Tacoma tenant on Pacific Avenue. The News Tribune - April 1, 2022 More in the News Paw'd Defiance A new podcast about all things Tacoma Subscribe Honoring 2022 Business Leadership Award Winners May 5, 2022 Read about Victoria Woodards, Maya Mendoza-Exstrom, Constance Trufant, Douglas Reed, Miriam Barnett and Randy Rushforth, recipients of the 20th annual Milgard School Business Leadership Awards. Rain, Making It May 2, 2022 A traumatic brain injury threatened to derail Rain Wilson's college career; but then she got the support she needed and she is now succeeding. AERA Recognizes Dr. Robin Starr Zape-tah-hol-ah Minthorn April 25, 2022 Minthorn has received the 2022 Exemplary Contributions to Practice-Engaged Research Award. Happiness at Last April 22, 2022 Live theater returns to UW Tacoma with "The Happiest Song Plays Last," in a collaboration with Tacoma Little Theater and Toy Boat Theatre. Under Construction April 15, 2022 Tacoma native Lorne Arnold is helping build UW Tacoma's new civil engineering program Got a FinTech idea? Win $10,000 April 14, 2022 Competitors in the second annual statewide FinTech Incubator Challenge can submit their applications and pitch decks until May 17. All Stories Contact News & Information email uwtnews@uw.edu phone_iphone 123-456-7890 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy