Skip to content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Mechanical Engineering Menu Toggle Search ME Publications ME Faculty Directory ME Staff Directory About About The Department Accreditation Chair’s Office Department Organization History Industry Advisory Council More Resources Finance Service Delivery Governance Strategic Plans News Events Contact Faculty Directory Staff Directory Mechanical Engineering 2043 Black Engineering 2529 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2030 isume@iastate.edu 515-294-1423 phone Future Students Undergraduate Resources Degrees and Programs Internships/Co-ops ME Learning Teams ME Student Orgs Scholarships Study Abroad Graduate Resources Admissions Application Process Degrees and Programs Faculty and Research Funding and Assistantships ME Graduate Student Organization More Resources Course Catalog Diversity Equity and Inclusion Laptop Requirement FAQs Life at ISU Our Facilities Virtual ME Tour Current Students Undergraduate Resources Advising Capstone Degrees and Programs Independent Study Scholarships Graduate Resources Courses by Focus Area Degrees and Programs Handbooks and Forms ME 600 Seminars More Resources ASC-Howe Shuttle Classroom Safety Course Catalog Laptop Requirement FAQs Faculty & Staff Faculty Faculty Directory Faculty Tools Governance Document (PDF) Staff Staff Directory Staff Responsibilities More Resources Department Organizational Chart (PDF) College and University Resources ISU Sign-Ons (Email, CyBox, WorkDay, etc.) Tools from Human Resources Research Focus Areas Computational Sciences Energy Fluids Health Multi-scale Engineering Systems Infrastructure Institutes and Centers Faculty Areas of Expertise (PDF) More Resources Library Research Guide Proposal/Pre-Award Flowchart Theses and Dissertations Social Context Corporate Alumni Alumni Submissions Donate to ME Engineering Alumni Resources ISU Alumni Association ISU Foundation Social Media GREAT CHALLENGES NEED GREAT MINDS. SOME SEARCH FOR ANSWERS WE FIND THEM. FOR EXCELLENCE. ENGINEERED Making a World of Difference in the World’s Problems The Department of Mechanical Engineering at Iowa State University is where innovation thrives and the impossible is made possible. This is where your passion for problem-solving and hands-on learning can make a real difference in our world. Whether you’re helping improve the environment, creating safer automobiles, or advancing medical technologies, and athletic performance, the Department of Mechanical Engineering gives you the tools and talent to blaze your own trail to an amazing career. USE YOUR HEAD AND YOUR HANDS When it comes to hands-on learning, we’re all hands on deck. You’ll hit the ground running as you work alongside a diverse group of highly skilled professors and wicked-smart classmates to create tomorrow’s breakthroughs today. Along with a formal curriculum, you’ll be engaged in research projects, labs, and informal clubs working directly on groundbreaking engineering projects applying the principles you’ve learned firsthand. Explore Our Facilities Apply to Iowa State What does a mechanical engineer do? As a mechanical engineer, you’re able to make a real difference for a happier, healthier world. Find Out More Featured News Using video game-based tools to teach STEM A mechanical engineering (ME) alum, Christopher Whitmer, hopes to engage the next generation of scientists and engineers by using a video game interface to teach them STEM concepts and methods. Applying ME concepts to create a metaverse After completing his studies at the end of the Spring 2022 semester, Yi Zheng, a Ph.D. candidate in mechanical engineering (ME), will spend two years serving as a postdoc research scientist for the Facebook Reality Lab in Seattle. ME student designs, fabricates outdoor desks to reduce spread of COVID-19 Juliana “Jana” Camaioni, senior in mechanical engineering (ME), answered the call when the ME department was looking for ways to increase outdoor seating options to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Developing a skilled workforce using advanced learning technologies A team of interdisciplinary researchers at Iowa State University, including ME’s Eliot Winer, will study ways that they can utilize digital teaching technologies to effectively develop a robust workforce that will serve Iowa’s rural communities. Lights. Instruments. Action! The Iowa State University Cyclone Football ‘Varsity’ Marching Band is performing during the 2018 Band Extravaganza. The drumline is equipped with lights that flash different colors every time they hit their drums and the crowd goes wild over the spectacle. This is when Jacob Schmieder, a trumpet player in the band, came up with a business idea. Upcoming Events University Holiday, Offices Closed and Classes Recessed May 30, 2022 Coursework Begins, Summer Session II Courses June 13, 2022 University Holiday, Offices Closed and Classes Recessed July 4, 2022 All Events All News Schedule an Advising Appointment Schedule an Appointment How to Schedule (PDF) Capstone Sponsorship Information Learn More Summer Admin Office Hours Monday to Friday 7:30 to 11:50 a.m., 12:30 to 4 p.m. Quick Links Advising Appointments Degree Planning Degree Programs Faculty Directory Staff Directory Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information Loading...