Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Home Support Engineering As our world grapples with the COVID-19 pandemic, the Columbia Engineering community of alumni, parents, faculty and friends has come together, committed, to helping our students amid unprecedented challenges⁠—truly embodying our vision of Engineering for Humanity. Below are common vehicles used to make gifts. Please contact us for more information specific to your situation. Ways to Give Online Giving online by credit card is a quick and easy option. By Recurring Monthly Gift Donors can set up a recurring charge to a credit card on a monthly or quarterly basis. This is a great way to increase the impact of a gift and avoid the pressure of waiting until the last minute. Visit our giving page or call (646) 745-8417. By Check While we continue to work remotely due to COVID-19, please note that our process for receiving checks has shifted. Please read below for instructions on mailing checks. To send checks via USPS: Columbia University - Gift Systems P.O. Box 1523 New York, NY 10008 To send checks via Fedex, UPS, or a similar carrier: CheckAlt/Klik 711 Executive Blvd. Suite H Batching Department - 1523 Valley Cottage, NY 10989 *Always be sure to note “1523” in the address - this will ensure it reaches Columbia. To ensure timely and accurate processing, please include instructions for your gift: the school being supported (i.e. Engineering), where the check should be directed (i.e. Engineering Annual Fund), names of people being honored/remembered, etc. Please contact Cameron Maglio at [email protected] with any questions. By Securities Transfer Making a gift through a transfer of appreciated stocks or bonds are a popular way to make a gift. If you are considering a donation of $1,000 or more, there are many tax advantages to giving securities. For more information and complete instructions, contact us via email at [email protected]. By Wire Transfer Columbia accepts wire transfers. For more information, call (646) 745-8417 or email us at [email protected]. Gift Planning Some of the most impactful gifts individuals make usually take advantage of a planned giving strategy. This includes bequests, charitable trusts, gift annuities, or including Columbia as a beneficiary on a retirement or life insurance plan. Planned gifts allow donors to take sizeable income, capital gains and estate deductions on their taxes. They can provide income for you and your family for life, and leaves a legacy that fits your philanthropic goals. For more information, contact Christina Vellios at [email protected] or (646) 745-8416, or visit giftplanning.columbia.edu. Matching Gifts Not sure if your company matches? Use our quick lookup tool. International Gifts – Hong Kong and United Kingdom Donors in Hong Kong may give to Columbia and receive tax benefits through our Columbia University Hong Kong Fund registered under Section 88 of the Inland Revenue Ordinance. For those based in the United Kingdom, Columbia established the Columbia UK Fund Limited to help donors with tax relief. If you pay UK income taxes, your gift to this fund (in Sterling, US Dollars, or Euros) is eligible for Gift Aid relief, which increases the donor’s philanthropic impact. For more information, see our international gifts page. Gifts of Other Assets The best way to make your gift might be donating real estate, tangible personal property, or other assets, including gifts in kind and closely held stocks, which often require special handling. For more information contact Christina Vellios at [email protected] or (646) 745-8416. Areas to Support Donor Recognition Student Giving Make a Gift 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact