Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Leadership Community Engagement Fraternity & Sorority Life Student Organizations Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Student Engagement Registered Student Organizations Join an RSOStart/Manage an RSOAccountability StatusHazing PreventionAdvise an RSOPLATiger ZoneCorq App Spirit Initiatives Student Event Allocation What is SEA?How to Submit a ProposalUpcoming Events Student Activities Council About SAC SAC Committees Event Calendar Join SAC Fraternities & Sororities About FSAPotential MembersMember ResourcesInformation for ParentsInterfraternity Council (IFC)National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC)Panhellenic Council (PAN) Involvement Ambassadors Report a Concern about a Student Take Action Register for Recruitment Register for Frosh Camp Tiger Zone About Us Follow SLI Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Student Involvement - SAC Events Student Activities Council Events For a full list of events, please visit the SAC TigerZone Page. SAC TigerZone Page> [KICKOFF SUNDAY] October 18 Aux Cord Wars | 7:00 PM Do you have the best taste in music on campus? Looking to show off your skills? Join the Student Activities Council for Aux Cord Wars - a digital DJ battle where the students are the DJs. The best student DJ's will recieve a cash prize! Aux Cord Wars > [MUSIC MONDAY] October 19 Spotify Playlist | All Day Kickoff your homecoming week by getting into the Tiger Spirit! This University of Memphis Playlist is full of Tiger Gameday favorites, songs performed by Memphis Alumni, and songs about your favorite city. Check out WUMR 91.7 FM | All Day Did you know the UofM has its very radio station? WUMR has been the University of Memphis broadcasting outlet since 1979, originally labeled WSMS-FM 91.7 carrying the Memphis State call letters. The call letters changed to WUMR U 92-FM when Memphis State became the University of Memphis. An element of the station's mission is to train student volunteers in broadcasting and this year they announced they will be joining forces with outstanding community and campus partners Crosstown Concourse and The Daily Memphian. Listen Now > Student Concert | 7:00 PM Join student artists Jalan Veasley, Compton McMurry, and Kelsey Taylor for an evening you will not soon forget. This show is produced by student producer Drew Richter and will be premiering at 7:00 PM on YouTube live. Link coming soon. [TRIVIA TUESDAY] October 20 Tiger Trivia Tuesday | 7:00 PM Join us for a game night of virtual UofM-themed Trivia! No need to be an expert on UofM history because this game will include multiple choice answers. Tiger Trivia Tuesday > [WORK OUT WEDNESDAY] October 21 Virtual 5K | All Day The concept of a virtual race is quite similar to a classic road race. The only difference is no in-person running! You can run in your hometown, street, park, treadmill, alone, with friends, basically however you want! Similar to a classic race event, there are three steps to participate: 🎟 Join In: Print your virtual bib and invite your friends to get sweaty! 👟 Sweat: Run, walk, skip or saunter 3.1 miles. You can run on your favorite exercise app to track your time and distance. 🎉 Celebrate: Once you achieved your goal, post on Social Media with #TigersHOMEcoming2020 Download Virtual 5K Bib > Check out the New and Improved Rec Center | All Day Scheduled to open this Spring, the new Center for Wellness and Fitness was designed with the whole student in mind, integrating academic classrooms/learning, a demonstration/teaching kitchen, a healthy food café, fitness and fellowship under one roof. Virtual Tour > Smoothie Break with Health Sciences | TBD Join the Health Teaching Kitchen as they show you how to make a delicious smoothie to rest and refuel for your next workout. Smoothie Break > Live Workouts with the UofM Rec Center | 4:00 PM & 6:00 PM Cool down from your run by joining Yoga with Steve at 4 p.m. on Facebook Live. If 3.1 mile isn’t enough, get your sweat on again during Fitness Kickboxing with Linda at 6 p.m. on Instagram Live and Facebook Live. Facebook Live > Instagram Live > Sip N Paint | 7:00 PM Join Student Activities Council and Pinot's Pallet for a virtual sip 'n' paint class where we will be walking students through how to paint your very own Tiger. Students can pick up painting kits from various locations on campus including the University Center, Centennial Place, and the Living Learning Center starting Monday, October 18, 2020. Sip N Paint > [TIGER BINGO THURSDAY] October 22 Tiger Bingo Thursday | 7:00 PM Join us for a game night of virtual UofM-themed bingo! Hosted by alumnus Kevin Cerrito (BA '05). Tiger Bingo Thursday > [FRIDAY MOVIE NIGHT] October 23 Drive in Movie on Tiger Lane | 7:00 PM Join the UofM Homecoming committee for a free drive in movie at the Liberty Bowl. All attendees must have a ticket and tickets are free. Free Tickets > Movie @ Home | 7:00 PM Can't make it to the Liberty Bowl? Check out our recommendations for movies that are set in or were filmed in Memphis, and also some that feature UofM Alumni. There are several ways to stream films across distances, and this is a helpful article from The Verge that provides some options. Our movie suggestions range from the lighthearted to the serious, so there is something for everyone. The Firm (1993) Walk the Line (2005) Uncorked (2020) Christmas at Graceland (2018) Great Balls of Fire (1989) Hustle and Flow (2005) Black Panther (2018) [GAMEDAY] October 24 Virtual Tailgate Tiger Lane is going virtual for the 2020 Memphis Football Season! Register your group’s virtual tent via Zoom to secure your spot.  Socially distance with your friends, enjoy some drinks, cook up your favorite tailgate cuisine, and win prizes! Sign Up Now > Kroger Homegating Kroger has at-home tailgating ideas to help make game day special for the whole family. Plus, you’ll find all the fresh foods, drinks and recipe ideas you’ll need to cheer the Tigers on to victory. Recipes > Memphis Tigers vs. Temple | TBD This year the Memphis Tigers are taking on the Temple Owls for Homecoming. Game time, network and streaming options will be updated closer to kickoff. During the game Parent & Family Services will recognize the Family of the Year and the Student Government Association will recoginze the 2020-2021 Mr. & Ms. UofM! [SUNDAY FUNDAY] October 25 Brunch with Kemmons Wilson Cullinary School | TBD Pour yourself some orange juice or coffee and cook brunch live with Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management. Cheer on UofM Alumni in the NFL Once a Tiger, always a Tiger! Settle in for a relaxing day of NFL Football featuring all your favorite former Memphis Football Stars! Dontari Poe, Dallas Cowboys Tony Pollard, Dallas Cowboys Darrell Henerson, LA Rams Antonio Gibson, Washington Football Team Patrick Taylor, Green Bay Packers Jake Elliot, Philadelphia Eagles Genard Avery, Philadelphia Eagles Stephen Gostkowski, Tennessee Titans Bobby McCain, Miami Dolphins Arthur Maulet, NY Jets Bryce Huff, NY Jets Chris Claybrooks, Jacksonville Jaguars Anthony Miller, Chicago Bears #TigersHOMEcoming2020 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/27/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.