Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Academics Planning Your Academic Program Planning Your Academic Program Juris Doctor Degree Self-Audit Checklist This checklist is only for students who were admitted to the law school fall 2020 or later. Students who were admitted in fall 2018 or fall 2019 should refer to this checklist. Students should compare their unofficial transcripts (accessed through my.SMU) to ensure they are on track for graduation. If you have any questions about your degree progress, please contact the Law School Registrar at lawregis@smu.edu. Juris Doctor - Academic Advising Guide This guide offers advice on academic requirements, course selection and registration. Experiential Learning Handout All Juris Doctor students who must satisfy the “Experiential Learning” requirement. This means that they must complete one or more experiential courses totaling at least six credit hours. This handout explains how students may satisfy the EL requirement and answers frequently asked questions. Registration Guide This handout walks you through the process to register for courses on my.SMU Public Service Graduation Requirement All Juris Doctor students are required to complete 30 hours of law-related public service (pro bono legal work) in order to graduate. This guide answers questions about the requirement and covers the necessary steps to complete the hours. Courses and Resources in Different Practice Areas These guides are for students who have an interest in a particular area of practice. They identify courses and other resources in the following areas: Antitrust Law Bankruptcy Law Business and Corporate Law Civil Litigation & Dispute Resolution Commercial and Consumer Law Criminal Law Energy, Environment and Natural Resources Estate Planning Family Law Health Law Immigration Law Intellectual Property International and Comparative Law Labor and Employment Law Real Estate Law Tax Law The information within each section (listed in the above links) should help you select courses and other activities that will help you develop expertise in the relevant practice area. It will also suggest a logical sequence of courses, so that you can build from foundational courses that provide an overview of the area to those that require a high degree of knowledge and sophistication. Each section lists any clinical courses that are especially appropriate for practice in those areas. Note that students generally should not take all of the courses listed, as that could result in a kind of over-specialization that deprives you of the broad foundation described above. The guides also suggest related courses that can provide information and skills that can enhance your practice. In addition, the guides identify externships (field experiences for law school credit), and public service opportunities (that satisfy your public service requirement for graduation) to enhance your skills and understanding. In addition to the pre-approved public service placements, students can seek approval of new placements that meet the program’s requirements. The guides also identify opportunities to get involved with others who share your interests. When there are student organizations for those interested in a particular area, those are listed as well. Students can also network with attorneys who practice in their fields of interest by becoming involved with the relevant sections of the Dallas Bar Association and Tarrant County Bar Association. See both the Dallas Bar Association and the Tarrant County Bar Association for association and activities information. Uniform Bar Examination The Uniform Bar Examination (UBE) is administered twice a year (February and July) over the course of two days. This guide covers general information about the UBE and provides answers to frequently asked questions about the exam. This handout provides recommendations on which bar courses students may want to take and how many. Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Resources Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Apply Request info Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram