Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Career Center Main Navigation Students Show Extended Virtual Career Center Titan Connection: Jobs & Internships Workshops & Information Sessions Networking Career Fairs & Expos Resumes & Cover Letters Interviewing Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program Career & Major Exploration Graduate & Professional School College Specific Resources Online Recorded Webinars I Am First Titan Career Ambassadors Resources for Diverse Populations Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Alumni Show Extended Alumni Career Services Help a Titan Hire a Titan Recruiters Show Extended Post Positions On Titan Connection Recruiting Calendar On-Campus Interviewing (OCI) Connect With Students Employer Partnerships Learn About Our Diverse Students Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Faculty & Staff Show Extended Meet your Career Specialist Career Center Commercial (4 minutes) Request a Workshop Get a Titan Connection Account Post a Position Faculty Development Certificate Workshops & Info Sessions Career Fairs & Expos Online Career Guide Reports Schedule Appointment About Us Blog Post Positions On Titan Connection Recruiting Calendar Virtual Campus Interviewing (OCI) Connect With Students Employer Partnerships Learn About Our Diverse Students Titan Takeover: Career Education Program Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships your page does not support frames The I Am First… program will equip first-generation college students with the confidence, self-awareness, and career readiness knowledge to jumpstart into a successful journey towards achieving career and leadership development. As an I Am First student you will be amongst a group of your peers who can relate to the first-generation college experience and provide a network of support even beyond the program conclusion. I am First... Program Benefits Exposure to: Life Design Exploratory Lab - walk away with a career and life road map to success StrengthsFinder 2.0 - a strengths-based assessment and overview to help identify your strengths as a first-generation college student First-generation Alumnus, Employer, Faculty Panel/Networking Access to an Alumni Mentor Receive a Launch Your Career Workbook with activities to build your networking skills to access the hidden job market and take a readiness assessment to identify ways to improve or enhance your readiness skills 1-1 Coaching sessions with the I Am First Career Coach Additional Benefits: Scholarship Award Opportunity - A $250 scholarship will be awarded to a select number of students who fully complete the program and additonal program requirements, to further explore and execute their goals Access to interest and career inventories offered by the Career Center free of cost i.e. Strong Interest Inventory and Myers Briggs Personality Assessments (valued at $20 each) Community through Canvas and Social Media Apply for I AM FIRST - CLICK HERE Program Qualifications: Identify as first in your family to obtain a college degree in the U.S. Currently enrolled as a 1st/2nd year undergraduate student - Fall Semester Cohort only Currently enrolled as a transfer, 3rd, or 4th year undergraduate students - Spring Semester Cohort only Complete entire program application Submit resume - The Career Center offers “Drive-Thru Services” M – F to assist you with your resume related questions. Or you can also utilize VMOCK our virtual resume check software, if you are unable to visit us in person. Click HERE to access VMOCK. Note**Program admittance is limited to 40 students. Time Commitment: Mandatory Tuesday sessions from 10am - 12pm - full commitment to attend all sessions is required. Two or more missed sessions will disqualify students for being eligible for a scholarship award and a Career Readiness Completion Certificate granted by the Career Center and signed by President Fram Virjee. Program Timeframe : June 7th - August 9th Timeline: Application submission 1st round applications - Deadline May 13th Student Orientation (Mandatory): TBA For additional questions regarding the I Am First program contact Stephanie Reyes at sreyes@fullerton.edu Testimonials: Hear from your peers about many aspects of being a first-generation college student and their experience in the I Am First program. Click on the thumbnail to play the video. Gabriela Ruiz Melanie Martinez Sarai Reyes This site is maintained by Career Center. Last Published 4/28/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact careercenter@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.3.5 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.