Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information Campus Access School & Program Information Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Plans for Academic Year 2021-22 Harvard’s undergraduate, graduate, and professional Schools have made adaptable plans for the academic year based on their own unique considerations. Links to each School’s plans and updates are below. Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard College Harvard Extension School Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Summer School Harvard Business School Harvard Divinity School Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health American Repertory Theater Updates for the A.R.T. community. A.R.T. Updates Arnold Arboretum Updates from The Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University. Arboretum Updates Harvard Art Museums Updates on Harvard Museums. Museum Updates Harvard Business School Updates and messages to the HBS community. HBS Updates T.H. Chan School of Public Health Updates for the School of Public Health. HSPH Updates Harvard College Review and subscribe to the latest messages to Harvard College students, parents and staff. Harvard College Updates Harvard School of Dental Medicine Updates for the HSDM community. HDSM Updates Graduate School of Design Updates for the GSD community. GSD Updates Harvard Divinity School Updates for the HDS community. HDS Updates Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Updates for the GSAS community. GSAS Updates Harvard Ed Portal Updates for the Ed Portal community. Ed Portal Updates Graduate School of Education Updates for the GSE community. GSE Updates Harvard Extension School Updates for the HES community. HES Updates Faculty of Arts and Sciences Updates for the FAS community. FAS Updates Harvard Kennedy School Updates for the HKS community. HKS Updates Harvard Law School Updates for the HLS community. HLS Updates Harvard Library Updates related to the Harvard Library community. Library Updates Harvard Medical School HMS community guidance, including laboratory personnel, students, and Longwood Medical Area employees. HMS Updates Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Updates from the Harvard Museums of Science and Culture. Museum Updates Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Updates for members of the Radcliffe community. Radcliffe Updates School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Updates for the SEAS community. SEAS Updates Harvard Summer School Update on the status of Harvard Summer School 2022 courses and programs. HSS Advisory Harvard Summer School Study Abroad Updates on the status of the 2022 Harvard Summer School Study Abroad Programs. HSS Study Abroad Updates Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube