Skip to Main Content Brown University The College Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Search The College Rhode Island School of Design Cross-Registration Brown's cross-registration agreement with Rhode Island School of Design offers all Brown students the option of taking studio art courses at the renowned Rhode Island School of Design (RISD), adjacent to Brown on College Hill. Breadcrumb Home Learn Beyond the Classroom U.S. Study Opportunities Rhode Island School of Design Cross-Registration Brown's cross-registration agreement with Rhode Island School of Design offers all Brown students the option of taking studio art courses at the renowned Rhode Island School of Design (RISD), adjacent to Brown on College Hill. Cross-registration at Brown or RISD is on a space-available basis and is subject to permission of the course instructor and the host-school’s Registrar. RISD students interested in cross-registering in Brown University courses should visit the RISD Registrar webpage for detailed instructions on the process. 2021-2022 Academic Year Back to Top Wintersession 2022 All RISD Wintersession courses (despite the modality listed) will be taught online from 1/6/2022– 1/13/2022. Beginning on Friday, 1/14/2022 courses will be taught in the modality published. The alterations due to COVID policies DO NOT alter the first day of classes or the Add/Drop period. Wintersession will begin on 1/6/2022 as planned. RISD’s Add/Drop period runs from 1/6/2022 – 1/13/ 2022. Cross-registration will not be available after 1/13/2022. The cross-registration process is an online process. In light of the first week of Wintersession being taught online, students should be in contact with the instructor they are interested in taking the class with and communicate their interest via email. Students should then complete the electronic cross-registration form. The instructor can provide students with the necessary Zoom links, etc. All cross-registrations need to be in place on the online form by RISD's add/drop deadline (January 13, 2022). RISD’s Wintersession has changed to Pass/No Credit grading in an attempt to support academic flexibility due to the ongoing pandemic challenges. Course Modalities 2021-2022 As a result of the pandemic, although most courses are taught ‘in-person’, there are still some courses taught as ‘hybrid’ or ‘online’. Students may cross-register at RISD for any modality course (in-person, hybrid, or online) as long as the instructor so approves. RISD will offer courses in all three modalities (in-person, hybrid, and online) for Fall, Wintersession and Spring. Instructions for Brown University Students Back to Top All Brown students have the option of taking a maximum of four course credits of studio art courses at the renowned Rhode Island School of Design (RISD), adjacent to Brown on College Hill. Students may count up to four credits from RISD courses toward graduation requirements at Brown. During the fall, winter, and spring terms, Brown students enroll at RISD under a cross-registration agreement that is part of their Brown tuition. RISD studios are most often 3 or 6 credits. Once approved, each 3-credit RISD course is regarded as the full equivalent of one Brown credit while each 6-credit RISD course is regarded as the full equivalent of two Brown credits. Students who register for a 6-credit course at RISD, should be aware that they will only be able to register for up to three additional Brown courses in that semester. Upon satisfactory completion with a grade of C or better, the course is recorded on the student's Brown transcript. Students who cross-register for a course during the RISD Wintersession term should note that this course will be recorded in the spring term and counts toward the five courses students may take in the spring. Registration for RISD courses is on a space-available basis and is subject to permission of the RISD instructor and the RISD Registrar. Completion of VISA 100 is recommended and may be required for some courses. The cross-registration process is completed via electronic forms. Students seeking an exception to the 4-credit policy for cross-registration at RISD should consult information on how to petition the Committee on Academic Standing. 2022 RISD Wintersession Reference for Students Registration Back to Top Brown students who wish to register for a RISD course in the fall, winter or spring terms should take the following steps: Access the RISD Course Catalog. Use the advanced search to search by ‘term’ (ie: Fall 2021). The modality of the course is listed, as well as instructor email. Brown students may cross-register at RISD for any modality course (in-person, hybrid, or online) as long as the instructor so approves. Indicate interest in a course by contacting the RISD instructor via email. Students should reach out to RISD instructors first to indicate interest before filling out the cross-registration form. Fill out RISD’s electronic cross-registration form. This electronic add form will not be available until RISD’s first day of classes for the semester and will close on the last day of the RISD add/drop period. Brown students may authenticate into the form using Google (using @brown.edu email). Complete RISD’s Commitment to Community Health and Safety and follow the health and safety protocols in place at RISD. Once the form is submitted, it will be routed electronically through the permission process. Once all approvals have been secured, the RISD and Brown Registrar’s Offices will register the student for the course. View cross-registration instructions (PDF) Important Dates Back to Top The electronic cross-registration form cannot be started until RISD’s first day of classes for the semester and will close on the last day of the RISD Add/Drop period. Fall 2021 9/8/2021 RISD Fall semester begins 9/8 - 9/15/2021 RISD's Add/Drop period Cross-registration will not be available after September 15 Winter 2022 1/6/2022 RISD Wintersession begins fully online despite the modality listed 1/6 - 1/13/2022 RISD's Add/Drop period Cross-registration will not be available after January 13 1/14/2022 RISD Wintersession courses begin in the modality published Spring 2022 2/17/2022 RISD Spring semester begins 2/17 - 2/24/2022 RISD's Add/Drop period Cross-registration will not be available after February 24 Independent Study Projects Back to Top In rare exceptions, Brown students are able to cross-register for an Independent Study Project (ISP) with full-time RISD faculty only. Any Brown student planning an ISP should email registrar@risd.edu for further instruction. Include in the email the RISD faculty member that you wish to register for an ISP with. ISPs are not available via the electronic cross-registration form. Fees Back to Top Some RISD courses require course fees that Brown students must pay upfront before registering for the course. Fees must be paid to RISD Student Financial Services prior to being registered for the course. Student Financial Services only accepts debit and credit cards for this payment (payments are made online at the time of registration as part of the electronic form). View a list of RISD courses with fees by term Cross-Registration with Anticipated May Graduation Back to Top Brown seniors in their final semester are discouraged from cross-registering in the spring term. RISD’s spring semester ends after Brown’s, and grades are not due until after Brown’s Commencement ceremony. As a result, this may delay graduation from Brown. Summer Session Back to Top Summer session is not included in the cross-registration agreement. Brown students pay RISD directly when they register for a summer class. RISD summer courses are subject to Brown’s transfer credit policy and approval procedures, which students should review and follow closely. Students considering taking a summer course at RISD should consult the section in ASK that outlines the transfer credit policy (Student Petitions > Transfer Credits > Information). If transferred to Brown, RISD summer courses count towards the maximum four credits of RISD coursework eligible for graduation requirements at Brown. Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Persona 1 Persona 2 Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Rhode Island School of Design Cross-Registration Open details for Rhode Island School of Design Cross-Registration Bookmark this Page