COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Emergency Operations Plan Section Menu CampusContacts InfoResources Emergency Guide Campus Safety Home ShockerAlert System Callboxes Weather Emergencies Contacts Earthquakes Emergency Operations Plan Safety Feedback The safety of the Wichita State University campus community – students, faculty, staff, and guests – is a university imperative. To that end, the university has developed a comprehensive Emergency Operations Plan. The EOP is a living document, constantly under review and revision to adapt to new threats and new technologies in a complicated world. Download the WSU Emergency Operations Plan Wichita State University EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN (EOP) Revised 01/17/2019; Revised 10/09/2018'; Revised 11/10/2009 Table of Contents SECTION I - INTRODUCTION Purpose / Authority / Scope SECTION II - OPERATIONS Concept of Operations / Levels of Emergency Response / Plan Activation / Command Structure / Presidents’ Executive Team / Critical Incident Planning Group and ICS Response / Emergency Notification and Crisis Communications Processes / Activation of the University Emergency Operations Center SECTION III – RECOVERY Immediate Damage Assessment Process / Business Continuity and Recovery / Counseling Services SECTION IV - MAINTENANCE OF THE EOP Emergency Operations Plan / Building Coordinators Program / Business Continuity and Recovery Plans / Training SECTION V – APPENDICES Emergency Operations Plan / Building Coordinators Program / Business Continuity and Recovery Plans / Training REFERENCES Safety Awareness / Requesting Emergency Assistance / Fire Emergencies / Reporting Unsafe Conditions / Police Response to Armed or Violent Behavior / Hostile Intruder(s) on the Campus / Hostile Intruder(s) in a Residence Hall / Hostage Situations / Bomb Threats or Explosions / Chemical, Biological, Radiation, Nuclear, Explosive (CBRNE) Incidents / Civil Disorder or Disturbances / Earthquakes or Building Collapse / During an Earthquake / Electrical Failure / Elevator Malfunction / Fire / Gas Leaks / Medical Emergencies / Tornadoes SECTION I - INTRODUCTION Purpose The purpose of the Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) is to enable the Presidents’ Executive Team, University emergency responders, and other staff to perform essential emergency planning and response functions that will: Support life-saving efforts Provide efficient use of available resources Insure continuity of operations so that essential services may continue to be provided to the University and its community The EOP is a university-wide plan which will: Explain the roles and responsibilities of the Presidents’ Executive Team and the five specific committees identified to assist with assigned tasks Explain the roles and responsibilities of the University emergency responders (University Police) and the support staff assisting in the operational response Require collaboration with non-University emergency responders through the utilization of the National Incident Management System (NIMS) and establishment of an Incident Command System (ICS) Identify the emergency notification and crisis communication processes, provide for training and testing of the emergency notification systems and crisis communication Direct the creation of a behavior intervention protocol (Care Team) utilized for identifying, reporting, evaluating, and addressing threatening behavior, conditions, circumstances and other potential threats which will provide for oversight by the Presidents’ Executive Team Task the Care Team with preparing plans to provide post-emergency incident counseling services for victims and families Require crisis management and EOP training for University community members, including emergency responders and others Require business continuity and recovery plans to be created by colleges and departments Include a post-emergency evaluation process The Presidents’ Executive Team described in WSU Policy and Procedure Manual Section 20.02, Crisis Management Planning and Preparedness, https://www.wichita.edu/about/policy/ch_20/ch20_02.php. This team is supported by five additional technical working groups: the Critical Incident Planning Group, the Business Continuity Committee, the Care Team, the Communications Team, and the Heath Risk Assessment Committee. Authority The EOP is compatible with the doctrines and methods expressed in the National Incident Management System (NIMS), the Incident Command System (ICS), the National Response Plan (NRP), Homeland Security Presidential Directive-5 (HSPD-5), Homeland Security Presidential Directive-8 (HSPD-8), Kansas Executive Order 05-03, K.S.A. 48-928, and other similar directives. Scope Numerous natural or man-made disasters and hazards can pose an actual or potential threat to public health and safety on the University campus. A comprehensive EOP is needed to respond to the effects of critical incidents, crises, and catastrophes. The EOP may be activated in response to a local, regional, or national crisis or catastrophe that significantly affects the University. The University defines three levels of emergency which may result in the activation of the EOP. The EOP is designed to enable employees and students to successfully cope with campus critical incidents, crises, and catastrophes. The overall ability of University personnel to respond to any emergency incident will rely primarily upon policies and procedures; emergency building plans and the Emergency Building Coordinator Program; business continuity and recovery plans; and existing or newly created guidelines and directives. The EOP is local in scope, but is intended to support a comprehensive, multiagency and multi-disciplinary, all-hazards approach to incident management across a range of activities including: Mitigation – periodically evaluating the physical environment to minimize the potential for risk of harm to others in the University community; evaluating each emergency response following EOP activation to improve and enhance future responses and thereby minimizing future risk of harm to members of our campus community and visitors Preparedness – creating and revising emergency plans and policies, training, and evaluating emergency responses for different types of crisis’ or catastrophes Response – the immediate emergency response to a critical incident, crisis, or catastrophe; performing such functions as protecting life, stopping or containing additional threat to life and property, and protecting critical infrastructure 6 Recovery – planning for and implementing actions to restore critical business functions and non-critical business functions, in order to restore operations of the University The EOP includes or references emergency building plans, business continuity and recovery plans, emergency contact information, or inclusions intended to support, or modify the EOP during emergency operations conducted in response to a crisis or catastrophe. The EOP may be activated during any of the following incidents, which may include, but are not limited to: Armed or Violent Behavior Bomb Threats or Explosions Chemical, Biological, Radiation, Nuclear, Explosive (CBRNE) Incidents Civil Disorder or Disturbances Earthquakes or Building Collapse Fire Medical Emergencies tornadoes Utility Emergencies. SECTION II - OPERATIONS Concept of Operations Only the President of the University or in the President’s absence, any member of the Presidents’ Executive Team has the authority to declare a campus state of emergency in order to activate the EOP. The Presidents’ Executive Team reports to the President of the University. During any prolonged absence from duty, team members must appoint a designee to serve in her/his place. The Team includes the President, the Provost, the Vice President for Finance and Administration, the Vice President for Student Affairs and the General Counsel. WSU Policy and Procedure Manual Section 20.02 Crisis Management Planning and Preparedness https://www.wichita.edu/about/policy/ch_20/ch20_02.php identifies those members of the Presidents’ Executive Team who have authority to act in the President’s absence. The policy also states the Presidents’ Executive Team shall approve overall priorities and strategies; approve public information reports and instructions; and act as a liaison to governmental and external organizations. Non-emergency University business functions may be interrupted or suspended during a declared campus crisis or emergency. The emergency functions assigned to specific University staff members identified in the EOP should be as similar as possible to their daily operating job functions. Other University staff members may be redirected from their normal job functions to perform necessary functions contained in the EOP or as determined by the Presidents’ Executive Team. Levels of Emergency Response The initial University emergency response may require transition to the Incident Command System (ICS). Members of the University Police Department (UPD) will usually be the first responders to or discoverers of an incident which may be elevated to a declared campus crisis. The jurisdictional authority of the UPD is defined by law and is referenced in WSU Policy and Procedure Manual Section 18.07 Jurisdictional Authority of University Police Department https://www.wichita.edu/about/policy/ch_18/ch18_07.php There are numerous variables and conditions which may impact the severity level of any emergency on campus. First responders will initially determine the level of emergency response. The following guidelines describe the three levels of emergency response on campus. Level 1 – is a critical incident or minor emergency which the UPD or other University responders are able to sufficiently address. The incident is localized so as not to inflict major interruption of University-wide services. The Chief of University Police or her/his designee may determine that an Incident Command Center (ICC) needs to be established in the field to provide operational control; and a member of the Presidents’ Executive Team should be notified. It usually is not necessary to activate the Emergency Operations Center (EOC). Level 2 – is a crisis or major emergency which disrupts the orderly operations of the University or its institutional missions. A crisis or major emergency affects many facets of the institution and may raise questions or concerns over closing or shutting down the institution for any period of time. Outside emergency resources are required, as well as a major effort from available campus resources. Level 3 – is a catastrophe or severe emergency whose nature and impact extends beyond the University and disrupts not only operations and functions of the institution, but also those of the surrounding communities. During a catastrophe or severe emergency, resources from other governmental sources may be delayed or unavailable because they are being employed within the broader community. In some instances, mass casualties or severe property damage may have been sustained. A coordinated effort of all campus-wide resources is required to effectively control the situation and outside emergency services and resources will be essential. Level 2 and Level 3 emergencies will generally require activation of the University Emergency Operations Center (EOC). Plan Activation The Presidents’ Executive Team may activate the EOP in response to a critical incident, crisis, or catastrophe in order to: Save lives and property or prevent further damage to the environment or physical plant systems Provide efficient use of University resources during a declared campus emergency Provide or restore essential services for the business operations of the University Temporarily reassign University employees to support the EOP Request non-University emergency resources to respond to the declared campus emergency Activate the University EOC Command Structure When the EOP is activated, the Presidents’ Executive Team is in command. The Critical Incident Planning Group and four technical working groups provide operational support for the Presidents’ Executive Team. Additionally, other specific emergency roles will include: Liaison (from the Critical Incident Planning Group to the Presidents’ Executive Team) usually the UPD Chief Public Information and Media Relations Officer (from the Communications Team) Incident Commander (emergency response commander in-charge at the scene) Presidents’ Executive Team University President General Counsel Provost Vice President for Finance and Administration Vice President for Student Affairs Vice President for Research and Technology Transfer Vice President for Strategic Communications Vice President for Diversity and Community Engagement Director of Athletics Chief of Staff Responsibilities of the Presidents’ Executive Team The Presidents’ Executive Team performs a variety of functions as outlined in WSU Policy and Procedure Manual Section 20.02 Crisis Management Planning and Preparedness https://www.wichita.edu/about/policy/ch_20/ch20_02.php including, but not limited to Identify and evaluate the immediate and long range effects of the crisis or catastrophe on the University’s business operation and community members and the impact on the surrounding community Determine the immediate business operations parameters and whether or not classes or campus offices should be closed Identify any unique assignments of staff or unique emergency policies necessary to conduct emergency operations or less critical non-emergency functions Identify and address any legal issues associated with the crisis or response to the crisis Analyze information from the emergency responders, Critical Incident Planning Group, Care Team, Communication Team, Health Risk Assessment Committee, and Business Continuity Committee, other University staff members, non-University information sources, and others to determine the impact of the critical incident crisis or catastrophe upon University operations Provide direction and oversight to the Communication Team concerning production of regular internal status reports and media releases to the University and larger communities Provide direction and oversight of the Critical Incident Planning Group and Care Team, Communication Team, Health Risk Assessment Committee, and Business Continuity Committee Direct Deans, Directors, and other appropriate senior managers to develop and implement business continuity and recovery plans Direct the Care Team to develop a plan to provide a family resource and victim support center in the aftermath of a crisis situation Critical Incident Planning Group Members Director, Environmental Health & Safety – Chair Associate Athletics Director for Facilities/Operations Vice President, Strategic Communications Chief, UPD Director, Counseling & Testing Center Director, Office of Disabilities Services Director, Office of Facilities Planning Executive Director, Student Life Director, Office of Campus Recreation Director, Human Resources Director, Office of Purchasing Director, Physical Plant Director, Rhatigan Student Center Director, Student Health Services Director, Information Technology Services Office of the Registrar Other staff members as deemed appropriate Responsibilities of the Critical Incident Planning Group The Critical Incident Planning Group is responsible for organizing and planning threat assessment and vulnerability assessments on a regular basis. WSU Policy 11 and Procedure Manual Section 20.02 Crisis Management Planning and Preparedness https://www.wichita.edu/about/policy/ch_20/ch20_02.php The Critical Incident Planning Group will initiate training programs and requirements for all University employees and make regular reports to the Presidents’ Executive Team, including monitoring the completion of ICS training by University police officers and members of the Presidents’ Executive Team and the other associated committees The Critical Incident Planning Group will initiate situation-specific drills and/or “table-top” exercises to: Evaluate evacuation procedures for fire alarms and evaluate evacuation procedures and shelter sites for severe weather (tornado warnings). Provide support functions for UPD active shooter drills. Evaluate the University’s ability to plan for interference with University operations Regularly review the emergency response plans for campus buildings as created and submitted annually by the Building Coordinators from the Emergency Building Coordinator Program, which are maintained by the Chair of the Critical Incident Planning Group Any other planning, mitigation, or response functions as necessary. Care Team Members Assistant Vice President of Student Affairs Assessment and Retention (Chair) Associate Vice President, Academic Affairs Associate Vice President, Student Affairs & Dean of Students Chief, University Police Department Coordinator for Student Engagement Director, Counseling & Testing Center Director, Disability Services Director, Institutional Equity and Compliance Director, Student Conduct and Community Standards Director, Student Health Services Director, Student Involvement Executive Director, Student Life General Counsel Other staff members as deemed appropriate Responsibilities of the Care Team This team provides the following functions: Establish and implement campus threat assessment procedures and resources Educate community members regarding the threat assessment protocol Review concerns that an individual may be engaged in behavior that potentially creates danger to self or others, which may be discovered during a UPD emergency response or otherwise Create and implement an immediate response to the reasonable suspicion that an individual is a danger to self or others Liaison and communicate team recommendations, when appropriate, to the Presidents’ Executive Team Following the threat assessment response, evaluate the response and outcome(s) and report to the Presidents’ Executive Team Create plans to provide counseling resources in the aftermath of a critical incident Communications Team Members Vice President Strategic Communications – Chair Director of News and Media Relations Director, Community Relations and Special Events Director, of News and Media Relations Other staff members as deemed appropriate Responsibilities of the Communications Team This team provides the following functions: Create a flexible crisis communications plan Recommend team goals and objectives, tactics, and special requirements The Communications Team will initiate testing of all existing crisis notification/communication systems on a regular basis and make regular reports to the Presidents’ Executive Team Strategic Communications will coordinate media releases with the other responding agencies media relations personnel, upon the direction of the Presidents’ Executive Team During a crisis or catastrophe, recommend to the Presidents’ Executive Team, appropriate and periodic internal communications for faculty/staff and students During a crisis involving only the University community, recommend to the Presidents’ Executive Team, appropriate and periodic external communications During a crisis or catastrophe involving the University and the surrounding community, coordinate external communications with other communication teams from the other involved governmental agencies Assist in identifying one person to represent the University in delivering all internal and external crisis communications Health Risk Assessment Committee Members Director, Student Health Services – Chair Captain, University Police Director, Environmental Health and Safety Director of Facility Services Associate Director Counseling and Testing Center Physician, Student Health Services One or more faculty members Other staff members as deemed appropriate Responsibilities of the Health Risk Assessment Committee This team provides the following functions: Develop a University Pandemic Influenza Plan Identify potential risks to the health and well-being of the University community members Develop plans to prevent and respond to any identified health risks Create and update community medication distribution plans for chemical and biological events in cooperation with the local health department. Business Continuity Committee Members Chair, Director of Auxiliary Services Co-Chair, Executive Assistant to the VP of Finance and Administration Director of Facilities Planning Director of Business Technology Director of Server Infrastructure Faculty Rep (TBD) Human Resources Rep (TBD) Other staff members as deemed appropriate Responsibilities of the Business Continuity Committee This team provides the following functions: Upon direction from the Presidents’ Executive Team, request that Deans and Directors implement their University business continuity and recovery plans Develop business continuity project plan Perform risk assessment Develop Recovery Plans Periodically review and evaluate the business continuity and recovery plans Other Specific Emergency Roles Requests for personnel, resources, information, and assistance for the Incident Command Center will usually be forwarded to the Chair of the Critical Incident Planning Group. The Liaison between the Critical Incident Planning Group and the Presidents’ Executive Team is usually the Chief of the UPD or the Chair of the Critical Incident Planning Group. The Liaison from the Critical Incident Planning Group 14 provides the critical information flow between the Critical Incident Planning Group and Presidents’ Executive Team The Vice President of Strategic Communications or his designee will fulfill the ICS position known as the Public Information and Media Relations Officer. The Vice President will manage internal status reports; coordinate with the Presidents’ Executive Team to provide external media briefings; and, liaison with any external agency Public Information Officers at the non-University Emergency Operations Center. Critical Incident Planning Group and ICS Response The Incident Commander is usually the emergency response commander incharge of the 911 response in the field and the person coordinating all other emergency responders on the scene. The Incident Commander may be the police commander directing the on-scene response to a violent criminal incident. Or, the Incident Commander may be the fire commander directing the operational response to a large fire or rescue operations in a building collapse. When the EOP is activated, the Critical Incident Planning Group and the other four technical working groups will transition to the ICS model in order for members to most effectively communicate cross-functions, cross-disciplines, and cross-agencies, and to perform as efficiently as possible in a high stress environment. The ICS functional work groups (sections) include: Planning Section – collects, verifies, and organizes information to be analyzed in order to make operational decisions; documents the Incident Action Plans Operations Section – directs and coordinates the operations plans to accomplish the response goals and Incident Action Plans outcomes Logistics Section – obtains resources and stages the personnel and resources for deployment, replacement, rehabilitation, and redeployment Finance Section – tracks all costs, manages the claims process, and provides projections of “burn rates” of personnel and resources for the Presidents’ Executive Team <Figure 1> Essential Personnel All executives and senior managers (President, Vice Presidents, Associate and Assistant Vice Presidents, Deans, Associate and Assistant Deans, Executive Directors, Directors, Associate and Assistant Directors, and Department Chairs) are considered essential personnel in Level 2 and Level 3 emergencies. Additionally, Building Coordinators are considered essential personnel. Other essential personnel include all staff members from departments that perform emergency response or support functions such as supplying shelter facilities and residential housing on campus; physical plant care and support functions; and others as identified by the Presidents’ Executive Team. The roles and responsibilities of essential personnel are to be described in their respective building and departmental emergency plans. The emergency functions assigned to specific University staff members identified in the EOP or building emergency plans should be as similar as possible to their daily operating job functions. Emergency Notification and Crisis Communications Processes Emergency notification and crisis communications are critical functions during a critical incident, crisis, or catastrophe on campus. WSU Policy and Procedure Manual Section 20.21, https://www.wichita.edu/about/policy/ch_20/ch20_21.php Emergency Response and Evacuation, provides for a campus-wide emergency notification process in certain situations. The University’s ShockerAlert system facilitates electronic emergency notification to individual employees and students within the University community. ShockerAlert can automatically send emergency alerts via the following systems: Emergency mass notification message boards Cell phone text messages Email to all edu addresses WSU public Web site (www.wichita.edu ) WSU intranet (myWSU) Campus Information Channel (TV monitors) To receive cell phone text messages, University community members must elect to opt-in. See www.wichita.edu/emergency in order to complete the steps necessary to receive emergency notification by text message. Emergency mass notification digital message boards are strategically located in campus classrooms, department offices, and in many building lobbies. The message boards normally perform as digital clocks. When emergency notification is activated, however, these digital displays immediately transition into message boards to provide a scrolling emergency text message. The Presidents’ Executive Team members, the UPD chief or senior officer incharge can decide if the ShockerAlert system should be activated (See Table 1). The system will be activated for: Tornado Warning issued for Sedgwick County when Sedgwick County Emergency Management activates the warning sirens Campus closing due to inclement weather Any other Level 1,2,3 emergency Trained personnel, in order of priority, will activate ShockerAlert: University Police Department Strategic Communications University Computing and Telecommunications Physical Plant Authority to Initiate an Emergency Alert Generally, the Presidents’ Executive Team members reserve the authority to direct the initiation of an emergency notification during all levels of emergency response. Different circumstances and other variables may impact the decision concerning which or how many of the multiple layers of emergency notification might be activated in any given incident (see Table 1). Incident Message Responsible for Decision to Notify Responsible for Dissemination Communication Options LEVEL 1 Bomb threats; localized fire; minor hazardous materials spill; minor utilities disruption; large 1st amendment event; public health alert; tornado warning; weather-related campus closure Message with some directive information Presidents’ Executive Team [Exception: UPD dispatchers may issue Tornado Warning Alert] UPD Dispatcher; Strategic Communications; ITS; Physical Plant 1. Email 1. Email 2. Text Messaging 3. Message Boards 4. Web Alert on public website 5. myWSU website 6. Campus Info Channel 7. Tornado Siren LEVEL 2 Major incident or violent acts with implications for campus safety; large fire or structural collapse; major utilities disruption; major hazmat incident Message with fill–in the blank details and directive information Presidents’ Executive Team [Exception: UPD Chief or Senior Officer in Charge] UPD Dispatcher; Strategic Communications; ITS; Physical Plant 1. Email 2. Text Messaging 3. Message Boards 4. Web Alert on public website 5. myWSU website 6. Campus Info Channel 7. Tornado Siren LEVEL 3 Local, regional or national crisis that critically impacts the campus; campus evacuation To the extent possible, information disseminated will be incident specific Presidents’ Executive Team [Exception: UPD Chief or Senior Officer in Charge] UPD Dispatcher; Strategic Communications; ITS; Physical Plant 1. Email 2. Text Messaging 3. Message Boards 4. Web Alert on public website 5. myWSU website 6. Campus Info Channel 7. Tornado Siren Command Post The Incident Commander and other operations section personnel may be at the Command Post located near the critical incident or crisis. The Command Post may be simply a central location of emergency vehicles that responded to the incident or the Command Post may be temporary quarters inside a nearby campus structure. The Presidents’ Executive Team may decide to establish a University Emergency Operations Center (EOC) during a Level 1 emergency. An EOC will generally be activated during the initial stages of Level 2 and Level 3 emergencies. Depending upon the nature of the emergency and the location of the EOC, the Presidents’ Executive Team may choose to remain in Morrison Hall, or they may choose to join the Critical Incident Planning Group at the EOC. Activation of the University Emergency Operations Center The Presidents’ Executive Team may activate the EOC during an emergency. The primary coordinator for the Presidents’ Executive Team is responsible for equipping, and supplying the EOC. When the EOC is activated: The location of the EOC will be determined based upon the circumstances and location of the particular emergency A state of emergency is in effect for the campus community Local first responders, including the Wichita Fire Department, Emergency Medical Services, Wichita Police Department, Sedgwick County Sheriff’s Office, and other law enforcement agencies, may supplement first responders from the UPD WSU Policy and Procedure Manual Section 18.07 Jurisdictional Authority of University Police Department https://www.wichita.edu/about/policy/ch_18/ch18_07.php explains any memorandums of understanding with local first responders Evaluate the need for seeking assistance from other universities and colleges that could conceivably provide assistance during critical incidents Evaluate the scope and impact of the crisis or catastrophe and document, describe and communicate that information using specific ICS forms and/or the Sedgwick County Emergency Management web tools provided from their EOC Departments in those areas of the campus likely to be affected by the emergency will be identified The Presidents’ Executive Team will direct the Critical Incident Planning Group to carry out action plans based upon incident specific strategies Building Coordinators and departments may initiate building or departmental emergency plans The Critical Incident Planning Group will continue to provide operational support for the Presidents’ Executive Team for the duration of the 19 emergency until the effects of the emergency no longer impact the University’s operations The University President or his designee will declare an end to any state of emergency, when appropriate. <Figure 2> . SECTION III – RECOVERY Immediate Damage Assessment Process The immediate damage assessment process is managed through the EOC. That assessment includes: Identifying injury, loss of life, and damage to property Business recovery priorities Assessments or projections of the time necessary for the continuing emergency response and business operations recovery Business Continuity and Recovery Preplanning is essential in identifying and prioritizing the critical business operations and services necessary to be delivered during an emergency, while maintaining institutional integrity and serving the best interests of the University community, under difficult circumstances. The Business Continuity Plan was developed in order to ensure the University has the ability to maintain critical services and functions in the event of a disaster or other disruption of service. Business continuity is a process used to restore operations after an unplanned interruption of normal business processes that is beyond the immediate ability of an organization’s normal staff and management structure to control. The recovery response includes information systems, networks, hardware, software and people – not just data. The Business Continuity Plan will be executed after health, life, and safety issues are addressed. Business continuity planning includes: Planning and organizing business operations to be utilized after the EOP response Identifying and minimizing (mitigating) vulnerabilities in a future continuity response Prioritizing business continuity and recovery concerns Perform exercises to test the plan and train users The Business Continuity Committee goals include: Develop and Maintain Business Continuity Project Plan: Define the scope of recovery for the University and create a project plan which defines tasks and resources required for each phase of recovery Perform Risk Assessment: Complete a risk assessment and business impact analysis which will define critical services and vulnerabilities Develop Plans: Develop recovery plans for critical services which include identifying resources required for recovery (i.e., equipment software, employees, vendors, customers, vital records and documents) Exercise and Maintain Plans: Exercise and maintain plans on a regularly scheduled basis or when significant changes occur Based upon the circumstances of the Level 1, 2, or 3 Emergency, recovery priorities will be determined by the Presidents’ Executive Team. They may choose to set timelines when recovery is required to occur. In order to prepare University community members to perform competently during a Level 2 or 3 Emergency, senior executives and senior managers are required to create business continuity and recovery plans to protect their essential records and programs for their respective colleges and departments. This is required to insure the University will be able to resume normal business operations within a reasonable period of time and with minimal destruction to critical business records. The ultimate goal will be to resume business operations in order to continue the mission of the University. Counseling Services Traumatic events can create short-term and long-term psychological effects. The University Care Team will coordinate referrals with outside community resources for our University community members affected by the crisis or catastrophic event. Counseling services will be made available to all students and, employees who desire those services as soon as it is reasonably feasible to deliver those services in a safe and effective manner. SECTION IV - MAINTENANCE OF THE EOP Emergency Operations Plan The EOP will be regularly reviewed by the Presidents’ Executive Team. Building Coordinators Program The Chair of the Critical Incident Planning Group directs the Emergency Building Coordinators Program. Building coordinator representation in each building and department are essential to the success of the EOP. A template is provided to Building Coordinators to insure there is standardization of information concerning emergency building plans. The Critical Incident Planning Group may assist in the regular review and evaluation of emergency building plans. Business Continuity and Recovery Plans The Business Continuity Committee will develop, maintain, and test the continuity and recovery plans. A template is provided to Deans and Directors for the standardization of Business Continuity and Recover Plans. The Business Continuity Committee assists the Presidents’ Executive Team in the regular review and evaluation of college and department Business Continuity and Recovery Plans. Training The Critical Incident Planning Group will monitor completion of all required ICS training for University first responders and members of the Presidents’ Executive Team, Critical Incident Planning Group, Business Continuity Committee, Care Team, Communications Team, and Health Risk Assessment Committee. University first responders (police officers and fire safety officers) MUST complete the following FEMA online courses: ICS100, IS100.a, IS100.LEa, or IS100.HE - Introduction to Incident Command System IS700.a - National Incident Management System (NIMS): An Introduction University police supervisors and managers MUST complete the following FEMA online AND state administered classroom courses: ICS100, IS100.a, IS100.LEa, or IS100.HE - Introduction to Incident Command System IS700.a - National Incident Management System (NIMS): An Introduction IS800.b - National Response Framework: An Introduction ICS200.a - ICS for Single Resources and Initial Action Incidents ICS300 or G300 - Intermediate ICS: Expanding Incidents (16 hours - classroom facilitated) ICS400 or G400 - Advanced ICS, Command and General Staff: Complex Incidents (14 hours - classroom facilitated) Members of the Presidents’ Executive Team SHOULD complete: ICS402 or G402 - ICS Overview for Executives/Senior Officials (2 hours - classroom facilitated) Members of the Critical Incident Planning Group, Business Continuity Committee, Care Team, Communications Team, and Health Risk Assessment Committee SHOULD complete the following FEMA online AND state administered classroom courses: IS100.HE – Introduction to Incident Command System, ICS100 for Higher Education IS700.a - National Incident Management System (NIMS): An Introduction ICS200.a - ICS for Single Resources and Initial Action Incidents IS800.b - National Response Framework: An Introduction ICS300 or G300 - Intermediate ICS: Expanding Incidents (16 hours - classroom facilitated) ICS400 or G400 - Advanced ICS, Command and General Staff: Complex Incidents (14 hours - classroom facilitated). SECTION V – APPENDICES Safety Awareness WSU Policy and Procedure Manual Section 8.18 Eschewing Campus/Workplace Violence https://www.wichita.edu/about/policy/ch_08/ch8_18.php identifies policy in regard to the prevention, deterrence, and response to workplace violence. WSU Policy and Procedure Manual Section 18.02, Emergency Assistance, https://www.wichita.edu/about/policy/ch_08/ch18_02.php, provides information concerning how to respond to crimes. Everyone is asked to assist in making the campus a safe place by being alert to suspicious situations and promptly reporting them. Wichita State University encourages accurate and prompt reporting of all crimes to the campus police and the appropriate police agencies, when the victim of a crime elects to, or is unable to, make such a report. The Wichita State University Police Department (UPD) also encourages students, employees and visitors to contact a member of the UPD to report crimes, or incidents that may or may not be crimes, immediately. Contact the UPD by calling 316-978-3450 or, if calling from a campus phone, dial 911. Time is an extremely important factor in reporting and can mean the difference between a suspect being apprehended or successfully evading law enforcement personnel. In addition to reporting to the UPD, crimes or incidents may also be reported to the Wichita Police Department. To reach the WichitaSedgwick County Emergency Communications dispatcher dial 9-911 from a campus phone or 911 from a cell phone or outside line. Requesting Emergency Assistance To request an ambulance, the fire department, or the University Police Department for emergency assistance, call the University Police Department at extension 911 from any campus phone or dial 316-978-3450 from a cell phone or outside line. Tell the dispatcher the nature of the request, the name of the caller, location and phone number. If the dispatcher asks the caller to hold, the individual should do so if at all possible. The dispatcher will immediately send an officer and other necessary emergency equipment to the location and then return to the caller to obtain necessary additional information. For nonemergency incidents, call the University Police Department at 316-978-3450. To contact the Wichita-Sedgwick County Emergency Communications from a campus phone, dial 9-911. Fire Emergencies In the event of a fire, call the University Police Department at 316-978-3450 or, if calling from a campus phone, dial 911. Go to a safe place and call for help. If possible, pull the building alarm system as you leave the building Reporting Unsafe Conditions To report a situation or condition that poses a threat to the safety and well-being of persons using, passing by or through the facility in question, report it to the fire and safety officer at 316-978-5531. The officer will investigate the situation and recommend corrective action to the appropriate authorities. After normal business hours, report to the University Police Department dispatcher. Police Response to Armed or Violent Behavior Once the police arrive, obey all commands. This may involve your being handcuffed or made to put your hands in the air. This is done for safety reasons, and once circumstances are evaluated by the police, they will give you further directions to follow You should understand the police response to active shooter situations. Police officers are trained to enter the building as soon as possible and proceed to the area of the shooter(s). They will move quickly and directly. When you encounter responding police officers they are trained to treat everyone as a potential threat. Comply with any commands given by the police. Usually there will be commands given to show your hands, drop anything in your hands and to get on the ground. Stay calm and show you are not a threat or the offender. The police may take actions to take control of you, which may include handcuffing. We do not recommend an automatic evacuation or automatic lock-down of the building. This may place you in danger either from the shooter or responding police. If there is an opportunity to escape, get as far away as possible and do not gather in groups. Once you are in a safe location let 911 know your location and whether you are injured. COMPLY WITH ANY AND ALL COMMANDS ISSUED BY POLICE OFFICERS. Early in an incident, police may not be able to rescue people. Remain calm and patient during this time, so as not to interfere with police operations. Injured parties will be rescued when safe. Be prepared to administer first aid if it is safe to do so. If you are alerted there is a violent or active shooter situation while enroute to the campus STAY AWAY FROM CAMPUS. Alerts and all-clear messages will be issued by email and telephone contacts. This guide cannot cover every possible situation that might occur but it is a tool that can reduce the number of injuries or death if put into action as soon as a situation develops. Time is the most important factor in the optimal management of these types of situations. Hostile Intruder(s) on the Campus This is a police response situation. Responding UPD officers are trained and equipped to confront an armed suspect. When a hostile person(s) is actively causing death or serious physical injury or the threat of imminent death or serious physical injury to person(s) on the campus, we recommend the following procedures be implemented: RUN or FLEE THE AREA HIDE or SHELTER IN PLACE FIGHT , FIGHT FOR YOUR LIFE RUN - Flee the Area If you strable, run away from the threat as fast and as far as you can and seek shelter (cover and concealment); avoid parking lots and open areas If you are able to flee from the immediate area of danger, summon help and warn others Call the UPD by dialing 911 or 978-3450 (cell phone) Give your name Provide the location of the incident (be as specific as possible) Describe what is happening Describe or identify the shooters Provide your current location (stay on the line, if possible) Do not run in a straight line Put obstacles or cover between you and the hostile person(s) while you are running away; i.e. vehicles, bushes, trees, buildings, etc. If the shooting is occurring outdoors, run away from the sounds of shooting, if you can do so without increasing your risk of harm and/or find cover and concealment HIDE - Shelter in Place If you are unable to flee, SHELTER IN PLACE: Go to the nearest room or office and hide Close and lock or barricade the door, if possible Cover the door windows, if possible Keep quiet and act as if no one is in the room DO NOT answer the door Call the UPD by dialing 911 or 978-3450 (cell phone) Give your name Provide the location of the incident (be as specific as possible) Describe what is happening Describe or identify the shooters Provide your current location (stay on the line, if possible) Wait for the police to enter the room and escort you out If you decide to SHELTER IN PLACE take into consideration the area in which you are hiding Will I be found here? Is this really a good spot to remain hidden? FIGHT - Fight For Your Life If the person(s) is causing death or serious physical injury to others and you are unable to run or hide you may choose to be compliant or fight for your life If you are caught by the intruder and choose to be compliant, do not stare at the intruder, but obey all commands. Do not appear to pose a challenge—be submissive The last option you have may be to fight back. This is dangerous, but depending upon your situation, this may be your only option Hostile Intruder(s) in a Residence Hall When a hostile person(s) is actively causing deadly harm or the imminent threat of deadly harm within a residence hall, we recommend the following procedures be implemented: RUN - Flee the Area If you think you can safely run from the residence hall, do so If you decide to run, do not run in a straight line. Keep any objects you can between you and the hostile person(s) while in the building HIDE - Shelter in Place SHELTER IN PLACE - Lock yourself in your room Barricade yourself in your room with desks, beds, or anything you can push against the door Stay away from the window Turn all lights and audio equipment off Try to stay calm and be as quiet as possible If communication is available, call the UPD by dialing 911 or 978-3450 (cell phone) Give your name Provide the location of the incident (be as specific as possible) Describe what is happening Describe or identify the shooters Provide your current location (stay on the line, if possible) If away from your room, join others in a room that can be locked. Do not remain in an open hallway Do not sound the fire alarm. A fire alarm would signal the occupants in the rooms to evacuate the building and would place them in potential harm as they attempted to exit If you are caught in the open such as hallways and lounge areas, you must decide what you are going to do. This is a very crucial time and can possibly mean life or death depending on your actions FIGHT - Fight For Your Life If the person(s) is causing death or serious physical injury to others and you are unable to run or hide you may choose to be compliant or fight for your life If you are caught by the intruder and choose to be compliant, do not stare at the intruder, but obey all commands. Do not appear to pose a challenge—be submissive The last option you have may be to fight back. This is dangerous, but depending upon your situation, this may be your only option Hostage Situations This information could prove helpful if you find yourself a hostage: Be patient. Time is on your side. Avoid drastic action The initial 45 minutes are the most dangerous. Follow instructions and be alert. The captor may be emotionally imbalanced. Do not make mistakes that could jeopardize your well-being Do not speak unless spoken to and then only when necessary. Do not talk down to the captor, who may be in an agitated state. Avoid appearing hostile. Treat the captor as friendly as possible Avoid speculating. Comply with the instructions as well as you can Avoid arguments. Expect the unexpected Be observant. Try to remember all distinguishable characteristics of your captor (tattoo, scar, teeth missing, etc.). You may be released or escape. The personal safety of the others may depend on your memory Be prepared to answer the police on the phone should a line be patched through to your location. Be patient, wait. If medication or first aid is needed by anyone, say so. The captor in all probability will not harm persons being held Bomb Threats or Explosions Report any explosion by calling the UPD by dialing 911 or 978-3450 (cell phone) immediately If necessary, or when directed to do so, activate the building fire alarm When the building fire alarm is sounded, an emergency exists. All rooms should be evacuated. Closing doors will help contain a fire. DO NOT LOCK DOORS ASSIST THE DISABLED TO AN ENCLOSED STAIRWELL LANDING AND NOTIFY POLICE OR FIRE PERSONNEL OF THEIR LOCATION DO NOT USE THE ELEVATORS Concerning a bomb threat, remain calm and do not panic others. If a written message is received, keep track of the following information: Who found it Who else was present Where was it found or how was it delivered When was it found or delivered Who touched it Have any previous threats been received If the threat is received by telephone, in a calm voice, try to obtain as much information as possible about the bomb and the caller: (KEEP A BOMB THREAT CARD UNDER YOUR PHONE AND USE IT IF A CALL COMES IN!) Date and exact time of call Time set to explode Which building is it in Where it is Type of bomb Estimated age and gender of the caller Emotional state: agitated, calm, excited Background noises: traffic, music, voices Why it was set Who is the target Who is the caller If practical, do not hang up the phone, but phone the police from a different telephone. Call the UPD by dialing 911 or 978-3450 (cell phone). The UPD senior officer on the scene will contact a Presidents’ Executive Team member and recommend a plan of action. A decision on whether or not to evacuate will be based on all available information received at that time. If the decision is made to evacuate, instruct occupants to take their personal belongings with them; including items such as purses, briefcases, or backpacks, as these types of items could be mistaken as possibly concealing explosives. If ordered to evacuate, move at least 300 feet away from the building to designated evacuation area and wait for instructions. Stay away from glass. Bomb Threat - Identifying Suspicious Items Look closely around work area when you arrive for work. This will help you if you are called on to identify unusual or suspicious items later Report potential safety or security problems to UPD 911 or 978-3450 (cell phone) Be on the lookout for anything unusual, particularly packages or large items seemingly left behind or thrown out. Note time and location of anything odd If asked to assist in a search for a bomb: Be thorough DO NOT USE 2-way RADIOS Do not touch anything you suspect If necessary move people away from the suspicious item Look for anything and everything that might conceal a bomb Do not panic persons in the area Follow all instructions from the police Bomb Search Procedures If the time of detonation given was in excess of 30 minutes from the time the call was received, the investigating officer in charge will initiate a search of the building The search will be suspended 30 minutes prior to the reported detonation The search will be resumed 30 minutes following the reported detonation If no time of detonation was given by the caller, the search will be conducted at the discretion of the investigating officer The senior police officer in-charge will make a recommendation to the Presidents’ Executive Team member whether or not persons should return to the building if no explosive has been found Chemical, Biological, Radiation, Nuclear, Explosive (CBRNE) Incidents Some kinds of chemical accidents or attacks may make going outdoors dangerous. Review Chapter 10 University Environmental Health and Safety WSU Policy and Procedure Manual Section https://www.wichita.edu/about/policy/ch_10/ch_10.php Leaving the area might take too long or put you in greater danger. In such a case it may be safer for you to stay indoors than to go outside. Shelter in Place This means to make a shelter out of the place in which you are located. It is a way for you to make the building as safe as possible to protect yourself until help arrives. You should not try to shelter in a vehicle unless you have no other choice. Vehicles are not airtight enough to give you adequate protection from chemicals. If communication is available, call the UPD by dialing 911 or 978-3450 (cell phone) Give your name Provide the location of the incident (be as specific as possible) Describe what is happening Describe or identify the shooters Provide your current location (stay on the line, if possible) Do not sound the fire alarm. A fire alarm would signal the occupants in the rooms to evacuate the building and thus place them in potential harm as they attempted to exit Notification from Police The following steps may help keep you safe during a CBRNE incident: The UPD may receive notification from the Sedgwick County Emergency Communications if a chemical or biological release incident occurs offcampus which might require protective actions be taken by those on campus A variety of notification methods will be used to inform all WSU employees and students of the protective action alert Message boards will be used to notify building occupants of any imminent danger, and give direction on what to do DO NOT PANIC Close Doors and Windows Do not exit the building If possible, move to an interior, windowless room on an upper floor Close all doors to the outside and lock all windows Wet towels or other fabric items and jam them in the crack under the door Use plastic (trash bags are good) to cover all windows and doors. Use tape to seal the edges of plastic Seal Off Ventilation Sources Turn off fume hoods, range hoods, air handlers, and all air conditioners Switch inlets to the "closed" position Seal off all vents, grills, or other openings to the outside to the extent possible Minimize the use of the elevators in the building. These tend to "pump" outdoor air in and out of a building as they travel up and down If you become bothered by the gaseous release, hold a wet cloth or handkerchief over your nose and mouth If you experience breathing difficulties, call the UPD by dialing 911 or 978- 3450 (cell phone) and request immediate medical assistance Remain Indoors Monitor the ShockerAlert Emergency Notification alerts or other information sources for additional information and guidance Do not evacuate the building unless told to do so by UPD, Building Coordinators or the other emergency services responders Civil Disorder or Disturbances Most campus demonstrations are peaceful and people not involved should attempt to carry on business as usual. Avoid provoking or obstructing demonstrators. One policy governs the use of the University campus for First Amendment activities: WSU Policy and Procedure Manual Section 11.12, Use of University Campus for First Amendment Activities, https://www.wichita.edu/about/policy/ch_11/ch11_12.php Should a disturbance occur, call the UPD by dialing 911 or 978-3450 (cell phone). If a disturbance seems to threaten the occupants of the building, report it immediately and take the following actions: Alert all persons in the area of the situation Lock all doors and windows Close blinds to prevent flying glass If necessary, your department may decide to cease work operations. If it becomes necessary to evacuate, follow directions from police. If evacuation occurs, meet at any location designated in your Emergency Building Coordinator Plan and wait for additional instructions and information. Earthquakes or Building Collapse In the event of an earthquake and/or building collapse, the following guidelines shall be adhered to: After an earthquake or a building collapse, if it is safe to do so, law enforcement responders may initially perform a quick survey of buildings to locate anyone needing medical assistance and note any obvious building damage, as the WFD and others respond to the scene HRL facilities should be surveyed first, followed by occupied campus buildings The initial building survey should include whether or not there are Life threatening emergencies Small fires – (use available resources to extinguish if possible) Structural damage to building Broken or fallen power lines Burnout on the exterior of electrical boxes Gas Odors Sewer and water line damage Pavement cracks or sink holes Unknown spills The Incident Commander will direct or coordinate all search and rescue efforts, which may include Learning escape routes used by victims and personal knowledge of other victims still trapped Obtaining building floor plans Determining the most likely search locations, considering the type of facility and use of the facility at the time of the incident Map where persons have been found and the locations of existing hazards If the area were to experience an actual earthquake EMS services may be limited. During an Earthquake During an earthquake, remain calm and quickly follow the steps outlined below: If INDOORS, seek refuge in a doorway or under a desk. Stay away from glass windows, shelves, and heavy equipment. "DUCK, COVER AND HOLD ON" If OUTDOORS, move quickly away from buildings, utility poles, and other structures. CAUTION: Always avoid power or utility lines, as they may be energized. Know your assembly points If in an AUTOMOBILE, stop in the safest place available, preferably away from power lines and trees. Stop as quickly as safety permits, but stay in the vehicle for the shelter it offers After the initial tremors be prepared for aftershocks Damaged facilities should be reported to the EOC or call the UPD by dialing 911 or 978-3450 (cell phone) If necessary, or when directed to do so, ACTIVATE the building fire alarm. ALSO call the UPD by dialing 911 or 978-3450 (cell phone) When the building evacuation alarm is sounded, walk to the nearest marked exit and ask others to do the same ASSIST THE DISABLED IN EXITING THE BUILDING Once outside, move to a clear area that is at least 500 feet away from the affected building(s). Keep streets, fire lanes, hydrants, and walkways clear for emergency vehicles and crews. Know your Building Coordinator Plan for evacuation purposes If requested, assist emergency crews as necessary A Command Post may be set up near the disaster site. Keep clear of the Command Post unless you have official business DO NOT RETURN TO AN EVACUATED BUILDING unless permitted to do so by your Building Coordinator, a law enforcement officer or other emergency services responder IMPORTANT: After any evacuation, report to your designated campus area assembly point. Stay there until an accurate head count is taken. The Building Coordinator will try to assist in the accounting for all building occupants. Electrical Failure Electrical failures can disrupt work and study activities throughout individual buildings or large areas of the campus. In order to ensure employee, student, and visitor safety, the following guidelines should be followed: Before a Power Outage Identify and prioritize vital power-dependent functions, operations, and equipment Plan ahead for short-term and longer-term impacts and needs Battery-powered flashlights should be kept at known locations, readily accessible during outages. Candles and other open flame devices are prohibited Keep duplicates of critical data Determine if there is emergency lighting in your area Keep flashlights in all work areas Develop strategies for resuming operations when power returns Short-Term Power Outage Assess the extent of the outage in your area Report outages to the UPD by dialing 911 or 978-3450 (cell phone) The UPD, Building Coordinators or a member of the Presidents’ Executive Team may make the decision to evacuate individual buildings If told to leave the building, lock or secure the work area, collect personal belongings and leave Reenter the building only when directed to do so by the UPD or other emergency responders If evacuation of the building is not necessary, restrict movement to areas that are adequately illuminated Report any losses or equipment damage to the UPD or Physical Plant, as soon as possible Response to Prolonged Power Outage Building coordinators should check their building elevators and initiate rescue efforts by notifying the UPD Only trained rescue personnel shall assist persons stranded in elevators 36 Move building occupants in darkened work areas to safe locations Keep refrigerators and freezers closed throughout the outage Unplug personal computers Unplug non-essential electrical equipment and appliances If possible, open windows for additional light and ventilation The Presidents’ Executive Team will make the decision to cancel classes or close business offices Report any losses or equipment damage to the UPD or Physical Plant as soon as possible After Power Outage Make sure that all power is restored before turning on any equipment The Physical Plant will ensure that all elevators are reset as well as fire and security alarms under their control Elevator Malfunction To ensure the safety of patrons or visitors and personnel who use, or maintain the elevators at the University, under no circumstances should anyone, other than a trained and experienced elevator technician attempt to perform repairs to an elevator or its associated equipment, or attempt to rescue any entrapped passenger(s) unless a bona fide emergency, such as a risk to life or a fire, exists. The only personnel authorized to access elevator shafts and cars, in other than normal usage, are the elevator technicians, the university's elevator contractors, or personnel under the direct supervision of an experienced elevator technician. Entrapped Person(s) All elevator cars are equipped with Emergency Telephones with direct lines to the UPD Dispatcher Persons trapped in the elevator car should immediately use the Emergency Telephone to describe the problem and their exact location Personnel who are on the scene should attempt to locate the car and communicate with the passenger(s) by any means available, including yelling through the closed shaft doorways Personnel should assure the passenger(s) that they are safe in the car, ask them to remain calm and inform them that help is on the way Check all floors to visually verify that all of the shaft doors are closed If a shaft door is found either fully or partially open, do not attempt to close Keep all others away from an open shaft door until the elevator technician arrives Identify the building and if the building contains multiple elevator units, identify the specific elevator number or elevator location (if in a bank of elevators) Locate the floor position of the elevator Verify whether or not the elevator is "empty" or there is an "entrapment". 37 Verify whether the elevator doors are "closed" or "open” Report the status of the elevator: Example: "Lindquist Hall, elevator #2, 3rd floor, the doors are open, the elevator is 6" above the floor, the main power has / has not been turned off" If the doors are open, after the power has been turned off, and after persons have been safely removed, if possible pull doors closed (even if they can only be partially closed). This will help keep the public from entering and possibly becoming trapped Fire WSU Policy and Procedure Manual Section 18.02 Emergency Assistance https://www.wichita.edu/about/policy/ch_18/ch18_02.php describes how community members should respond to fires Activate the Fire Alarm In the event of a fire, activate the nearest fire alarm. Take appropriate actions to ensure your personal safety Telephone the UPD From a safe location call the UPD by dialing 911 or 978-3450 (cell phone) Give your name and the exact location of the fire (room, floor, etc.) Be sure to stay on the phone until released by the 911 dispatcher If you are unable to leave the building make every effort to call the UPD by dialing 911 or 978-3450 (cell phone) and inform the 911 dispatcher of your exact location. Move to a room with a door as far from the fire as possible. Check any door that you open with the back of your hand to see if the door is hot - do not open a door that feels warm to the touch Evacuate the Building Ensure those in the general vicinity are aware of the evacuation Evacuate the building quickly and calmly by way of the nearest exit Shut off any major equipment or electronics before exiting the building Shut doors behind you to reduce the spread of fire. If there is heavy smoke, stay as close to the floor as possible DO NOT USE ELEVATORS! Upon exiting, proceed to a safe distance from the building Keep clear of emergency vehicles If possible report to the designated evacuation area for your building Stay with the group from your area or with your class Do not reenter the building until the "all-clear" has been given Evacuation for the Disabled Escort persons unable to negotiate stairs to an area near the emergency exit staircase After the emergency exit is clear of traffic, move them onto the landing of the emergency stairwell Do not attempt to move them down the stairs If you have information regarding the location of any individuals unable to evacuate the building, provide that information to arriving emergency personnel Be aware and prepared. All campus community members should plan their evacuation before a fire breaks out. Never ignore the smell of smoke or an alarm. Gas Leaks Natural gas is colorless, non-toxic and odorless, although an odorant is added as the gas is fed into the distribution system. Known as mercaptan, this odorant is an important safety measure because it provides a distinct smell (much like the smell of rotten eggs) in the event of a gas leak. Natural gas is lighter than air and rapidly dissipates into the air when it is released. If you smell gas or suspect a leak, cease all operations.Take appropriate actions to ensure your personal safety: If the gas smell is inside the building and windows can be easily opened, open to ventilate the area Leave the area at once and pull the nearest fire alarm to initiate evacuation of the building Call the UPD 911 from any campus phone or 978-3450 from a cell phone Give your name Provide the location of the incident (be as specific as possible) Describe what is happening Provide your current location (stay on the line, if possible) Evacuate the building by the nearest exit Report to the building entrance to inform emergency response personnel of the situation Emergency Building Coordinators and/or their designees will check occupied areas of their buildings and notify occupants that they must immediately evacuate the building by means of the nearest exit Exit quickly and calmly by way of the nearest exit to a safe distance from the building Leave sidewalks and streets free for emergency responders DO NOT USE ELEVATORS! Escort persons unable to negotiate stairs to area near emergency exit staircase After the emergency exit is clear of traffic, move them onto the landing of the emergency stairwell Do not attempt to move them down the stairs A staff person should go to the building entrance to inform arriving emergency personnel where any such persons are waiting Do not reenter the building until authorized to do so by the UPD or other emergency responders Medical Emergencies WSU Policy and Procedure Manual Section 18.02, Emergency Assistance, https://www.wichita.edu/about/policy/ch_18/ch18_02.php, describes how to respond to medical emergencies. Telephone the UPD Call the UPD 911 from any campus phone or 978-3450 from a cell phone  Give your name  Location of the incident (be as specific as possible)  Describe the medical emergency or how the injury occurred  If known, provide the medical history  Your current location (stay on the line, if possible)  Do not hang up unless released by the emergency operator Wait for the Emergency Medical Responders Generally, do not move the victim, unless the airway is obstructed and the airway can be established without further injury Keep the victim still and comfortable until help arrives In case of a minor injury or illness, students may be directed to the University Student Health Services Notifications Persons with serious or unusual medical problems should be encouraged to notify their supervisors or instructors of the medical problem and the standard emergency treatment related to that problem Tornadoes WSU Policy and Procedure Manual Section 20.04, Tornado Warnings, https://www.wichita.edu/about/policy/ch_20/ch20_04.php, describes how to respond to tornado warnings. Tornado Warning When activated, Sedgwick County Emergency Management will ALWAYS activate ALL tornado sirens in Sedgwick County at the same time, including the warning siren on the main campus Go to the designated shelter or SHELTER IN PLACE Move to the lowest level of the building away from windows or glass An interior hallway, stairwell or other room on the lowest floor or in the basement is preferred If disabled personnel cannot safely move to the lowest level of the building, assist to an interior hallway away from windows and areas with large expanse of glass Do not attempt to flee the tornado by foot or automobile Do not seek shelter in or under your car Do not use elevators Exterior doors should not be opened and all occupants should immediately proceed to shelter areas Monitor weather information transmitted over local radio and television stations Remain in the shelter area until the “all clear” is given by the National Weather Service, news media, or University staff or other emergency personnel If directed to evacuate the building, exit quickly and calmly by way of the nearest exit to a safe distance from the building Keep clear of emergency vehicles Leave sidewalks and roadways free for emergency responders Stay with the group from your area or with your class. REFERENCES The following resources were utilized in the creation of this plan: FEMA, (February 2006). Emergency planning: Independent study http://training.fema.gov/EMIWeb/downloads/IS235.pdf IACLEA, (2007). Campus emergency operations planning guidelines University of California - San Francisco, (October 2001). Emergency response management plan http://www.police.ucsf.edu/ermp.htmm University of Miami, (October 31. 2006). Disaster preparation and recovery: A plan for business continuity http://www6.miami.edu/emergency/2006_disaster_plan.pdff University of Missouri, (May 4, 2007). Emergency operations plan: Executive summary http://mualert.missouri.edu/documents/executive-summary.pdff University of San Francisco, (n.d.). Emergency operations plan http://www.usfca.edu/public_safety/pdffiles/Fall2006UpdatedEmergencyOpe rationsPlan2.pdff University of Wisconsin – Milwaukee, (October 22, 2007). Emergency operations plan http://www.uwm.edu/Dept/EHSRM/EMERGENCY/UWMEOP.pdf Virginia Tech, (May 2005). Emergency response plan, http://www.ehss.vt.edu/Programs/OSD/Emergency%20Planning/01_introdu ction.htm MD: CIPG EOP for WSU 11-10-09 Revision Date: October 9, 2018 Revision Date: January 17, 2019 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©