Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Resources For Families Community of Learners Events Get Involved Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards Hassenfeld Institute, Others Launch GO MOMs Study on Gestational Diabetes The Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute and Women & Infants Hospital of Rhode Island are participating in a new study supported by the National Institutes of Health to improve gestational diabetes screening and diagnosis by better understanding blood glucose levels throughout pregnancy. Gestational diabetes is usually diagnosed between the 24th and 28th week of pregnancy, which may be too late to counteract some long-lasting harm to the pregnant person and child. During pregnancy there are changes in glucose metabolism—the way glucose, often called blood sugar, is used in the body—to meet the needs of the developing fetus, but the details of these changes are unknown. With sites around the country, the Glycemic Observation and Metabolic Outcomes in Mothers and Offspring study, or GO MOMs, aims to fill in these knowledge gaps. The study will enroll about 2,150 people without diabetes and in their first trimester of pregnancy. Funded by NIH’s National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), GO MOMs will use continuous glucose monitoring technology to map blood glucose levels throughout pregnancy. “We are extremely excited to participate in GO MOMs, a study that will forever change how we identify abnormal glucose metabolism in pregnancy. The infrastructure and collaboration that the Hassenfeld Institute has fostered is one of the main reasons that we were able to secure this opportunity for patients across Rhode Island,” said Erika Werner, M.D., M.S., a principal investigator on GO MOMs and director of the Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine at Women & Infants Hospital. Dr. Werner is also a member of the Hassenfeld Institute’s executive committee. GO MOMs builds on a previous NIH-funded landmark study of hyperglycemia and adverse pregnancy outcomes and its follow-up, HAPO and HAPO-FUS, which found that people with elevated blood glucose during pregnancy – even if not high enough to meet the definition of gestational diabetes – are significantly more likely to develop type 2 diabetes or prediabetes years after pregnancy than their counterparts without elevated blood glucose. In addition, HAPO-FUS demonstrated that children born to people with elevated blood glucose during pregnancy were more likely to have obesity and impaired glucose metabolism a decade later. The effects in children, called metabolic imprinting, are thought to occur much earlier during pregnancy than when gestational diabetes is currently screened. The data collected from GO MOMs will help determine timing and approach for future clinical trials to understand when and how to screen for and treat elevated blood glucose in pregnancy, and if this treatment will have any effect on children years later. “By the time people are currently screened for gestational diabetes, it could be too late to avoid the long-lasting health effects,” said Dr. William Lowe, professor of medicine at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, and study chair for GO MOMs. “We hope to recruit a diverse group of GO MOMs participants to help pinpoint key changes during pregnancy and see if there are associations with a subsequent gestational diabetes diagnosis and large size at birth for the offspring.” Northwestern University is the study’s coordinating center and a study site. Other study locations include: · Columbia University, New York · Kaiser Center for Health Research, Honolulu · Kaiser Center for Health Research NW, Portland, Oregon · Magee Women’s Hospital, Pittsburgh · Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston · Tufts University, Boston · Women and Infants Hospital of Rhode Island, Providence · Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut “GO MOMs will provide precise insight into glucose changes during pregnancy, informing future innovations in diabetes prevention,” said NIDDK Director Dr. Griffin P. Rodgers. “This study sets the stage for healthier generations to come.” The study is open now for people in their first trimester of pregnancy without diabetes and willing to use a continuous glucose monitoring device for 10 days at four times during their pregnancy. To learn more and enroll, www.GoMomsStudy.org. GO MOMs is funded by the NIDDK. Dexcom is providing the continuous glucose monitors. Jun 11, 2021 Recent news: Wed Oct 20 Three Innovation Awards Focus on Childhood Disparities in a Single Core City Thu Jul 22 Hassenfeld Institute to Resume In-Person Recruitment for Postnatal Study Fri Jun 11 Hassenfeld Institute, Others Launch GO MOMs Study on Gestational Diabetes Thu Jun 10 Half-Decade of Progress at Hassenfeld Institute is High Five for Children's Health Mon May 24 Healthy Weight Initiative to Examine Self-Regulation and Infant Growth Tue May 18 Brown School of Public Health Joins Task Force to Support Schools and Districts with Implementing CDC Guidance Thu Mar 25 Hassenfeld Institute Awards $30K in Innovation Awards to Community, State Groups Thu Feb 18 Hassenfeld Study Provides Opportunity to Examine Impact of COVID-19 on R.I. Families Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top