Skip to main content Faculty Research Clusters Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems (RISES) Skip to Section About the Cluster News Projects and Publications Degree Programs Faculty Cluster Lead: Zhihua Qu, Ph.D. Pegasus Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering [email protected] UCF’s Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems Cluster, or RISES, works to develop sustainable and resilient energy systems and storage to make sure we have power and stay connected when disasters strike. The cluster focuses upon holistic analysis, design, development and deployment of distributed renewable energy resources, including advanced information, communication, control and optimization technologies and the economic and management policies that go along with them. This research helps integrate renewable resources into the power generation mix while generating better power quality and allowing energy customers to make informed and environmentally conscientious decisions. Media & Other Resources: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) announced the University of Central Florida as the national winner of its seventh CyberForce Competition®, held on November 13. The event challenged 120 U.S. college and university teams from 33 states and the District of Columbia to thwart a simulated cyberattack. “As cyber threats grow and we continue to develop the clean energy grid of the future, recruiting and retaining a highly skilled workforce to protect and defend our nation’s energy systems is critical,” said Deputy Secretary of Energy David Turk. “I’m proud of the students who joined us this past weekend to expand their cyber skills and knowledge, while channeling their passion for cybersecurity.” Dr. Kelly Stevens, Assistant professor in UCF’s School of Public Administration and RISES research cluster initiative member, along with researchers at Ohio University, authored a report that argued for relaxing state regulations regarding what are known as power purchase agreements. They worked with Solar United Neighbors, a nonprofit that promotes solar energy production, along with RISES on the study. It concluded that by paving the way for more solar energy production could result in a $3 billion boost to the State of Florida along with supporting 18,000 jobs. “The standards have improved, the technology has improved, but the rules haven’t changed,” Stevens said. “And so, there’s still these added requirements and insurance liability requirements that really add to the cost that make it more cost prohibitive for customers who would like to add solar to their property.” The full story can be found here, with Spectrum News13 UCF Colleges Involved with Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems (RISES) Research: RISES Center College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Optics and Photonics Florida Solar Energy Center College of Community Innovation and Education In The News UCF Researchers Selected for 4 Solar Awards from U.S. Department of Energy — Most of Any University Issued by the Solar Energy Technologies Office, the awards total $9.64 million and will be used on projects ranging from… Easing Solar Power Restrictions May Benefit Florida’s Economy and Environment, Study Finds Current state regulations are not conducive to allowing power purchase agreements for solar energy production in Florida, according to the… New UCF Project Will Put Downtown Orlando Air Quality Data in Residents’ Hands More than 100 air sensors will be installed throughout Downtown Orlando and will provide near-real-time data about air quality to… Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems (RISES) Research Projects A Secure, Trustworthy, and Reliable Air Quality Monitoring System for Smart and Connected Communities Foundations for Engineering Education for Distributed Energy Resources Autonomous Inverter Controls for Resilient and Secure Grid Operation: Vector Control Design for Grid Forming Building Intelligence with Layered Defense using Security-Constrained Optimization and Security Risk Detection Smart Infrastructure Data Analytics Scalable/Secure Cooperative Algorithms and Framework for Extremely-high Penetration Solar Integration Characterization of Contact Degradation in Crystalline Silicon PV Modules, Photovoltaics Research and Development 2 Impact Analysis of Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) in Florida GE/FP&L Microgrid Control Lab Smart Energy-Water Nexus Optimizing Information Value in Heterogeneous Multi-agent Transportation Systems (OPTIMA) Publications “Variational Autoencoder Generative Adversarial Network for Synthetic Data Generation in Smart Home”, Damla Turgut, Ph.D., Mina Razghandi, Ph.D., Hao Zhou, Ph.D., Melike Erol-Kantarci, Ph.D., Accepted to appear at IEEE ICC 2022: May, 2022 “Short-Term Load Forecasting for Smart Home Appliances with Sequence to Sequence Learning”, Damla Turgut, Ph.D., Mina Razghandi, Ph.D., Hao Zhou, Ph.D., Melike Erol-Kantarci, Ph.D., ICC 2021 - IEEE International Conference on Communications pp. 1-6: Aug, 2021 “Building an Interdisciplinary Team for Disaster Response Research: A Data-Driven Approach”, Yue Ge, Ph.D., Christopher W. Zobel, Ph.D., Pamela Murray-Tuite, Ph.D., Roshanak Nateghi, Ph.D., Haizhong Wang, Ph.D., Risk Analysis 41(7), 1145-1151: Feb, 2019 “Urban resilience for building a sustainable and safe environment”, Yue Ge, Ph.D., Naim Kapucu, Ph.D., Yago Martín, Ph.D., Zoe Williamson, Ph.D., Urban Governance 1(1), 10-16: Oct, 2021 “Optimal Operation of Power Systems with Energy Storage under Uncertainty: A Scenario-based Method with Strategic Sampling”, Qifeng Li, Ph.D., Ren Hu, Ph.D., IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, 2021 (Impact factor: 8.96): Jul, 2021 “Evaluate the capacity of electricity-driven water facilities in small communities as virtual energy storage”, Qifeng Li, Ph.D., Applied Energy vol. 309: Jan, 2022 “A Stochastic Multiagent Optimization Framework for Interdependent Transportation and Power System Analyses”, Zhaomiao Guo, Ph.D., Junjian Qi, Ph.D., Fatima Afifah, Ph.D., Sina Baghali, Ph.D., IEEE Transactions on Transportation Electrification vol. 7, no. 3, pp. 1088-1098: Jan, 2021 “The cost of utility discretion on residential solar requirements”, Kelly Stevens, Ph.D., Kris Davis, Ph.D., Sara Iman, Ph.D., Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 159, 112231: Feb, 2022 Smart grid control: An overview and research opportunities, Zhihua Qu, Ph.D., Jakob Stoustrup, Ph.D., Anuradha Annaswamy, Ph.D., Aranya Chakrabortty, Ph.D. Springer: 2022 Renewable energy integration and system operation challenge: Control and optimization of millions of devices, Wei Sun, Ph.D., Zhihua Qu, Ph.D., in New Technologies for Power System Operation and Analysis, Huaiguang Jiang, Yingchen Zhang, and Eduard Muljadi (Eds.) Elsevier Inc: 2020 Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems (RISES) Degree Programs UCF offers a B.S. in Electrical Engineering with a Power and Renewable Energy Track that provides knowledge in power system operation and control, renewable energy integration, machines, microgrid design and operation, power markets and data analytics. For more programs, search UCF programs below. Search Programs B.S. in Electrical Engineering -- Power and Renewable Energy Track Sustainable and Resilient Energy Systems Graduate Certificate Technologies for Smart Communities Graduate Certificate Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems (RISES) Faculty Kris Davis, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering Email [email protected] Aleksandar Dimitrovski, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Email [email protected] Chinwendu Enyioha, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Email [email protected] Yaser Fallah, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Email [email protected] Zhaomiao Guo, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Civil, Environmental and Construction Engineering Email [email protected] Samiul Hasan, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Civil, Environmental and Construction Engineering Email [email protected] Naim Kapucu, Ph.D. Pegasus Professor of Public Administration Email [email protected] Qifeng Li, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Email [email protected] Junjian Qi, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Email [email protected] Zhihua Qu, Ph.D. Thomas J. Riordan and Herbert C. Towle Chair and Pegasus Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Email [email protected] Robert Reedy Director, Solar Systems Research Email [email protected] Kelly Stevens, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Public Administration Email [email protected] Wei Sun, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Email [email protected] Damla Turgut, Ph.D. Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] Azadeh Vosoughi, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Email [email protected] Qun Zhou, Ph.D. Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Email [email protected] Yue Ge, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Public Administration Email [email protected] UCF Research Clusters Faculty Clusters Home Biionix Cyber Security and Privacy Disability, Aging and Technology (DAT) Genomics and Bioinformatics Learning Sciences Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation (REACT) Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems (RISES) Sustainable Coastal Systems Violence Against Women (VAW) Additional Research Links World-class Faculty Research Technology Transfer Ethics and Compliance Research Development Areas of Excellence 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816