Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Engineering Management Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Engineering Management Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Engineering Management Certificate (Graduate) Our Faculty Engineering Management Certificate Earn Temple University’s Graduate Certificate in Engineering Management, and expand your career prospects by adding business acumen to your engineering expertise. This graduate-level program will help you develop the critical management skills that will make it easier for you to advance professionally. This certificate program introduces engineering professionals and graduates to the basic concepts of business management from the perspective of technology professionals and critical issues around new product development and market success for new technologies. The certificate is a great starting point for those who are considering pursuing a Master of Science in Engineering Management degree. Classes & Curriculum In addition to management principles, students can choose two electives in financial management, project management, management of the product development process or Six Sigma quality control and improvement principles. All are taught within the context of engineering design and development. The coursework is delivered in collaboration with the Fox School of Business and Management. Though students must complete the required course in the College of Engineering, elective courses may be taken from either school. Credit Requirements To earn this certificate, you must complete three courses (nine credits), including one required course, Management Principles for Innovators, Engineers and Technologists. All nine credits may be transferred to the Master of Science in Engineering Management program. Additional Engineering Management credits require matriculation into a degree program. For information about your maximum time limit for completing this certificate program, contact the department at gradengr@temple.edu or 215-204-7800. Delivery method (online, in-person or hybrid) You can complete the graduate certificate online, in person on Temple’s Main Campus or in a hybrid format that combines the two. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,546.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Contact Us If you have any questions about our graduate programs, the admissions process or other general inquiries, do not hesitate to contact us. Phone: 215-204-7800 Email: gradengr@temple.edu Please note: International students may not be eligible to apply for a student visa based on admission to this certificate program. EN-EMGT-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Engineering Management Certificate (Graduate) Our Faculty Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info