Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Middle Grades Education Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Middle Grades Education Major Apply Visit Request More Info Middle Grades Education Major Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Education in Middle Grades Education The Bachelor of Science in Education (BSEd) in Middle Grades Education offers undergraduate students the knowledge and instructional expertise necessary to teach students in grades four through eight. Students examine pre-adolescent and adolescent development to learn how to connect with learners. They become certified to teach all elementary subjects for grades 4 through 6. They also master middle grades instructional theory and methods for classroom management, English language learners, inclusive classrooms, literacy and students with special needs. Students in the Middle Grades Education program can also develop dual- or single-subject area expertise in language arts, mathematics, science or social studies for grades 7 and 8, and field experiences start as early as sophomore year. Students will also work with special education needs students during junior year. A semester of student teaching completes the degree. Concentrations You will focus on all subjects for grades 4 through 6, as well as one of the following concentrations. Language Arts Develop the foundation for a career as a language arts educator for upper elementary and middle school students. Help meet a growing need for teachers, particularly among underserved populations. This program emphasizes teaching grammar, the foundations of language and literacy teaching, and literature. View Concentration Details Mathematics Help young minds develop a foundation for algebra, calculus and geometry in the middle grades. Take coursework focused on teaching the basic concepts of mathematics for future study and application. Gain real-world experience through fieldwork in the classroom. View Concentration Details Mathematics and Language Arts Graduate with dual math and language arts certification to teach students in grades 7 and 8. You’ll specialize in concepts of written and verbal communication, and as well as teaching algebra, calculus and geometry. In addition to dual certification, you’ll gain certification for teaching all subjects for grades 4 through 6. View Concentration Details Mathematics and Science Pursue dual certification in mathematics and science teaching. This program emphasizes teaching math and science to students in grades 7 and 8. Study the fundamentals of education theory, natural and empirical science education, and the basis of algebra, calculus and geometry. View Concentration Details Science Form the basis for teaching biology, chemistry, environmental science, physics and more to future generations. Deepen your understanding of classroom management and teaching theory and practice. You’ll gain field experience at local schools to build the foundation for a career in one or more areas of science. View Concentration Details Science and Language Arts Earn certification to teach all subjects to students in grades 4 through 6, plus certification to teach science and language arts to students in grades 7 and 8. Focus on teaching and learning literacy, scientific principles, and historical and modern literature. View Concentration Details Social Studies Help future generations become informed citizens and expand their worldviews. You’ll develop the skills necessary to teach U.S. and world history, economics, and social and political development. The curriculum includes time spent teaching middle-grade students in the Philadelphia’s schools. View Concentration Details Teacher Certification This program prepares you to successfully complete state certification exams, allowing you to apply for a Pennsylvania Instructional I Teaching Certificate. Learn more about certification. Related Graduate Degrees Accomplished Teaching MSEd Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd Educational Leadership and Policy MEd with a concentration in Urban Education Special Education MEd Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages MSEd Related Graduate Certificates Autism Endorsement English as a Second Language Instructional Learning Technology Review the full list of the College of Education and Human Development’s graduate degree and certificate programs. +1 Accelerated Programs For particularly focused students, the College of Education and Human Development offers accelerated programs. Qualified students can earn bachelor’s and master’s degrees in one five-year course of study instead of the usual six years. Learn more about the College of Education and Human Development’s +1 accelerated programs, and explore the accelerated option for the Middle Grades Education degree. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. It also presents opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Explore the opportunities available through organizations such as Be The Change, an organization that provides education and healthcare services to communities in North Philadelphia and overseas; Black Diamonds Union, which works to celebrate and disseminate education about black culture at Temple University and in Philadelphia’s wider urban community; College of Education and Human Development Student Council, a group that provides students with leadership opportunities and a chance to effect change; Grandma’s Kids, a K through grade 5 afterschool program that focuses on homework, as well as academic, emotional and social support; Jumpstart, a national early education organization that trains students to work with preschool children in low-income neighborhoods; Kappa Delta Pi Honor Society, which promotes academic excellence and a network for those who are committed to teaching; The Petey Greene Program at Temple University, an organization that supports prisoner education by training volunteers to provide weekly tutoring sessions to inmates in four correctional facilities in Philadelphia; Temple University - Students Teaching Underrepresented Developing Youth (TU-STUDY), a group that assists children and adults in the greater Philadelphia area with advising, tutoring and other kinds of support in overcoming learning challenges; Temple Student Pennsylvania State Education Association, which increases esteem for educational professions among teacher candidates, constructively affects the process of teacher education and represents students regarding these issues; and Treehouse Books, a literacy center near Temple’s Main Campus where students can engage in literacy service work. Search for additional College of Education and Human Development and education-related student organizations. Program Contact Tim Fukawa-Connelly, associate professor of teaching and learning, is the faculty program coordinator for the Middle Grades Education Major. Phone: 215-204-6206 Email: tim.fc@temple.edu Our Academic Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. College of Education and Human Development students are encouraged to see an academic advisor every semester. Study Away Opportunities Education majors gain experience teaching English overseas in Italy, Jamaica, Japan and other countries. Learn more about studying abroad and explore a list of government-sponsored teaching abroad scholarships. Certification The Middle Grades Education program is approved as a teacher certification program by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-MGRE-BSED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Middle Grades Education Major Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info