Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Legal Affairs & General Counsel General Counsel right arrow down arrow Office of General Counsel right arrow down arrow Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Enterprise Risk Management right arrow down arrow Insurance & Claims right arrow down arrow Insurance Verification or Claims History right arrow down arrow Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training right arrow down arrow Drones right arrow down arrow Flight Request Form Fleet Safety right arrow down arrow Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process right arrow down arrow Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Privacy Internal Audit Home » About UC » Legal Affairs & General Counsel » Enterprise Risk Management Set Navigation title in component Insurance & Claims Insurance Verification or Claims History Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training Drones Flight Request Form Fleet Safety Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Enterprise Risk Management Under the Office of General Counsel, Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) aims to build collaborative relationships across the University to evaluate and manage risk. The Basics Risk is uncertainty, caused by internal and/or external factors with the potential to impact (either positively or negatively) the University’s ability to achieve its Strategic Direction. Enterprise Risk Management is simply a process to deal with that uncertainty, comprised of four major steps: Risk Identification Risk Analysis/Evaluation Risk Treatment Risk Monitoring Managing risk is part of all activities associated with the University, and affects every department, unit and person. In that way, we consider Everyone a Risk Manager! Benefits of Enterprise Risk Management ERM prioritizes response and action to the risks that have the most impact on the University and its mission. The mitigation of these risks saves money, time, reputation and lives. ERM is a cyclical process that continuously improves the University’s management of current and emerging risks. ERM engages the entire University and promotes communication across departments. What keeps you up at night? What gets you up in the morning? ERM helps address these questions and provides peace of mind. Leadership Commitment Managing risk is an integral part of governance and assists the university in setting strategy, achieving objectives and making informed decisions. The University’s leadership has shown tremendous support for the ERM program. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top