Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office of First Generation Student Success Programs Leadership Opportunities Events Resources First-Gen Stories Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Explore Our First-Gen Programs Learn more about Opportunity Scholars, mentoring programs and more We're here to help! Explore resources for first-gen students Learn. Lead. Grow. Take Advantage of a Leadership Opportunity – Get involved in Frosh Camp, Tiger Leadership Institute and more. Are you a first-gen student? You're not alone! Hear stories from fellow students who have been in your shoes PreviousNext Take Action Get Involved FAQs and Quick Links Scholarships Contact Us Follow Us Online Instagramtwitter Home First Generation Student Success Welcome First-Generation Students! What does it mean to be #UofMFirstGen? "First Generation" is a term used to identify a student whose parents have not earned a post-secondary degree. In other words, you are the FIRST in your family to attend and graduate from college. There are thousands of students at the University of Memphis who are the first in their family to attend college, and many of the UofM's faculty and staff are #firstgenmem too including our very own President, Dr. M. David Rudd. Being a first gen student means that you have an outstanding opportunity to write your own story, create your own community, and thrive here at the UofM! To do so, it is important that you take advantage of the supportive resources and programs provided to you at no cost. Our mission is to provide individual and collective support to all First-Generation students across campus through holistic coaching and counseling. The OFGSS serves as an info hub to connect first-gen students & their families to all campus resources & departments. Other efforts and activities include: 1:1 mentoring, leadership development, career planning, financial aid opportunities, special events, and the tools for students to achieve their personal and academic goals, all while fostering a sense of belonging on campus. The University of Memphis is proud to be recognized as a First-Gen Forward campus by the Center for First-Generation Student Success. We have received this designation because of our commitment to ensuring first-generation students achieve their goals. We help first-generation students through programs and services as well as working with faculty and staff across the campus to increase understanding of this diverse population of students. Join our Peer Mentor Program Need help navigating campus, choosing a major or just need someone to talk to who has been through the same journey as a first-gen student? Click the link below to sign up to be matched with one of our Office of First Gen Student Success peer mentors. Find the information and the help that you need through 1:1 peer mentoring sessions that cover any and everything from classes and scholarships to on-campus jobs and career planning. Get Paired with a Peer Mentor> Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/19/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.