Skip to main content Baylor Business - Hankamer School of Business Baylor University About HSB Student Resources Giving Contact Undergraduate #BU26 Graduate MBA Programs Army-Baylor Programs Master of Business Analytics Master of Information Systems Master of Economics Master of Accountancy Master of Taxation Doctorate in Entrepreneurship Doctorate in Health Services Research Doctorate in Information Systems Areas of Study Accounting & Business Law Baylor Business Fellows Economics Entrepreneurship & Corporate Innovation Finance, Insurance & Real Estate Information Systems & Business Analytics Marketing Management Centers & Institutes Entrepreneurship Family Business Financial Markets Health Policy & Leadership International Business Nonprofit Leadership Professional Selling Real Estate Sales & Marketing Sports Strategy and Sales Technology Center Ethics News Research Report About Us Career Center Alumni Home Keller Center Research Report Keller Center for Research HSB > Keller Center for Research > Research Report March 2022 (Vol. 15, Iss. 1) Job Flexibility Enhances Working Mothers’ Career Aspirations and Reduces Gender Gaps Julia B. Bear, PhD The gender gap in pay in the real estate industry is larger than the average gap across industries, and there are also stark gender gaps in career advancement to top leadership positions in the real estate industry. This research explores how job flexibility increases, rather than detracts from, promotion aspirations among working mothers, an important implication for managers looking to recruit and promote female employees and chip away at persistent gender gaps. Keywords: Management (READ THIS ARTICLE) Eliminating Toxicity through Servant Leadership Mitchell J. Neubert, PhD, Emily M. Hunter, PhD, and Remy C. Tolentino, MSN Incivility, rudeness, and a general disrespect for others has risen steeply in the workplace in recent years, affecting not only employees, but also customers and third parties in contact with employees. Servant leaders, those who put the needs of others above their own, serve as a critical force in preventing group-level incivility through promoting a virtuous work climate. Keywords: Management (READ THIS ARTICLE) The Science Behind a Smile and a Social Media Share Daniel McDuff, PhD and Jonah Berger, PhD The benefits of earned media–or zero-cost advertising through social media sharing–within the real estate industry are invaluable. Contrary to prior studies, our research finds that specific emotional expressions have distinct effects on social sharing, allowing firms to more easily pinpoint what emotions an advertisement should aim to evoke and thus what content is more likely to be shared. Keywords: Social Media (READ THIS ARTICLE) What to Look for in Your Next Sales Hire Willy Bolander, PhD, Cinthia B. Satornino, PhD, Alexis M. Allen, PhD, Bryan Hochstein, PhD, and Riley Dugan, PhD What do you prioritize on a job candidate resume? Prior selling experience or a formal sales education? Our research examines the effects of both on newly hired salespeople's performance trajectories over time, along with the impact of manager coaching behaviors. Our results provide insights into the benefits and drawbacks of each hiring heuristic along with recommendations for how to coach new salespeople depending on which heuristic led to their hire. Keywords: Management (READ THIS ARTICLE) Applying Adaptive Selling Techniques: Exploring How Dr. Sascha Alavi, Dr. Johannes Habel, and Dr. Kim Linsenmayer While research suggests adaptive selling is a core ingredient of sales success, the question of how salespeople should alter their behavior in response to varying customer attributes has remained unclear. Our research and recommendations offer managerial insight to capitalize on the genuine benefits of adaptive selling to lead to greater success organization-wide. Keywords: Customer Relations, Marketing and Sales (READ THIS ARTICLE) INSIDER: The Power of Discipline Corrie A. H. Penraat, MBA Did you know only about 10% of New Year's resolutions are achieved? Research cites the biggest reason people fail is a lack of self-discipline. In this Insider, we explore Daniel Walter's advice on how to increase self-discipline and move your ordinary to extraordinary. Keywords: Insider (READ THIS ARTICLE) INSIDER: Shut Up and Listen! Kristen Koehler, MBA Candidate In his latest book, business leader Tilman Fertitta emphasizes that even when you think your business is performing at its best, there is always something lurking around the corner that could make your business obsolete. Fertitta warns that you should never, ever stop worrying about your business. Keywords: Insider, Management (READ THIS ARTICLE) Search Site Map About Us Research Report Archives Contributors Subscribe News Quick Links Subscribe to the Report View the Latest Issue Contact Us Keller_Center@baylor.edu Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Baylor Business Links About HSB Advisory Board Baylor Business Brand Events Maps & Directions News Find Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Podcast RSS Feed Resources and Tools Canvas Digital Measures Directory Faculty/Staff Resources HSB Policies Student Resources Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University Waco, Texas 76798 1-800-BAYLOR-U