Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory CareerLAB About Us About Us CareerLAB works in collaboration with departments across campus to connect students with Brown’s rich array of career resources. We help students identify their skills, interests and values; explore a wide range of career options; and articulate their unique experiences to employers and graduate or professional programs. Through CareerLAB students can: Connect with knowledgeable advisors to develop personal career search plans. Develop skills and knowledge necessary for successful job and internship searches. Meet alumni and find internships through the BrownConnect program. Access hundreds of high-quality job and internship opportunities. Apply for internship funding through the LINK program. Wheelchair Accessibility CareerLAB's accessible entrace can be found in the rear of the building as shown in the diagram below. Home Career Education Undergradate & Graduate Recruiting BrownConnect About Us Staff FAQs Post-Graduate Data A Guide for Parents CareerLAB the Podcast Academic Year Hours: Monday-Friday: 8:30am -5pm Peer Career Advisor Hours: Learn more here. Email: PeerCareerAdvisors @brown.edu Doctoral Candidates: Email: [email protected] Reserve an interview room Follow us: Subscribe to our Recruiting E-Newsletter Contact us: Box 1907 | 167 Angell Street | Providence, RI 02912 | 401.863.3326 | [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Social Media like us on facebook follow us on twitter see what we're up to on instagram subscribe to our youtube channel Get Started Find a job or internship!