Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Menu About Us Faculty & Staff Kristen Padilla Adrianna Martinez Grant B. Morgan Tracey Sulak Tonya Davis Stephanie Gerow Jessica Akers Kelsey Ragan Tamara Hodges School of Education Contact Us Newsletter Events News Baylor University Corona Response Programs/Services ABA Skill Building Program ABA Severe Problem Behavior Program Feeding and Mealtime Behavior Intervention Program Assessment Services Therapeutic Groups Autism Summer Camp Professional Development Clinics Clinic for Assessment, Research, and Education Baylor Autism Resource Clinic Baylor Spring Literacy Clinic Grant Projects Caregiver Coaching PEAKS Project ACT LEND Partner with BCDD Start a Clinic/Program Conduct Research Parent Resources Applications Forms Make a Gift Events Center for Development Disabilities The Baylor University Center for Developmental Disabilities concentrates on addressing the complex issues of autism and other developmental conditions through its cooperative research, educational, and service programs. The Center is a collaborative partnership with Baylor University and Baylor Scott & White McLane Children's, which is part of the Scott & White Health Care System. About Us Services & Programs The Center concentrates on addressing the complex issues of ASD and other developmental conditions through its cooperative research, educational, and service programs. Clinic for Assessment, Research, and Education CARE services include functional behavior assessments, behavioral therapy using Applied Behavior Analysis theory and practice, as well as consultation, and educational assessments. Baylor Autism Resource Clinic BARC provides a variety of services for children with developmental disabilities, specifically with ASD. Baylor Spring Literacy Clinic The BCDD hosts an annual Spring Literacy clinic that offers 14 hours of free, individualized literacy instruction. Center Spotlight Oso Able Transition Fair We had a our first great first OSO ABLE conference! Oso Able was a half-day event for young adults with disabilities as well as their parents to explore the wonderful opportunities available for postsecondary educational and vocational experiences. The Oso Able conference was also open to professionals and service providers in the community who provide transition services and supports for individuals with development disabilities. As part of the conference, we hosted a college/program resource fair at the closing of the event as well. Thank you to all who attended and contributed to make this event so successful! We look forward to hosting this event again next year, so be on the lookout! Read More BaylorLights Profile: Kristen Padilla-Mainor Kristen Padilla-Mainor, Director of the Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities (BCDD) said, "Ask yourself, 'Why do you think God put you there? They don't need more light in bright places. That's an opportunity for you to shine.' I've kept that with me." Read More Best of Texas School of Education student Stephanie Wright of Plano was named “Student Teacher of the Year” for the State of Texas by the Texas Directors of Field Experience (TDFE), the organization of faculty members within university teacher-education programs who supervise field experiences. Read More More News Partner With A Program To advance our mission and vision, the BCDD partners with other Baylor departments and programs, as well as agencies and organizations outside of the university. Our partners include: Department of Educational Psychology Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Baylor Scott & White McLane Children's Office of Access and Learning Accommodation Start a Clinic or Program There are great opportunities to start a program or clinic to train students to work with children with disabilities. Conduct Research Our faculty and staff have a wide variety of research interests relating to assessment and intervention for children with developmental disabilities. Become a Partner Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Within the Hillcrest MacArthur Clinic 2201 MacArthur Drive Suite 101 Waco, TX 76708 254.537.1042 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Faculty & Staff Kristen Padilla Adrianna Martinez Grant B. Morgan Tracey Sulak Tonya Davis Stephanie Gerow Jessica Akers Kelsey Ragan Tamara Hodges School of Education Contact Us Newsletter Events News Baylor University Corona Response Programs/Services ABA Skill Building Program ABA Severe Problem Behavior Program Feeding and Mealtime Behavior Intervention Program Assessment Services Therapeutic Groups Autism Summer Camp Professional Development Clinics Clinic for Assessment, Research, and Education Baylor Autism Resource Clinic Baylor Spring Literacy Clinic Grant Projects Caregiver Coaching PEAKS Project ACT LEND Partner with BCDD Start a Clinic/Program Conduct Research Parent Resources Applications Forms Make a Gift Events