Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Pediatrics Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Campus News What to do while waiting for COVID vaccines for kids under 5 It’s still important to protect your children and the people around them to prevent hospitalization and COVID’s worst outcomes. Topic Public Health How Parents Can Manage the Baby Formula Shortage Columbia pediatrician Lauren Levine shares her insights on resources to try, ways to plan, and what never to do. How to teach a child to swallow a pill The advanced form of drinking required to swallow a pill is a skill to acquire like any other. Topic General Medicine Latest News Weighty Matters: Q&A with Obesity Expert Michael Rosenbaum July 12, 2017 Michael Rosenbaum, MD, director of the new FIT clinic at Columbia for treatment of pediatric obesity, explains his research on weight loss and metabolism. Topic Medical School Obesity Prevention Program for Preschoolers Shows Promise June 27, 2017 A communitywide intervention for families who receive WIC benefits reduced obesity risk factors in preschoolers. Topic Diabetes CUIMC Community Celebrates Diversity Day March 8, 2017 This year's event featured a presentation by guest speaker Aletha Maybank, deputy commissioner of the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. Topic Campus News NYC Toddlers Exposed to Potentially Harmful Flame Retardants January 31, 2017 Traces of flame retardants were found on the hands of all 3-year-olds in a Mailman study of 25 households in New York City. Topic Public Health Children Undergoing Heart Surgery at CUMC Have State's Best Outcomes December 20, 2016 Children who had heart surgery at NYP/CUMC had a significantly lower risk-adjusted mortality rate compared with all other New York state programs. Topic Heart Health Antidepressants in Pregnancy Associated with Language Disorder in Kids October 14, 2016 Children born to mothers who filled more than one SSRI prescription during pregnancy had a slightly greater risk of having a language disorder, a new study reported. Topic Depression CUMC Joins Food Allergy Research Network July 12, 2016 CUMC/NYP will serve as a clinical trial site for patients with food allergies as part of the Food Allergy Research & Education (FARE) Clinical Network. Topic Research New York Times: Leaving the Pediatrician? Not at 26 Source: The New York Times June 23, 2016 Anesthesia is Safe in the Young, Study Finds June 7, 2016 A single exposure to general anesthesia poses no cognitive risk to children under age three, according to a multicenter study led by researchers at Columbia University Medical Center and NewYork-Presbyterian/Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital. Topic Medical School How Poverty Is Toxic for Children’s Brains May 11, 2016 Mailman experts are developing strategies to protect children from the stresses of poverty that alter the architecture of the developing brain. Topic Public Health Pages first previous … 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top