Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Jobs and Internships Home Jobs and Internships Jobs and Internships Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Prepare for Your Search There is no single way to find a job or internship. Your search will be unique to you and your goals. The Career Center is here to partner with you on your way to finding a meaningful career. The resources on the following pages will help you launch your job or internship search, prepare your application materials, interview, and evaluate offers. Launch Your Search Be Career Ready Internship Search Post-Graduation Job Search Prepare to Apply Resumes Put your best foot forward with a concise summation of your skills, education, goals, and experience. Learn More Cover Letters Introduce yourself to a potential employer while demonstrating your communication skills and professionalism. Learn More Your Online Presence A carefully crafted LinkedIn profile can help you establish connections and explore companies and industries. Learn More Networking Put yourself out there by setting up informational interviews or talking with acquaintances about your career goals. Learn More Interviewing Whether it's in person or by phone, brushing up on interview etiquette will help you make a great impression. Learn More Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Learn how to evaluate a job offer and negotiate for the salary you deserve. Learn More Quick Links Handshake Career Clusters Campus Recruiting Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Resources Now Playing Job Searching During a Pandemic Workshop This is a unique (and stressful) time to be searching for a job. Rachel Greenberg, Director of Career Education & Strategy, shares strategies for this search, including keys to success in this virtual environment and searching during a recession. From the Career Center Blog No Summer Internship? No Problem! 5 Ways to Have a Productive Summer Beyond an Internship While internships are a great way to gain skills and explore a career field, many students seem to think that May 02, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Understanding Your AAPI Identity in the Workplace Everyone brings their own set of values and identities to their career and workplace. As someone who identifies as a April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Should I Disclose My Disability During a Job Search? Many students with a disability struggle with the question of disclosure during the job and internship search process. “Will disclosure April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Staying Positive During the Job Search Like many of life’s challenges, searching for jobs and internships can be emotionally taxing. Unlike most challenges, the effort you April 19, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Science, Technology & Engineering The Eagle Intern Fellowship (EIF) provides financial support to Boston College undergraduates with demonstrated financial need who obtain summer internships April 14, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Making a Decision on Job Offers “Congratulations, our company is pleased to offer you the position!” Receiving communication like this, whether via email or a phone, April 11, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam No Summer Internship? No Problem! 5 Ways to Have a Productive Summer Beyond an Internship While internships are a great way to gain skills and explore a career field, many students seem to think that May 02, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Understanding Your AAPI Identity in the Workplace Everyone brings their own set of values and identities to their career and workplace. As someone who identifies as a April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Should I Disclose My Disability During a Job Search? Many students with a disability struggle with the question of disclosure during the job and internship search process. “Will disclosure April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College