Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Visitors to Brown Visiting Scientists and Scholars The Campus Foreign Visitor Protocol subcommittee of the Science and Security Working Group is currently assessing Brown's processes related to visiting scientists and scholars. This page will be updated when that subcommittee completes its work. Foreign Scholar and Visitor Screening Brown University screens certain foreign scholars and visitors to ensure compliance with federal regulations, and to provide guidance and education to hosting departments and visitors on applicable export control and sanctions regulations. Specifically, screening is required for the following groups: Any visitor or visiting scholar from a comprehensively embargoed country or territory[1]; Any scholar sponsored by Brown University for an H-1B or O-1 visa; Any visitor or visiting scholar coming to Brown University on a J visa. Why are these groups screened? The screening process is primarily used to determine if a foreign scholar or visitor is a restricted national or is affiliated with a restricted country, group, entity, or organization. If the former, Brown cannot host/sponsor the individual; if the latter, the Office of Research Integrity (ORI) will provide specific guidance to the hosting department on regulatory restrictions related to hosting and interacting with the foreign visitor who is affiliated with a restricted party. ORI will also provide guidance to the visitor to ensure that they do not accidentally violate any U.S. export control or sanctions laws while being here. The screening process is also used to determine if government licenses and authorizations are needed prior to sharing technology and technical data with the visiting scholar. In the case of H-1B and O-1 visa applicants, this process is also used to make a deemed export attestation, which is a federal requirement. How are the groups screened? The screening is conducted by the Export Control Compliance Group within the Office of Research Integrity (ORI) at Brown, using a web-based screening tool called “Visual Compliance.” Move information about Brown's screening procedures can be found here. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities University & Sponsor Disclosures Brown Resources and Policies International Travel & Collaborations Visitors to Brown Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat