Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Graduation Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Graduation > Keynote Speaker Graduation Menu Search for: Home Class of 2022 Response form 2022 University Commencement Regalia Affinity Graduation Celebrations Student Speaker Contest Visa Support Letter Other Graduation Events Classes of 2020 and 2021 Response form 20/21 University Commencement Regalia Keynote Speaker Harvard Chan Live Speaker Profiles Getting to Campus Visa Support Letter Alumni Graduation Timeline November Graduation Timeline March Graduation Timeline May Graduation Timeline Diploma, Registration, Dissertation, Tuition & Health Insurance Information Loan Exit Counseling Requirements Awards Post-Graduation FAQs Information for Faculty Information for Guests Transportation and shuttles Keynote Speaker Jon LaPook, M.D., is Chief Medical Correspondent for CBS News and Mebane Professor of Gastroenterology at the NYU Grossman School of Medicine. He practices internal medicine and gastroenterology at NYU Langone Health. Dr. LaPook’s career sits at the intersection of medicine, media, and public health. As a physician and broadcast journalist, he has worked since the beginning of the pandemic to keep the public, as well as his own patients, informed about how to try to stay safe. Throughout his career in journalism, his wide-ranging interviews with patients, clinicians, researchers, public health officials, politicians, and others have helped him educate the public while providing him with his own continuing medical education. Dr. LaPook has a special interest in using media and the arts to improve medical training. In 2014, he founded The Empathy Project, which produces short films and other educational materials to teach clinicians to be more effective by practicing empathy. Since joining CBS News in 2006, Dr. LaPook has contributed more than 1,200 reports for “CBS Evening News,” “60 Minutes,” “CBS Mornings,” “CBS Sunday Morning,” and “Face the Nation.” His 2012 segment on the national drug shortage, 2013 coverage of the Boston Marathon bombings, and 2019 and 2020 contributions to “CBS Sunday Morning” have earned him four Emmy Awards. In 2018, two groundbreaking “60 Minutes” reports investigating the sexual abuse scandal involving USA Gymnastics led to a Gracie Award from the Alliance for Women in Media and a George Foster Peabody Award nomination. In addition, he won two Edward R. Murrow awards for “Best Broadcast” in 2007 and 2013, and a 2015 New York Press Club Award for Journalism for the WCBS-AM News Team Special “Eye on Ebola.” Jon LaPook was born in Mineola, New York. He graduated with honors from Yale University and received his M.D. in 1980 from Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, where he was elected into AOA, the national medical honor society. He completed his residency in Internal Medicine and fellowships in Gastroenterology and Medical Informatics at Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York City. A resident of New York City, Dr. LaPook is married to writer and producer Kate Lear. They have two sons. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College