Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Theatre (BFA) – Acting Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Theatre In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Bachelor of Fine Arts track in Acting is offered for students who, upon graduation, plan to pursue a specialized performance career in Acting. It provides the student with a thorough foundation in theatre complemented by very structured and intensive career preparation in all areas of acting. Class work is augmented with practical production experiences. Drawing upon the teachings of Stanislavski-based methodologies, as well as other successful practical acting techniques, the professional acting program offers an organic approach to performance training. The program begins with a focus on the fundamentals of acting: development of imagination, selfawareness, improvisation, voice production/diction and movement. During the first two years, the student also receives training in script analysis, singing and dance. The training then moves to an emphasis on characterization, character development and studio training/scene study. This practical study, drawn from the total range of dramatic literature, provides the student with performance experiences ranging from the classical to the contemporary, including verse and musical theatre. The program culminates with a professional internship where students are able to apply their education in a real world work environment. While most students choose to enter the work force following graduation, the BFA is an excellent degree for students interested in pursuing graduate studies in theatre. Work within the BFA program requires energy and dedication; therefore, other part-time study or outside employment is very challenging. BFA standards are high, both for admission and for continuation in the program. Admission Requirements The departmental faculty evaluates students desiring to become BFA majors via auditions and interviews. This should be completed the academic year prior to attending UCF. For complete information visit the audition site online at https://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/study/#theatreundergrad. All BFA students are accepted on a "Provisional" basis their first year. Faculty will evaluate their work and decide whether or not the student may continue the program at the end of the first year. The Acting plan of study requires a Fall start for proper course sequencing. Students are not accepted to begin theatre courses in the Spring or Summer semesters. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students must follow the most recent department, internship and school student handbooks which are available at http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources. Students in this major must earn a "C" (2.0) or better or an "S" in each music or theatre course and maintain a 3.0 GPA for all courses required in the major and all courses taken in theatre; must not receive a negative evaluation in a regularly scheduled program review; and must not exhibit chronic unprofessional behavior. Failure to meet these standards will result in probation and/or dismissal from the program. Refer to the SPA Undergraduate Student Handbook-Theatre (http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources) for details on program standards. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of 60 semester hours of courses taken from the UCF Theatre Department. All BFA Acting majors are required to audition for all Fall and Spring productions and must accept the roles assigned. Students must be registered for the appropriate Theatre Participation course in the term in which they participate. Students need not take additional hours to satisfy practicum requirements. Once students have completed their production participation requirements, they may register for a "0" credit participation course to meet departmental registration requirements if they choose. Students may use additional participation credits as electives. The department will accept one credit of Theatre Participation coursework for students transferring into the program. Any additional transfer participation credits will count towards electives. Internships are subject to departmental approval and may not be fulfilled through participating on a UCF theatre production. Courses designated Common Program Prerequisites are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Courses designated General Education Program are taken throughout all four years. Co-op cannot be used in this major. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Actor Understudy Ballet Professor Casting Director Film Maker Graphic Design Professor Independent Film Maker Movie Producer Music Video Director Newscast Director Pageant Director Photography Professor Piano Performance and Pedagogy Professor Radio Producer Radio Television Technical Director Stage Manager Stagecraft Professor Television Newscast Director Television Producer Television Program Director Vaudeville Actor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Theatre (BFA) - Acting University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Bachelor of Fine Arts track in Acting is offered for students who, upon graduation, plan to pursue a specialized performance career in Acting. It provides the student with a thorough foundation in theatre complemented by very structured and intensive career preparation in all areas of acting. Class work is augmented with practical production experiences. Drawing upon the teachings of Stanislavski-based methodologies, as well as other successful practical acting techniques, the professional acting program offers an organic approach to performance training. The program begins with a focus on the fundamentals of acting: development of imagination, selfawareness, improvisation, voice production/diction and movement. During the first two years, the student also receives training in script analysis, singing and dance. The training then moves to an emphasis on characterization, character development and studio training/scene study. This practical study, drawn from the total range of dramatic literature, provides the student with performance experiences ranging from the classical to the contemporary, including verse and musical theatre. The program culminates with a professional internship where students are able to apply their education in a real world work environment. While most students choose to enter the work force following graduation, the BFA is an excellent degree for students interested in pursuing graduate studies in theatre. Work within the BFA program requires energy and dedication; therefore, other part-time study or outside employment is very challenging. BFA standards are high, both for admission and for continuation in the program. Admission Requirements The departmental faculty evaluates students desiring to become BFA majors via auditions and interviews. This should be completed the academic year prior to attending UCF. For complete information visit the audition site online at https://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/study/#theatreundergrad. All BFA students are accepted on a "Provisional" basis their first year. Faculty will evaluate their work and decide whether or not the student may continue the program at the end of the first year. The Acting plan of study requires a Fall start for proper course sequencing. Students are not accepted to begin theatre courses in the Spring or Summer semesters. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students must follow the most recent department, internship and school student handbooks which are available at http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources. Students in this major must earn a "C" (2.0) or better or an "S" in each music or theatre course and maintain a 3.0 GPA for all courses required in the major and all courses taken in theatre; must not receive a negative evaluation in a regularly scheduled program review; and must not exhibit chronic unprofessional behavior. Failure to meet these standards will result in probation and/or dismissal from the program. Refer to the SPA Undergraduate Student Handbook-Theatre (http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources) for details on program standards. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of 60 semester hours of courses taken from the UCF Theatre Department. All BFA Acting majors are required to audition for all Fall and Spring productions and must accept the roles assigned. Students must be registered for the appropriate Theatre Participation course in the term in which they participate. Students need not take additional hours to satisfy practicum requirements. Once students have completed their production participation requirements, they may register for a "0" credit participation course to meet departmental registration requirements if they choose. Students may use additional participation credits as electives. The department will accept one credit of Theatre Participation coursework for students transferring into the program. Any additional transfer participation credits will count towards electives. Internships are subject to departmental approval and may not be fulfilled through participating on a UCF theatre production. Courses designated Common Program Prerequisites are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Courses designated General Education Program are taken throughout all four years. Co-op cannot be used in this major. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 10 credits from the following: TPA2248C - Makeup Techniques (2) DAA2200C - Ballet I (2) TPP2170C - Acting II - The Actor and Text (3) TPP2710C - Freeing the Voice (2) TPP2190L - Theatre Participation-Performance I (1 - 99) Complete at least 1 of the following: DAA2100C - Modern Dance I (2) DAA2570C - Jazz Dance I (2) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 55 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: THE3311 - Theatre History and Dramatic Literature I (3) THE3312 - Theatre History and Dramatic Literature II (3) THE3313 - Theatre History and Dramatic Literature III (3) TPP3310C - Directing for Theatre I (3) TPP3173C - Acting III - The Actor and Character (3) TPP4140C - Acting IV - The Actor at Play (3) TPP4142C - Acting Verse (3) TPP4265C - Camera Acting (3) TPP3711C - Voice and International Phonetic Alphabet (2) TPP3712C - Voice and Heightened Text (2) TPP4730C - Voice and Accents (2) TPP3510C - Movement for the Actor I (2) TPP3513C - Movement for the Actor II (2) TPP4531C - Period Movement (2) TPP4512C - Stage Combat (2) TPP3257C - Musical Theatre Voice Techniques (2) TPP3258C - Musical Theatre Voice Styles (2) TPP4221 - Auditioning (3) TPP4223C - Theatre Careers in Performance (3) TPP4940L - Theatre Internship (6) THE4954 - Theatre Exit Critique Earn at least 1 credits from the following: TPA4298L - Theatre Participation-Production II (1 - 99) THE4093L - Theatre Participation-Management II (1) TPP4193L - Theatre Participation-Performance II (1 - 99) Restricted Electives 6 Total Credits Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: Any THE, TPA, TPP, DAA, or DAN course taught by the Theatre Department, except THE 3006, and not already applied toward a program requirement . Independent Study, Undergraduate Research, and Honors in the Major courses taught by the Department of Theatre can also be used as electives. Exceptions must be approved by the Theatre Department Undergraduate Coordinator in advance. Courses with these prefixes not taught by the Department of Theatre cannot be used in this program. Grand Total Credits: 73 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida