Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Professional Education Menu About Staff Directory Calendar State Authorizations & Licenses Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program Student Resources Student Services and Benefits Online Student Withdrawal Tech Support FAQs Tips for Online Students Academic Integrity Degrees and Programs Continuing Education Department Resources Baylor>Professional Education>About>Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program Other Disclosures State Authorization Complaint Process Refund Policy Background- Baylor University offers several programs leading to professional licensure within the State of Texas. States vary in what professions they require to be licensed and how licensure functions. Some states require an individual to graduate from an approved program. Others require an individual to “meet [the] certification requirements of a national organization”. A specific amount of training can also be required as well as passage of an exam based on a state requisite exam score. Often, licensed professionals must complete continuing education on an annual basis (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health, 2018). State Authorization- Baylor is a member of the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (NC-SARA) which allows us to provide distance learning programs (both online and in the form of supervised field experiences) and coursework to residents of states other than Texas. NC-SARA membership, however, does not grant reciprocity or exempt us from state professional licensing requirements. As a result, licensing requirements in Texas may not be recognized as sufficient to obtain a license in any other state. Relocation- Relocating while in the course of a program to another state may have impacts if the student can remain in the program, meet the state licensure requirements and/or continue to receive financial aid funding. Prior to considering relocation, please complete the Location Form and contact your program advisor to discuss authorization and licensure eligibility requirements. International Students- Prior to enrolling in any program at Baylor University, prospective students living and/or working outside of the United States should confirm with the appropriate certifying agency whether successful completion of any degree program at Baylor will meet the credentialing requirements of the country in which they intend to seek employment, as to certain types of employment or for advanced/specialized educational programs. Students Responsibility- Students should review the specific academic requirements for the program in which they are enrolling, including those related to practicum/internship as well as pre-qualifications for licensure such as the need for a criminal background check. We highly recommend that students contact the applicable licensure board(s) in their state of residence or in the state where they intend to obtain a license before beginning an academic program that results in licensure and prior to beginning any internship/practicum. Many licensure boards have additional requirements beyond successful degree completion to obtain a license. Please be advised that state laws, regulations, and policies may change at any time. Changes in requirements can impact the program's ability to meet educational requirements for licensure. It is the responsibility of the student completing the licensure program to check with the licensing board(s) in their state of residence or in the state in which they intend to obtain a license for the most recent information and requirements. Baylor shall not be held liable if the student is unable to qualify for licensure or certification in any jurisdiction or cannot obtain a practicum/internship location. LICENSING DISCLOSURES 34 CFR 668.43(a)(5)(v) Professional Licensure/Certification (PLC) pre-education requirements The curriculum for programs customarily leading to licensure at Baylor University have been designed to meet the licensure/certification requirements in Texas as well as preparing students to apply for licensure exams in the State of Texas. The licensure boards in each state are responsible for establishing the requirements for licensure/certification for their state. Students who intend to return or move to any state other than Texas need to review the professional licensure disclosures pertaining to their program and consult with the state professional licensing board. The state professional licensing boards make the ultimate decision as to whether or not an individual will be eligible to sit for licensure based on the rules and regulations in place at the time the individual submits their application for licensure. BAYLOR PROGRAMS CUSTOMARILY LEADING TO LICENSURE Please click on your program tile below to view the program webpage. This will indicate one of the three options: the program does meet licensure in all states, the program does not meet the requirements for licensure in all states or the program requirements are undetermined because Baylor cannot determine whether the program leads to licensure in all states or in a state. For these purposes, states include the District of Columbia and the US protectorates, as defined in 34 CFR §600.2. Programs Not Listed- If you have questions regarding any program not listed on the Professional Licensure page, please contact the Program Director where the program resides. All Degrees Masters Doctorate Bachelor Accounting Hankamer School of Business Athletic Training Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Clinical Psychology College of Arts and Sciences Online and Residential M.S. Communication Sciences and Disorders Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Educator Certification School of Education Educational Psychology School of Education Engineering School of Engineering and Computer Science Interior Design Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Juris Doctor Law School Nursing BSN Programs Louise Herrington School of Nursing Doctor of Nurse Practice (DNP) Louise Herrington School of Nursing Doctor of Nurse Practice - Midwifery Louise Herrington School of Nursing Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Occupational Therapy Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Nutrition Sciences Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences EdS in School Psychology School of Education Master of Social Work (MSW) Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Army Baylor DPT Army Baylor Army Baylor MS Nutrition Army Baylor Army Baylor DNP Anesthesia Nursing Army Baylor About Staff Directory Calendar State Authorizations & Licenses Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Professional Education Mailing Address: Baylor University Professional Education One Bear Place #97071 Waco TX 76798-7071 Physical Address: Pat Neff Hall Suite 304 1320 S. 7th St. Waco, TX 76706 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Staff Directory Calendar State Authorizations & Licenses Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program Student Resources Student Services and Benefits Online Student Withdrawal Tech Support FAQs Tips for Online Students Academic Integrity Degrees and Programs Continuing Education Department Resources