Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller MBA Why Engineers Should Earn an MBA Home » Programs » MBA » For Engineers Menu MBA Full-time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta An MBA is a catalyst for change. It provides engineers with the knowledge and leadership skills to help them reach their career potential or pivot to new roles. Join one of Georgia Tech Scheller’s top-ranked MBA programs to build your foundation in business and innovation. Advance Your Career With an MBA As an engineer, you are an innovator who can comprehend and dissect technical, complex problems, so your expertise is a tremendous asset in the workforce. Your technical background helps you relate to other employees who work on product engineering or research and development. With an MBA, you become the bridge between technical experts and corporate leadership. Recent statistics report many employers across the country are requiring master’s degrees for competitive roles. As engineers search for a graduate program that best fits their career goals, many are choosing an MBA to increase their business acumen and gain the skill set essential for senior managers, entrepreneurs, and C-suite executives. Learn the Fundamentals of Business Thrive in the Scheller Community Expand Your Network Elevate Your Career Enhance and round out your technical aptitude by blending technology and business through hands-on experiences in and out of the classroom. The Scheller community is unmatched. Join a diverse, inclusive group of peers and faculty who will support and challenge you to be your best. Join a network of students and alumni from a wide range of professional and academic backgrounds and develop lifelong connections you'll leverage throughout your career. The Scheller MBA will give you a competitive edge while providing you with access to a global network, career resources, and support. Engineering Background, MBA Success My favorite thing about Scheller is the nature of curiosity among the students. I consider myself a fairly adventurous person, and every time I want to try something new in class, multiple people are willing to try it with me. The intellectual curiosity also pushes me to shift my engineering brain to more creative ways of thinking and problem-solving. - Francesca Sally, Full-time MBA’ 22 I found that my engineering background helped me arrive at an answer or solution, but Scheller guided me to see the ‘so what’ for how those solutions affect the overall business. - Stephen Spicher, Full-time MBA ’20, Senior Solutions Engineer, STORD The Scheller community is known for its genuine, close-knit nature, but experiencing this blew me away. My classmates are kind, forward-thinking, and authentic. The people at Scheller are the people I want to work with, work for, and want on my team in the professional world. - Skye Blevins, Evening MBA ’23, Product Engineer, Newell Brands Ways to Earn a Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Scheller offers three MBA programs: Full-time, Evening, and Executive. Each of our MBA programs offers robust curriculum options and specialized career services that allow you to build upon your engineering experience to meet you career goals. Full-time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA 22 months with summer internship Customize your MBA with concentrations, immersive tracks, and practicums Expand your career opportunities with individual career coaching and workshops at the Jones MBA Career Center Learn More 24 to 36 months of evening classes while you continue working in your career Same comprehensive curriculum as our Full-time MBA program Connect with more than 100 companies that recruit Scheller MBA students through the Jones MBA Career Center Learn More 17 months of weekend classes while you continue working in your career Specialize in Global Business or Management of Technology Develop a network among seasoned career professionals Learn More We also offer MBA dual degree options that allow you to combine an MBA with an M.S. or Ph.D. degree from the Georgia Tech Colleges of Computing, Design, Engineering, or Liberal Arts. Download 'Why Engineers Should Get an MBA' Brochure Download the ‘Why Engineers Should Get an MBA’ brochure to learn from seven Scheller MBA alumni about the specific benefits an MBA provides for those with an engineering background. Thank you for your interest. View or download the 'Why Engineers Should Get an MBA' brochure. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures