Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Student Services International Students International Students All newly-admitted international students must complete additional steps prior to matriculating, which include completing the Certificate of Eligibility, and in some cases sitting for the American Language Program Essay Exam. Postbac Premed Program international students are also required to be enrolled full-time throughout their tenure in the Postbac Premed Program. Consult the website for Columbia’s International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) for information about making the transition to Columbia. ISSO offers many services for international students including pre-admission counseling, immigration-related and document services, International Orientation, social and cultural activities, and a program for the spouses of students. Expand all Collapse all Applying for a Visa The International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) offers many services for the international community of students, interns, and scholars at Columbia University. Applying for a Certificate of Eligibility (I-20) International students at Columbia enter the United States on an F-1 student visa. You will need an I-20 form issued by Columbia’s International Students & Scholars Office (ISSO) before making your visa appointment at a U.S. consulate to apply for your F-1 visa. Watch ISSO’s video on how to get a visa and visit the ISSO website for important information about applying for the I-20. You will need to: Prepare your documents (bank statements, passport, and other supporting documents). Log in to Compass to apply for your I-20. Receive your I-20 by mail (you will choose where to have it shipped). Apply for Your Visa at a U.S. Consulate (the visa cannot be issued more than 120 days in advance of your program start date). If you have any questions regarding the visa application process, please contact the ISSO at [email protected]. American Language Program (ALP) Essay Exam Who Should Take the Exam Columbia University students must be fully proficient with written and spoken English. Upon review of your application and as a condition of your admission, you are required to take the Columbia University Online American Language Program (ALP) Essay Exam. It is important to note the following: You should take the exam as soon as possible. You are allowed to take the exam, even if you have yet to decide whether or not you will attend Columbia. You will not be allowed to meet with an Academic Advisor until you have a result from the ALP exam. You are encouraged to attend an Academic Planning Session as soon as possible, regardless of the status of your ALP exam. You are only allowed to take the exam once every 6 months The need to take the Online ALP Essay Exam is determined by the Admissions Committee at the time of acceptance and your enrollment at Columbia University is contingent upon taking the exam. Any questions related to this requirement should be directed to the GS Office of Admissions at [email protected]; please do not contact the American Language Program or the Dean of Students Office directly. No exceptions will be granted to the requirement; this includes but is not limited to the fact that you may have taken the TOEFL, IELTS, Duolingo, SAT, GSAE, Online GS Admissions Exam, or ACT exams prior to admission. Coursework completed at any other university or college also cannot be considered as an exception from the need to take the exam. Exam Description The Online ALP Essay Exam will be administered online and is designed to measure a test-taker's ability in writing; no speaking portion is included. Students will have 105 minutes to write an essay in response to a short reading prompt. Exam Results The Online ALP Essay Exam results will be emailed to students and to their respective department ten business days after the exam date. Results will be used by a student’s academic advisor to determine the appropriate academic plan for the first semester. Students will be required to take additional English language courses if their score on the examination is below level 10. A score below level 8 will require a deferral of the offer of admission to facilitate further, full-time, English language study. All students who earn a level 8 or 9 on the Online ALP Essay Exam are required to take additional coursework through ALP. More information about scores and score appeals may be found on the American Language Program website which may be accessed at http://sps.columbia.edu/alp/levels-and-testing#placements. Certification If you are currently or were previously enrolled in an American Language Program course where you have already taken or will take the Qualifying Exam, you will be excluded from taking the Online ALP Essay Exam. Please do not register to take the Online Exam and, instead, contact ALP at (212) 854-3584 to forward your results to the Office of Admissions at the School of General Studies. Disability Accommodations Applicants seeking exam-related accommodations for the ALP Essay Exam must register with Disability Services. Disability Services reviews accommodation requests and determines an applicant's eligibility for accommodations on the exam. The review process takes approximately three weeks, and does not begin until a student's completed registration form and disability documentation are received. If an applicant does not allow for at least three weeks to complete the review process, the implementation of any approved accommodations cannot be guaranteed. Registration Tuesday, April 12, 1 p.m. ET Thursday, May 19, 10 a.m. ET Wednesday, June 29, 10 a.m. ET Tuesday, August 2, 10 a.m. ET Contact Columbia University School of General Studies Office of Admissions and Educational Financing [email protected] Arriving at Columbia What should I do before arriving? Before arriving, students should review the Getting Started section of the International Student and Scholars Office website (ISSO). It provides information regarding entry to the U.S. and initial weeks at Columbia. Questions regarding student status and visas should be directed to the ISSO. I arrive several days before the semester commences. Where can I stay? If you are interested in obtaining University Housing, you are advised to complete the online housing application as soon as possible (login information is included in your acceptance packet). Please ensure that your selected housing date corresponds to your anticipated arrival date. Students arriving before the specified arrival dates will be required to find temporary accommodation in the area. For more information on housing, consult the GS Housing page and the University Apartment Housing website. Contact Columbia University International Students and Scholars Office 524 Riverside Drive New York, NY 10027 Telephone: (212) 854-3587 Fax: (212) 854-3966 [email protected] isso.columbia.edu Guide for International Students The Guide for International Students has been created to assist international students in navigating Columbia University. Please continue to review this resource as you move through your academic career here at Columbia. The guide will answer many common questions posed by international students while also providing information about the purpose and scope of a wide range of on-campus resources. Guide for International Students Make an Appointment Undergraduate Contact Information Office of Admissions Columbia University School of General Studies 408 Lewisohn Hall, MC 4101 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: +1 (212) 854-2772 Toll Free: (800) 895-1169 Fax: +1 (212) 854-6316 [email protected] Postbac Premed Contact Information Office of Admissions Columbia University Postbac Premed Program 408 Lewisohn Hall, MC 4101 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: +1 (212) 854-2772 Toll Free: (800) 895-1169 Fax: +1 (212) 854-6316 [email protected] Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close