COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Courtesy photo Cameron McGinley served as vice president and president of Wichita State’s IEEE-HKN (electrical and computer engineering honor society) chapter. May 16, 2022computer scienceApplied LearningGraduateSchool of ComputingCollege of EngineeringstudentsTalent PipelineGrad Profiles Meet a Shocker: Cameron McGinley By Paul Suellentrop Cameron McGinley’s work with machine learning with Dr. Sergio Salinas grew into one of the most rewarding parts of his education at Wichita State. McGinley will attend the University of California, San Diego for a Master of Science in computer science. Cameron is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Hometown Wichita Degree Bachelor of Science in computer science, minor in mathematics What made you want to attend Wichita State? A key factor in me choosing Wichita State was the number of opportunities surrounding campus. Landing a student job as an engineer at NetApp, which is now located on the corner of campus, was an incredible way to get my foot in the door and grow as an engineer. The availability of undergraduate research was also an important factor in my decision, and it seems these reasons worked out very well for me. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? I am looking forward to what’s to come. As I’m just finishing up my senior project, it feels great to see the final work come together and be able to showcase it to others. What was been your biggest challenge as a student, and how did you overcome it? One of my earliest challenges was after I was elected as vice president, and later president, of Wichita State’s IEEE-HKN (electrical and computer engineering honor society) chapter. From organizing and hosting workshops on computer science topics, to organizing ceremonies with dozens of attendees, there was a huge range of skills required. Our officer team was incredible in working together to achieve these things and ensure we were all improving to make future events even better. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita State? I landed my first research position in the summer of 2020 working with Dr. (Sergio) Salinas on machine learning in security. What I learned, both in machine learning and what it takes to be a good researcher, was one of the most helpful experiences I had at Wichita State. The mentoring I received through Wichita State’s undergraduate research program, and the help in getting my work published and even presenting it at the Kansas state capitol, set me up to succeed in computer science and to succeed in looking for future opportunities. What are your plans after graduation? This summer I will be taking on a computer science internship with the government, followed by attending the University of California, San Diego for a Master of Science in computer science. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affect your time at Wichita State? COVID-19 forced me to adapt to new styles of learning halfway through my undergraduate career. Now, I’ve learned to make use of the remote and hybrid formats to improve teamwork throughout all avenues I’m involved in, such as group projects or hosting workshops. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? Take advantage of the opportunities around campus. There are events being hosted constantly, and plenty of chances to meet with companies. The community, both students and faculty, is incredibly valuable in helping you to succeed, and there is no shortage of ways to grow as a professional and set yourself up for a great career. College of Engineering Since 1928, Wichita State University's College of Engineering has built a reputation for equipping engineering and computing students with the most complete education possible. Learn more Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio computer science Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters Talent Pipeline NIAR WERX announces MRO program expansion with Erickson Precision Ventures Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©