Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Register with Disability Services Register with Disability Services Students seeking reasonable accommodations (academic, housing) or support services from Disability Services (DS) are required to register with the office. This does not occur automatically upon enrollment at Columbia University. Services received in high school or at other universities do not automatically transfer to Columbia University. It is recommended that students joining the University contact the office immediately to initiate the registration process, but no later than 3 weeks prior to the start of classes. However, registrations are accepted throughout the year. Disability Services supports all types of conditions including physical and learning disabilities, temporary injuries and chronic illnesses. Disability Services Registration Process Registering includes the following steps for all students: Submit a completed registration form via fax to (212) 854-3448, email to [email protected] or in-person at Wien Hall Suite 108A. Submit documentation verifying your disability status and the need for accommodations. Refer to our documentation guidelines for help. Disability Services reviews each request and determines eligibility for accommodations and services. The review process does not begin until your completed registration form and your disability documentation are received. The review process takes approximately three weeks. Meet with Disability Services. A coordinator will contact students to schedule an orientation meeting. During this required meeting, your coordinator will review the policies and procedures regarding the provision of reasonable accommodations. This meeting will help to familiarize students with Disability Services and facilitate the accommodations process. Professor and/or school notification: Undergraduate students, at the start of each new semester: Students are required to present each of their professors an Accommodation Letter issued by DS. These letters include recommendations for reasonable accommodations for the student. Each professor will review the Disability Services recommendations, and should sign each letter indicating they either agree to implement the recommended accommodations or request consultation with Disability Services to determine alternative accommodations that are a better fit for the course. Signed letters must be returned to Disability Services prior to the implementation of accommodations. Graduate students After meeting with your Disability Services coordinator, contact your program’s Disability Services liaison. Disability Services liaisons are designated Columbia faculty or staff from each school or academic program who work with Disability Services to coordinate accommodations for students with disabilities. During the first meeting, the Disability Services liaison will review the protocols and procedures for receiving accommodations. Students are expected to adhere to the procedures at their respective schools in order to remain eligible for receiving accommodations. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Staff Directory Check out our list of staff at the office department page. Health Unit Disability Services Clinical Specialty Accessibility Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close