HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Wellness When to See a Provider CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Advance Directives In South Carolina, if you are 18 years of age, you have the right to make you own health care decisions. This right includes the ability to decide what medical care or treatment to accept, reject or discontinue. The best way to make your wishes known is to discuss them with your family and health care providers and execute an Advance Directive. Upon request, Student Health Services will provide information relating to the execution and use of advance directives in South Carolina. SHS will not honor advance directives but will accept copies executed by patients and will make all such copies a part of the patient’s permanent medical record. Living Will Health Care Power of Attorney Five Wishes Living Will A Living Will tells the doctor what to do if you are permanently unconscious or if you are terminally ill and close to death. A Living Will states what treatment you do not want. Health Care Power of Attorney A medical, or durable, power of attorney names an agent of your choosing to make decisions about your health care. A health care power of attorney states what treatment you do want, as well as what you do not want when you are unable to communicate. Five Wishes The Five Wishes is an easy to use legal document that lets your family and doctors know which person you want to make health care decisions for you when you can’t make them; the kind of medical treatment you want or do not want; how comfortable you want to be treated and what you want your loved ones to know. If you have questions about signing Advance Directives, talk with your doctor, minister, priest, rabbi or other health or religious professional. It is advisable to consult/discuss Advance Directive forms with a lawyer before signing. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster