Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety What to do in an emergency Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications What to do in an emergency Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close How to Prepare Home Emergency Management How to Prepare Emergency Management Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Download our new Mobile Preparedness App to always have emergency information with you! Visit the iPhone app store or Google Play and search for "BC Safe." Learn about potential hazards and Campus Safety Procedures. Develop an Evacuation Plan for Home and at BC which includes: Two ways out of all rooms, if possible Pre-designated meeting places for employees, friends and/or roommates. One location just outside where you live/work and a second location further away in case you can’t get close to where you work/live. Everyone should know where these locations are. Know Emergency Shelter Locations – In Case of an Emergency, check the BC Emergency website or ask a BC Official (ie: BC Police, Resident Director, Resident Assistant, etc.). Generally these are locations such as dining halls, libraries and other large assembly areas on campus. Be sure to develop a Family Emergency Plan for your home. Learn about Emergency Communications Update Contact Information for Emergency Notification and become familiar with BC Emergency Notification Procedures. Make sure you have an Emergency Communication Plan with family and friends. Keeping the people you care about and who care about you informed during an emergency is critical. Add and "ICE" (In Case of Emergency) contact to your phone. This is a person to contact on your behalf in case you are not able to communicate with emergency responders. Add the Boston College Police Emergency Number 617-552-4444 into your cell phone's phonebook. In case you ever need to call for help, it will be readily available to you. Also be sure to program 911 into your cell phone for off campus emergencies. Assemble an Emergency Supply Kit to help you get through the initial period of the emergency. Attend safety and security information sessions and classes. Learn CPR, first aid and other emergency skills. Stay Alert Though Boston College is a safe environment, all members of the University Community are urged to stay alert and report any unusual activity to the BC Police at 617-552-4444. Print Open All Close All BC Safe Mobile App General Info BC Safe is the official mobile safety app for Boston College. You can use the app throughout the day to find essential information and to quickly check bus schedules, weather updates, search for key contacts, get helpful travel information, access emergency guidance and much more. Boston College Public Safety maintains the app. Regardless if you are a student, faculty, staff, alumni, visitor or a friendly neighbor, BC Safe has something for you! With campus safety at the forefront of our focus, we designed BC Safe to help you meet any issue that may arise. Emergency contacts are front and center. Detailed response guides are available online and off. Easy-to-use reporting tools are right at your fingertips. Friend Walk, a real-time location tracking tool, lets you choose a friend or family member to monitor your walk and alert the authorities if an emergency unfolds. For most of the day, the average smartphone/tablet user has their mobile device within a three foot radius. During an emergency, it is often intuitive to pick up your mobile device. This customized app places Boston College's emergency information onto a single platform designed to help guide our community through an emergency event. Other BC Safe key features include: Get help, receive emergency notifications, find emergency, support and other key resources & contacts; How to Respond emergency guides; Friend Walk to share your location in real time with family or friends; Maps & Transportation to find out where shuttle buses are, where to park, find your way on campus; Travel Safety & Weather to assist with keeping you aware and safe during your day and travel. How to Download Emergency Reference Guide App Interface The app supports iOS Apple products and Android products. Download the BC Safe app by visiting either the Apple iTunes Store (iOS) or Google Play Store (Android). Search for BC Safe and download (it only takes about 30 seconds). Be sure to allow notifications, which pushes BC alerts to your device. Launch the BC Safe app! Start exploring the app and become familliar with its capabilities and features. Give us feedback! We would like to know about your experience with the app. Contact us with any comments or questions by emailing us at bc_emergency@bc.edu or calling 617-552-4316. Emergency Supply Kit Everyone should prepare an Emergency Supply Kit to assist them through a crisis. Not all services and items will be immediately available following a large emergency. You should consider having an emergency kit in your home, apartment or residence hall. If you own a vehicle, you should consider also having a smaller kit in your car. These are basic items to allow you to endure an emergency situation for a short period of time. You can add additional items as needed: Bottled water and canned/packaged food Manual can opener Radio (battery or crank charge) Extra batteries for radio & light Toiletries (toothbrush, toothpaste,shampoo, soap, comb/brush) First Aid Kit Flashlight (battery or crank charge)and emergency light sticks Blanket (emergency type) Prescription medications Eyeglasses/contacts Safety whistle (to attract attention) Dust Mask & Surgical Gloves Hand Sanitizer If you need to evacuate during an emergency, take your Emergency Supply Kit with you. Don’t forget your: Keys, Identification (BC ID, Drivers License, etc), Wallet/Purse, Money/ Credit Cards, Cell-phone and Charger. More details on assembling an Emergency Supply Kit found here. Download BC's Emergency Preparedness Brochure which includes the Emergency Supply Kit list below: Emergency Management Brochure Safety and Preparedness Training Learn about various training opportunities for CPR, first aid, disaster preparedness and personal safety from both on campus and off campus sources. Please click on the links below to go to the various programs that are offered. BC Police - Several programs are offered such as the Rape, Aggression, Defense Course and programs about personal safety and security. Taught on campus. BC EMS - Offer programs in CPR, first aid, Emergency Medical Technician training and continuing medical education for EMTs. Taught on campus BC Environmental Health and Safety - Offer classes in various worker safety and protection including Fire Extinguisher Training, Bio Safety Training, Chemical Safety and other topics. BC Campus Recreation - Offer programs in American Red Cross classes such as Water Safety Instructor, CPR, Lifeguard Training and First Aid. Taught on campus. Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) - Program is designed how to teach and prepare participants for emergencies and disasters. Subjects include hands on basic medical operations, light search and rescue, basic fire suppression, disaster psychology, team organization, disaster operations and a full scale disaster simulation. Want to get involved with CERT at BC? Email us here. FEMA Independent Study - Through the Emergency Management Institute, FEMA offers numerous emergency and preparedness courses utilizing online independent study. American Red Cross of Eastern Massachusetts - Offer many classes in personal preparedness including CPR, First Aid, Pet First Aid, Psychological First Aid, Emergency Shelter Operations, Mass Care, Lifeguard Training and many others. Classes taught at various locations in the Boston Area. Boston DelValle Institute for Emergency Preparedness - Offer numerous courses in various subjects such as Medical Reserve Corps, Incident Command, Psychological First Aid, Flu Pandemic, Mass Casualty Events and many others. Boston College Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) What is C-CERT? C-CERT is a program designed to teach and prepare participants for emergencies and disasters, so they can help themselves and others in their community when needed. Basic disaster response skills participants are taught include emergency preparedness, hazard identification, hands on basic medical operations, CPR, light search and rescue, fire suppression, disaster psychology, disaster operations, and a full scale disaster simulation. More information about CERT teams can be found below: FEMA CERT Program Overview FEMA Emergency Management Institute CERT Introduction Course BC Campus CERT The Boston College Campus CERT, or C-CERT, is a program that runs once a semester over a few weeks. Classes consist of a total of 24 training hours. The course is concluded by a full scale disaster simulation during which you can practice your new skills. Classes are open to students, faculty, and staff, and are free of charge. To date over 200 members of the BC community have been trained in this program. More Information Visit our Facebook page to view photos of previous classes If you would like more information on our C-CERT program, or have any questions, please e-mail us at bc_emergency@bc.edu. Back To Top Back To Top BC Campus Safety 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College