Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Current Students Online Learning Readiness Assessment Current Students Student Services and Support Learning SupportTutoringLibrariesDisability ResourcesAdult & Returning StudentsVeterans & Military StudentsCareer ServicesInternships Register for Courses AdvisingCourse SearchDeadlinesPrior Learning AssessmentRegistration Student Success Online Course Intro Success Strategies SmartStart Technology RequirementsResources Graduation Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Learning: SmartStart Readiness Assessment SmartStart is a three tiered initiative designed to address the needs of adult learners returning to school. It is our aspiration to inform students who have been pre-admitted, currently enrolled to the University of Memphis about their academic preparedness to return to college and provide them with resources and assistance to address their possible deficiencies prior to enrollment into an online course or program. Resources for Preparedness Intervention 1: Readiness Assessment Using a mixed methods approach, involving a web based readiness instrument, students will be assessed for "preparedness" and receive a recommended intervention for the following categories: Technical Knowledge, Online Learning Experience, Self-regulation, and Self-Management. The intent of this stage is to determine Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) opportunities (Experiential Learning Credit as well as Credit By Exam), modality match (online vs. face-to-face/hybrid), and support service prescription (tutoring, coaching, etc.). Intervention 2: Preparation Drawn from the aforementioned Readiness Assessment, a prescribed resource-based, readiness plan will be prepared for each returning student. While past academic performance may provide hints that academic tutoring or coaching be recommended, results from the readiness assessment instrument will direct students to key resources based on their categorical scores (e.g. time management, technology access & skill, etc.). Intervention 3: Practice Zone Based on the results of the Readiness Assessment and the completed readiness plan, the respondent will be directed to the Practice Zone. Within the Practice Zone, students will be given the opportunity to hone their skills prior to entry into a fully online or hybrid course offered by the University of Memphis. The Zone will include practice course modules and proven academic strategic resources designed to get prospective students ready for the "college experience". Begin the Smart Start Readiness Assessment > About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/16/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.