Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Department of Health Policy and Management Department of Health Policy and Management Menu Search for: Home People Faculty Information for New and Teaching Faculty Researchers Instructors Staff Students and Alumni For Students Prospective Students Which Masters Program is Right for You? Frequently Asked Questions Apply Now Newly Admitted SM & MPH Students Welcome MPH-45 Health Management Students Welcome MPH-45 Health Policy Students Welcome MPH-65 Health Management Students Welcome MPH-65 Health Policy Students HPM – Resources for New MPH Students Welcome Master of Science in Health Policy and Management Students! HPM-Resources for New Masters of Science Students Fall Orientation// Helpful Excel Info Current Students Key Contacts for HPM Students Course Registration Information // Helpful Links HPM Independent Studies HPM Course Waivers and Substitutions MPH-45/65 HM and HP Student Cohort Meetings Working with your Faculty Advisor HPM Policy on Winter Session Student Events/Job Postings HPM Teaching Fellow Resource Guide Centers, Programs, and Affiliates Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging in HPM HPM in the News Contact Us Coronavirus Update from HPM: We hope everyone is staying safe and well during this strange time of uncertainty during the Coronavirus pandemic. While many of you have likely been keeping up with COVID-19 updates in the mainstream media, we would like to direct you to our new webpage, HPM in the News, which compiles links to articles and interviews featuring folks in the department or closely affiliated with HPM. This site is updated and monitored regularly, so please feel free to check in as useful, as well as send along any additional links that might not already be posted. We also encourage you to visit the Harvard Chan School’s dedicated COVID-19 site for more information about happenings within the Chan School. Stay healthy and safe! The Department of Health Policy and Management at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health is dedicated to improving the health care delivery system and mitigating public health risks in the United States and abroad. The Department of Health Policy and Management (HPM) is committed to training and inspiring the next generation of health care leaders. Our students and faculty are passionate about making the world a better place by improving health and health care. We work on compelling and important problems, from making the delivery of care safer and more efficient, to expanding health insurance coverage and eliminating disparities, to designing and improving the performance of entire health systems. Our educational programs focus on helping students develop the critical thinking and applied problem-solving skills needed to address a wide variety of public health challenges. HPM students come from across the United States and from around the world. They are academically accomplished, enthusiastic, and engaged. All of our students have significant prior work experience and they enrich the classroom with their insights and perspectives. We believe that additional experiences beyond the classroom are an essential part of public health education, and our department’s strong ties to leading public health policymakers and practitioners provide students with opportunities to apply classroom learning to real world, public health management, and policy problems in the US and abroad. Academic Programs: Our academic programs focus on developing the critical thinking and applied problem-solving skills needed to address a wide variety of challenges throughout the health care delivery, public policy, and public health systems. For more information about our academic programs, current courses and additional information for students, visit the ‘For Students’ section. Major Research Areas: Decision Science Health Economics Health Care Management Political Policy Public Health Policy Quality and Access Centers, Programs and Affiliates: The Department of Health Policy and Management works closely with many research centers and programs that focus on a diverse scope of public health issues. Visit our centers, programs and affiliates page to learn more. Twitter FeedMy Tweets Connect with Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Follow me on TwitterMy Tweets News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website