COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News April 26, 2022studentsAccess and Affordabilitycommunityenrollmenttransfer studentsW. Frank Barton School of Business Barton School of Business to award $40,000 in scholarships to Butler CC students By WSU Strategic Communications The W. Frank Barton School of Business at Wichita State University is helping Butler Community College students interested in furthering their business education with $40,000 in scholarships. These scholarships will help amplify and activate the coordinated “2+2” program between the two schools where Butler students can receive their associates degree and pursue a business degree at WSU. “The partnership between our schools is vital to giving students accessible opportunities to pursue their educational journeys,” said Dr. Larisa Genin, dean of the Barton School of Business. “We believe this program will give interested students a road map for success by helping them graduate with a business degree and achieve great things in the business world.” This pathway will begin in fall 2022 and be available to current Butler students. To be eligible for the scholarship fund, students must have at least a 3.0 GPA, be a full-time Butler student, plan to complete a Butler associate’s degree in spring 2022, show financial need, and be interested in pursuing an undergraduate major within the Barton School. “Butler Community College prides itself on a dynamic learning environment that prepares and support students inside and outside the classroom,” said Dr. Kim Krull, president of Butler Community College. “The mission of the Barton School of Business aligns with ours to the point where this partnership just made sense. Together, we’re ready to make a difference in the lives of students.” This scholarship is one more way Wichita State helps provide an accessible, affordable and impactful higher education for students. The $40,000 in scholarships from the Barton School will be awarded to five students. Each will receive $4,000 scholarships for two years. “Wichita is the largest metropolitan city in Kansas, and there are many schools within our region doing great work,” said Dr. Shirley Lefever, executive vice president and provost at Wichita State. “When we work together, great things can happen. This partnership between Butler Community College and the Barton School is a prime example of that.” Enrollment for scholarships is now open. To learn more about enrolling, contact Caroline Beach, 316-978-7464 or caroline.beach@wichita.edu, or DeAnn Shimp, 316-323-6242 or dshimp@butlercc.edu. Scholarships Funding your high-quality Wichita State education is easy. Once you're admitted, we'll send you an automatic scholarship offer if you're eligible. You could also qualify for some of the more than $100 million in other scholarships and financial aid we award each year. In addition, many of our out-of-state students qualify for in-state or reduced tuition. Learn more about scholarships at Wichita State Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio computer science Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats WSU Foundation Woolseys give $1.3 million to fulfill vision for Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©