Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Search & Find Search & Find Advanced Search Search through most of our collections and materials with Advanced Search, using limiters like subject area, full text, and peer reviewed to narrow down your results. Find a Database Locate a specific database by title, subject, or most used. Journal Search Find journals, periodicals, and newspapers in our collection by title and data range of available material. Useful when you have a specific citation, or for browsing important journals in your field. Special Collections Search Search or browse through our unique Special Collections including rare books, manuscripts, and digitized collections. DigiNole Search Browse FSU's own repository including the Digital Library which contains FSU specific historial materials, and the Research Repository which provides open access to FSU's own research and dissertations. About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!