COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Applied Learning at Wichita State Section Menu Applied Learning Home Types of Applied Learning Opportunities for Employers Success Stories Career Development Center Employment at WSU Workforce, Professional and Community Education Stop Video Get information about Wichita State, personalized for your career goalsRequest info At Wichita State, applied learning is a big part of what we do. In fact, every degree we offer has opportunities for an applied learning or research experience. As a Shocker, you'll get the chance to work side by side with established professionals, building contacts, confidence and a strong resume before graduation. What is applied learning? Shocker Career Accelerator Opportunities for employers Beyond the classroom, beyond the campus Thanks to our location in Kansas' largest city, Wichita State removes the barrier between classroom and applied learning in ways others can't. Our vast partnerships in virtually every industry provide students with diverse opportunities to train like professionals—while still in school. Learn more about Wichita Begin your story Apply Now! Request info Applied learning for current students At WSU, we have career development resources for virtually all of your employment-related needs. From help discovering—and landing—your dream job to limitless applied learning, cooperative education and internship opportunities, WSU offers a wide range of career tools focused on your future success. Watch more applied learning videos Play Play Video Applied learning impact Want to know more?More Applied Learning Fast Facts Opportunities for employers Wichita State is always on the lookout for new and innovative partnerships that benefit students, industry and the community. From providing internships for our students to conducting research on our campus, Wichita State has the people, resources and opportunities to help your organization achieve new heights. Get engaged with WSU Hire a Shocker! Shocker Career Accelerator matches students with work opportunities Lauryn McIntyre is learning how to build a brand that helps HSI Wealth Strategies get the word out to people in the aviation industry that HSI understands their financial needs. “Very pilot-centric, very pilot-focused,” she said. “I’ve learned a lot about the aviation industry in my time there.” McIntyre, a Wichita State University senior, worked with a designer to create an HSI logo that invokes aviation. She also organizes HSI’s marketing plan, networks with pilots and updates the website to highlight the firm’s expertise. “It has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective,” she said. “I really had to, essentially, trust myself. Here, you’re going to get from point A to point B on your own.” Read more 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©