Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Alumni Employers About» Department History What Is Civil Engineering? Admissions» Academics» Undergraduate Programs Master of Science Program Doctoral Programs Courses Research» Transportation Engineering Multi-Hazard Risk Assessment and Mitigation Computational Mechanics Advanced Materials Fluid Mechanics Geotechnical Engineering Safety and Reliability Careers People News Resources Robert A. W. Carleton Strength of Materials Laboratory Bulletin Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Civil Engineering Research Education Civil Engineering Research Education Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Learn More Research The department engages with industry and government in a broad range of research that has immediate impact on the public good. Research foci include environmental, structural and geotechnical engineering, risk assessment, and mechanics. Learn More Education In addition to undergraduate programs in civil engineering and engineering mechanics, the Department of Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics offers graduate programs leading to the degree of Master of Science (MS) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD). Learn More News » Press Release Jumari Robinson Awarded NIST NRC Postdoctoral Research Associateship More May 10 2022 Multidisciplinary Research Team Awarded $1.2M NSF Grant to Improve Traffic Management in Real Time. More Oct 14 2021 Maria Q. Feng awarded the Robert Moskovic Award for contributions in the Safety & Sustainability of Civil Infrastructure Systems field More Apr 21 2021 Assistant Professor Marco Giometto joins the Amazon Visiting Academics (AVA) program More Apr 24 2021 Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at Columbia Runtime 3:57 The Department of Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics has access to some of the greatest engineering projects and companies in the world, here in NYC. Developing novel ways to monitor the safety of suspension bridges using sensors. Determining the effectiveness and efficiency of green roofs. Designing new building materials that have superior strength and at the same time are environmentally friendly and compatible with sustainable development. Defining the state-of-the-art in analyzing and designing structures using computers. Our department identifies emerging issues in the complex interactions between the built and natural environment. Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at Columbia Runtime 3:57 The Department of Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics has access to some of the greatest engineering projects and companies in the world, here in NYC. Developing novel ways to monitor the safety of suspension bridges using sensors. Determining the effectiveness and efficiency of green roofs. Designing new building materials that have superior strength and at the same time are environmentally friendly and compatible with sustainable development. Defining the state-of-the-art in analyzing and designing structures using computers. Our department identifies emerging issues in the complex interactions between the built and natural environment. Engineering for Humanity: SUSTAINABLE Runtime 0:41 Columbia Engineering Carleton Lab Test Runtime 3:03 The Carleton Strength of Materials Laboratory recently tested brick structures made from innovative 100% organic biomaterial for a project by Assistant Professor David Benjamin of Columbia’s Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation. This collaborative effort resulted in data essential to the design process and implementation of Hy-Fi—the winner of the Museum of Modern Art and MoMA PS1’s 15th annual Young Architects Program. Uncrushable: How a 2,700 paper tube structure stands up to stress Runtime 0:44 For the National Building Museum in Washington DC, Columbia Engineering runs a crush test on a prototype of “Hive,” an interactive installation that is part of a series of temporary structures inside the museum’s historic Great Hall. Civil Engineering's Carleton Lab worked with architects Studio Gang to measure the carrying capacity of an assembly of three 10-foot cardboard tubes interlocked with three 4’10” tubes — which topped out at nearly 15 feet. After building and placing the structure in the lab’s Southwark Emery Universal Testing Machine, the team put the structural limits of both the connections and tubes to the test. Master of Science in Civil Engineering and Engineer Mechanics Runtime 3:21 Learn what makes Columbia Engineering's MS programs in civil engineering and engineering mechanics special, and find out how the curriculum is designed to suit each student's professional goals. Playlists Connect twitter MORE {{item.username}} | {{item.date}} 500 W. 120th Street #610 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Alumni sitemap