Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Admissions Apply Application Tips Lowering Barriers Tuition and financial aid About Seattle Events Visit Program Curriculum New Courses Internships Specialization in Museum Evaluation Host a museology intern Projects Support Museology Covid-19 People Student Directory Student Groups Core faculty and staff Guest faculty Interdisciplinary Group Alumni spotlights Careers Blog MuseumsForward Contact Museology Sep 2021 Museology Master of Arts Program Menu Home Admissions Apply Application Tips Lowering Barriers Tuition and financial aid About Seattle Events Visit Program Curriculum New Courses Internships Specialization in Museum Evaluation Host a museology intern Projects Support Museology Covid-19 People Student Directory Student Groups Core faculty and staff Guest faculty Interdisciplinary Group Alumni spotlights Careers Blog MuseumsForward Contact Home Museology Master of Arts Program Museology Master of Arts Program Museum Studies University of Washington Our core beliefs Museums can make the world a better place The power of museums lies in the role they play in learning, wellbeing, community building, and social justice Museum professionals are connectors – they are storytellers, dialogue facilitators, community liaisons, designers, evaluators, researchers, project managers, and more. The world has fundamentally changed. The global pandemic has affected all areas of society, but the inequities and vulnerabilities it exposed are not new. We believe that museums are playing and will continue to play a vital role in rebuilding our communities. Museums will look different than they do today, but at the core, they remain organizations devoted to learning, wellbeing, community building, and social justice. Learn more about the program New courses Our new courses are developed to address current and future trends in the field. - Museums and technology - Museums and racial justice - Community engagement Explore new courses Specialization in museum evaluation We believe in the power of evidence-based practice. The Specialization in Museum Evaluation teaches students a wide range of skills that will prepare them to incorporate museum evaluation into their work. Learn more Paid internships We are committed to equity and research in the museum field. The goal of our paid internship pilot is to make museum work accessible to students who are not able to work without compensation. We hope that this initiative will contribute to the larger, field-wide conversation on the implications of unpaid museum internships. Internships Get social Facebook Instagram A warm welcome back to those who braved the journe Hello Museology fam! A huge round of applause to T If you are in Seattle this weekend, check out the Our communications team is off to Boston for the 2 Load More... "Launching our paid internship pilot program makes a statement, as a museum studies program, about who we are and what we value. It’s not a solution to field-wide issues, but it’s a concrete step that we can take to further the conversation. It’s also an excellent fit with our focus on practice informed by research and evaluation." - Jessica Luke, Director Program details Location: UW Seattle Duration: 2 years Cost: $6,755/quarter University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA