Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About The Innovation Imperative FAQ Funding opportunities Roundtable Contacts Programs Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship Global Innovation Exchange Colleges and schools UW Medicine Incubators and accelerators Internships and fellowships Find a mentor Classes and clubs Events Upcoming events Autumn Quarter Winter Quarter Spring Quarter Ongoing events Spaces Makerspaces CoMotion Labs GIX Prototyping Labs Other facilities Startups Startup portfolio Success stories Investment and licensing opportunities Work with UW Work with UW There are many ways to engage with the UW on innovation and entrepreneurship opportunities. Learn how your involvement can help us move ideas from innovation to impact. CoMotion CoMotion partners with the UW community on their innovation journey, providing tools, connections, and acumen to transform ideas into economic and societal impact. We offer access to IP advising, protection & licensing; innovation training; funding & partnerships; and support startups & incubation. Partner Sponsor Become a Mentor Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship The Buerk Center offers an exceptional curriculum, real-world experiences, and connections to inspire students from all majors and disciplines across campus to pursue their entrepreneurial passions. Get involved with the Buerk Center and impact entrepreneurial growth at the UW and across the Pacific Northwest. Judge a competition. Join us on a panel or as a guest speaker. Sponsor Buerk Center events and programs. Join us and be an expert resource. Or tell us your passion and we’ll help you find a fit. Partner Sponsor Become a Judge AboutProgramsClasses/ClubsEventsSpacesStartupsWork with UW University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA