Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Staff Senate Staff Senate Home Who We Are Senate is comprised of elected representatives and ex-officio members representing approximately 4,000 staff employees of Clemson University. The Senate membership represents a 1:75 ratio among Budget Centers. Why We Are Here Staff Senate exists to support and represent Clemson University staff employees by giving voice to and advocating for a safe and equitable workplace, work-life balance, and professional development by promoting resources and recognition staff members need and deserve to flourish in their positions and at the University. History In 1984, Staff Senate was formed based on the need for establishing a two-way forum between the University community and classified staff at Clemson University. The Senate was the recognized voice for all classified University employees. In 2007, the name changed to Staff Senate, incorporating all permanent unclassified staff into the organization. Now, Staff Senate represents full-time permanent, time-limited, and temporary grant employees. Communication Senators are elected to represent staff. The goal is to be the link between staff and decision-making University administrators. Senate meeting summaries are the primary means of communicating Senate issues and actions to the staff. In addition, the Senate conducts surveys, distributes information, such as how to obtain a Staff Senate Scholarship, provides tips on communicating with elected officials and participates in the annual University Benefits Fair sponsored by the Office of Human Resources. Wooden Collectible for ScholarshipCurrent Newsletter Inclusion Statement Submit your feedback Upcoming Meeting Join us for May's meeting on Thursday, May 12, at 2:30 p.m. on Zoom and at the University Union Senate Chambers. Please register if you'd like to speak during the open commentary period. Upcoming Events 			  
		 Jun 1 10am MBA Coffee Chat: Pelham Road Location: Starbucks Jun 6 10am Staff Senate Blood Drive Location: 101 Calhoun Dr. (between Bowman Field and the Carillon Garden) Jun 8 12pm Information Session Jun 9 9am Clemson MBA Open House Location: Greenville ONE Jun 9 2:30pm Staff Senate Monthly Meeting Location: Edgar A. Brown University Union Tweets by CUStaffSenate Home Bylaws Committees Minutes Newsletter Staff Senate Endowed Scholarship Employee Emergency Fund Thank You, Veterans Contact Us Join Staff Senate Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram