On-Campus Testing - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to COVID-19 Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search COVID-19 Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Guidelines & Protocols Face Coverings on Campus Potential Exposure to Coronavirus COVID-19 Diagnosis Completion of Self-Quarantine / Isolation Campus Prevention Travel Guidelines Event Guidelines Campus Cleaning Protocols COVID-19 Information Coronavirus Symptoms Positive Case Reporting On-Campus Testing COVID-19 Vaccine Information Communications FAQs UH Home COVID-19 Return to Campus On-Campus Testing Return to Campus Current Operations Plan Return to Campus Requirements Campus Cleaning & Safety Practices Academic Instruction, Policies & Resources On-Campus Testing Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis/Symptoms Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus Inquiries: Inquiries regarding a positive case or exposure: UH COVID-19 Case Support Helpdesk 832-84C-OVID or 832-842-6843 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday covid19coordinator@uh.edu On-Campus Testing Free COVID-19 Testing The University of Houston is partnering with the well-known testing company Curative to provide a free, walk-up kiosk on campus where faculty, students and staff can be tested regardless of whether they have symptoms. The testing service will be available by appointment only and is located in front of the UH Student Center South., Monday through Friday. The testing kiosk will offer painless PCR saliva swabs with results returned by email within 48 hours of the test arriving at the lab. The Curative kiosk will be open to faculty, staff and students with their UH Cougar Card identification. If you receive a positive test result, you must complete the University’s Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis form as soon as possible. Curative Testing Appointments: Appointments can be made on the updated appointment site. More information about Curative testing can be found on the Curative website. As a reminder, if you receive a positive test result, you must complete the Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis form as soon as possible per UH protocol. Student Health Center Testing The Student Health Center provides COVID-19 testing for students, faculty and staff who become symptomatic or have been identified as exposed on the UH campus, AND are participating in on-campus face-to-face courses, living or working on campus. Testing is available at the Student Health Center, located in the Health 2 Building by appointment only. Priority is given to students, faculty and staff who are on campus Individuals who meet the criteria should call 713-743-4510 to setup their appointment for testing Individuals tested will be contacted with results (usually within 24-48 hours after being tested) University contact tracing teams will immediately notify anyone known to have been potentially exposed by someone (student, faculty or staff) who was on campus during the infectious period. The individual’s health insurance will be billed and will need to be presented at the time of the appointment. The cost of the test for individuals who do not have health insurance is $70 Testing for the General Public Patients who do not have a primary care physician can be evaluated and tested at the Lone Star Circle of Care @ UH clinic in the Health 2 building on campus; appointments can be scheduled at 877-800-5722. Free COVID-19 testing using an oral swab can also be accessed at Minute Maid Park, which can be scheduled through this website. Additional free testing resources in Houston may be found on the Houston Emergency Operation Center COVID-19 Testing page. Testing Frequently Asked Questions Expand All Collapse All What type of test is being administered at UH? Curative Kiosk: The Curative testing kiosk in front of the UH Student Center offers oral-fluid swab PCR testing. The observed and directed self-collected oral fluid swab involves having the person cough deeply three times first, which releases virus from the upper and lower respiratory tract. The virus is then caught in the saliva, the patient then swabs the inside of their cheeks and the roofs of their mouths. Once complete, the patient seals their test within a secure container and returns it to a Curative employee to be sent to the lab. Results are expected within 24-48 hours of the test being received at the lab. UH Student Health Center: The UH Student Health Center offers the SARS CoV-2 RT-PCR test. A sample is gathered by nasal swab. Does UH require mandatory testing for students or employees? UH does not require mandatory testing, but we strongly encourage our campus community to get tested, especially if they have recently traveled, are attending in-person classes, are living or working on campus, or have been potentially exposed to COVID-19. When can I return to campus if I have tested positive for COVID-19 and have been instructed to self-isolate? Written approval is required before any UH community member may return to campus after self-isolation. The timing of your return depends on whether you have exhibited Coronavirus Symptoms or not. See Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation for the process and considerations for determining when a return to campus is allowed. As a reminder, if you receive a positive test result, you must complete the Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis form as soon as possible per UH protocol. What do I do if I am diagnosed with COVID-19? If you are diagnosed with COVID-19, do not come to campus (even if you are symptom-free). Follow the guidance – COVID-19 Diagnosis/Symptoms, which outlines protocols for students, employees, visitors and vendors. What should I do if I have had close contact with a person who tested positive for COVID-19 or is suspected/presumed to have COVID-19? Follow the protocol described in Potential Exposure to Coronavirus. Do I need a negative test or doctor’s note to be able to return to campus after a positive test and self-isolation? No, the university does not require a negative test, a doctor's note or negative lab results for return to work/class/campus nor is this type of test-based strategy recommended by the CDC. However, you must first be approved to return to campus before resuming your normal school, work and related activities. To initiate the process to return to campus following a positive COVID-19 diagnosis, complete the form Request to Return to Campus. Does UH offer testing to the public? No. Patients who do not have a primary care physician can be evaluated and tested at the Lone Star Circle of Care @ UH clinic in the Health 2 building on campus; appointments can be scheduled at 877-800-5722. Free COVID-19 testing using an oral swab can also be accessed at Minute Maid Park, which can be scheduled through this website. Additional free testing resources in Houston may be found on the Houston Emergency Operation Center COVID-19 Testing page. Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus COVID-19 Inquiries Teach Remotely Deliver your classes online. Learn About Teaching Online >> Technology Guide for Faculty >> Learn Remotely Attend classes online. Learn About Learning Online >> Technology Guide for Students >> Do You Need a Laptop? >> Work Remotely Make a flexible workplace arrangement. COVID-19 Telecommuting Form >> Technology Guide for Staff >> Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies