Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Student Legal Services Menu Search TTU Student Legal Services Student Legal Services Everyone was very respectful to me, and did not make me feel dumb for asking questions. Very welcoming staff! A&S major, Junior OFFICE HOURS/NOTARIES Student Legal Services (SLS) is fully open. Please call (806) 742-3289 to set up an appointment with an attorney. Notary services are available too. You only need a notary appointment if you have numerous documents. Please walk-in if you only have one or two documents. Please follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. We provide legal advice, counsel and limited representation for currently enrolled students at TTU/TTUHSC. Our licensed attorneys can advise and/or represent students in variety of legal areas including, but not limited to: landlord/tenant disputes, expunctions, misdemeanors, name changes, essential needs licenses, and small claims consumer disputes. More about our services. Attorney Profiles SLS is staffed by three full-time licensed attorneys, an administrative business assistant and several law clerks and interns. View Attorney Profiles Frequently Asked Questions Answers to some of SLS' most frequently asked legal questions. View Frequently Asked Questions Information on this site is provided for general informational purposes and does NOT constitute legal advice. Students should seek verification and clarification of all statements made on this website through our office. Slight variations in facts and circumstances may make an enormous difference in the legal advice that a particular attorney will render. Students who are confronted with legal problems or who desire specific advice, should make an appointment with an attorney at Student Legal Services or seek the assistance of another licensed attorney. By maintaining this website, Texas Tech University Student Legal Services is not forming any attorney-client relationships. All information contained on this site pertains to Texas law, and should not be relied upon as law in any other state. We cannot guarantee that the information on this site is up to date and accurate, as the laws affecting Texans are in constant transition. This web site contains links to other resources on the Internet. The links are provided as aids to help our students identify and locate internet resources that may be of interest, and are not intended to imply that we sponsor or are affiliated or otherwise associated with the creators of said sites. Texas Tech Student Legal Services is not responsible for the content or validity of information found on any websites herein linked. You further acknowledge that nothing in this Web site is intended to nor constitutes the practice of law or giving of legal advice. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Student Legal Services Follow Student Legal Services on twitterFollow Student Legal Services on twitter Address Student Union Building Rm. 307 Lubbock, TX 79409-1017 Phone 806.742.3289 | Fax: 806.742.0740 Email ambesimp@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityDec 21, 2021 2:16 PM Student Legal Services Annual Reports About US Student Legal Services About US Back Mission, Vision & Assessment Meet Our Attorneys Our Services Contact Us Using Student Legal Services Student Legal Services Using Student Legal Services Back FAQs Forms Helpful Links Make An Appointment Notary Services Live Events Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index