Skip To Main Content ISU Police Search the website Open Search Box Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Reporting A Crime Timely reporting is often the main factor in solving a crime. If you have witnessed a crime on campus or have information concerning a crime on campus, please contact ISU Police. Always dial 9-1-1 in an emergency. This number is continuously monitored by trained dispatchers. It should be used ONLY to report an incident where an immediate response is required by police, fire, or paramedics. Non-emergency and routine business calls should be placed to 515-294-4428. Our dispatchers are trained to obtain the most accurate and complete information possible regarding activities you witness. When contacting ISU Police, please stay on the line until the dispatcher disconnects the call. Calling 9-1-1 can be a stressful situation, but we are here to help. Remember to: Stay calm. Take a deep breath. Briefly tell the dispatcher exactly what is wrong. Give the address of the emergency, the phone number from which you are calling and your name. Stay on the phone until the 9-1-1 dispatcher tells you to hang up. Reporting parties should leave a contact number should follow-up be needed. The information is part of the ongoing investigation and is subject to provisions of The Code of Iowa. Calling 9-1-1 from an emergency phone on campus: Push the button to signal the dispatcher whose voice you will hear from the speaker. Your location is automatically recorded. Public Safety personnel will be sent immediately. Speak clearly, with enough volume to be heard; yelling distorts your voice and your message cannot be understood. Follow the 9-1-1 procedures listed above; stay calm, give complete information, and follow directions given to you by the dispatcher. Your phone call will remain connected until a public safety officer arrives to assist you. Only the dispatcher (not you or an assailant) can disconnect the phone. You may also report crimes in person at 2519 Osborn Dr. or 55 Armory Building. If You Witness a Crime Off-Campus If you observe a crime off-campus, you should contact 911 in emergencies. They will dispatch the appropriate policing agency. Close Video Player Police Department 2519 Osborn Drive 55 Armory Ames, Iowa 50011 E. dpsinfo@iastate.edu P. 515-294-4428 Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy.