Skip to main content For Alumni For Students For Faculty For Staff Library Support the Law School Search Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Search Penn Law Academics A dynamic, cross-disciplinary legal education Academics Degree Requirements Joint Degrees & Certificates Legal Practice Skills Registrar Clinics & Externships Journals Academic Support Program International Affairs Future of the Profession Initiative Legal Education Programs Academic Calendar Center on Professionalism Learning Outcomes Admissions Begin your journey Admissions JD Admissions LLM & Graduate Programs Master in Law Visiting Penn Carey Law ABA Careers Fostering the professional success of students and alumni Careers For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Employment Statistics Calendar Equity & Inclusion Cultivating a diverse and inclusive intellectual community Equity and Inclusion Access Scholarships Resources Community Voices Events Our Team Faculty & Research Transformative work from renowned interdisciplinary scholars Faculty & Research Directory Research & Scholarship Centers & Institutes Academic Fellowships Faculty In the News Public Interest A community anchored in service Public Interest Toll Public Interest Center Pro Bono Public Interest Events Government Support for Public Interest Seeking Pro Bono Services? Clinics & Externships Impact The intellectual vitality of our community Impacts & Insights Articles In the Media Calendar Faculty Perspectives Advocates for Good Pathways to the Profession Academics Degree Requirements Joint Degrees & Certificates Legal Practice Skills Registrar Clinics & Externships Journals Academic Support Program International Affairs Future of the Profession Initiative Legal Education Programs Academic Calendar Center on Professionalism Learning Outcomes Admissions JD Admissions LLM & Graduate Programs Master in Law Visiting Penn Carey Law ABA Careers For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Employment Statistics Calendar Equity and Inclusion Access Scholarships Resources Community Voices Events Our Team Faculty & Research Directory Research & Scholarship Centers & Institutes Academic Fellowships Faculty In the News Public Interest Toll Public Interest Center Pro Bono Public Interest Events Government Support for Public Interest Seeking Pro Bono Services? Clinics & Externships Impact Articles In the Media Calendar Faculty Perspectives Advocates for Good Pathways to the Profession For Alumni For Students For Faculty For Staff Library Support the Law School Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Home News & Events Impacts & Insights News & Events Our pathbreaking scholars, dynamic and inclusive student body, and innovative alumni demonstrate the intellectual vitality of our community. Read on to see their impact. Featured Featured View All Celebrating #PennLaw2022 Penn Law hosted its 170th commencement with remarks from Kenneth Frazier. Watch the Ceremony and view the photos to revisit the celebration. Congratulations to the University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School Class of 2022! 🎉 Historic Clerkship Attainment Next Generation Leaders International Moot Success The Monroe E. Price International Moot Court team will compete in the Worlds Round in June 2022. 2022-2023 Moot Court Board Environmental Justice Advocates Local Local View All Environmental Justice Advocates The Environmental Law Project (ELP) is dedicated to environmental law and policy, fighting climate change, and advancing environmental justice Learning and Teaching Entrepreneurship Continuing Judicial Education Centering Youth Voices Interdisciplinary Child Advocacy Clinic students represent their youth clients on a range of issues including dependency, custody, and education matters. Inspiring Tomorrow’s Leaders Penn Today speaks with Penn’s Interim President Wendell Pritchett Global Global View All Environmental Justice Advocates The Environmental Law Project (ELP) is dedicated to environmental law and policy, fighting climate change, and advancing environmental justice International Energy Perspectives Judging International Moot Competitions Facing Climate Change with Optimism In “Climate Change & the Energy Evolution,” students learn how to use their legal skills to decarbonize the world’s economy. Strengthening and Expanding International Relationships Supporting Global Legal Education Social Social View All Historic Clerkship Attainment During the 2021-2022 academic year, student and alumni applicants obtained 102 total clerkships – the highest number of clerkships ever attained in Law School history. Environmental Justice Advocates Learning and Teaching Entrepreneurship Fighting Mass Incarceration Catherine Kearney C’12, L’22 has been named a 2022 Law School Partnership Project Fellow with Gideon’s Promise. AI & Inequities ‘Devastating But Not Shocking’ Cross Disciplinary Cross Disciplinary View All Environmental Justice Advocates The Environmental Law Project (ELP) is dedicated to environmental law and policy, fighting climate change, and advancing environmental justice Learning and Teaching Entrepreneurship Cross-Disciplinary LGBTQ Certificate Continuing Judicial Education Law School faculty regularly coordinate Continuing Judicial Education programming to help Pennsylvania judges stay abreast of cutting-edge legal issues. AI and Implicit Bias Prof. Cary Coglianese to Discuss Cryptocurrency and Climate Change as Part of Penn’s Energy Week 2022 Research and Scholarship Research and Scholarship View All Celebrating #PennLaw2022 Penn Law hosted its 170th commencement with remarks from Kenneth Frazier. Watch the Ceremony and view the photos to revisit the celebration. Congratulations to the University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School Class of 2022! 🎉 2022-2023 Moot Court Board Environmental Justice Advocates Race and Regulation Podcast Series The Penn Program on Regulation’s “Race and Regulation Podcast Series” will focus on ensuring equal justice, dignity, and respect to all people. Pathbreaking Corporate & Securities Scholarship Recognizing Teaching Excellence ArticlesView All Celebrating #PennLaw2022 Historic Clerkship Attainment Next Generation Leaders International Moot Success In the NewsView All Prof. Jill Fisch Observes that Elon Musk’s Actions Highlight Why Stock Disclosure Rules Matter: Politico Prof. Tom Baker Outlines Trends in COVID-19 Insurance Claim Decisions: The Hollywood Reporter Prof. Jill Fisch Cautions: Standardization”Is Not the Same Thing as Clarity” in Regulating ESG Investments: Financial Times ILE Exec. Dir. Larry Hamermesh Calls the Boardroom Battle for Control of Aerojet Rocketdyne Holdings Inc. a ‘Mess’: Bloomberg Contact and Resources Get in Touch press@law.upenn.edu Have a news tip? Submit a ticket Advances in Research Faculty Brochure Penn Law Journal University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School 3501 Sansom Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 215.898.7483 Centers & Institutes Library Academic Calendar Event Calendar Law School Leadership Penn Contact Support Us Jobs Copyright 2022 University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School. All Rights Reserved. Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | The Fine Print Site Login