Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now French and Francophone Studies (BA) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Modern Languages In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The B.A in French and Francophone Studies focuses on the study of languages, cultures and literatures in France and in the numerous countries where French is spoken, as the official or second language. It consists of 36 credit hours at the 3000 and 4000 level. Placement in Modern Language courses is based on one year of high school language being equivalent to one semester of college work. For example, four years of high school French may place the student in the first semester of the third year. Native speakers, or students who have received advanced education in French-speaking societies, may not take lower division French courses. They can, with their advisor's consent, substitute other upper division level courses for FRE 3780 , FRE 3420, FRE 4422, FRE 3760, and FRE 4421. Admission Requirements None Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. 36 credits in French must be taken at the 3000 level or above in FRW, FRE, FRT and FOW courses. At least six of the 36 French credits must be at the 4000 level. Earn at least a "C" (2.0) in all courses. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 18 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF Department of Modern Languages and Literatures. Language credit by exam will not be given in courses lower in level than those in which students are presently enrolled. Co-op or internship credit cannot be used in this major. Students must see a French advisor to obtain proper counseling and have their schedule approved before registering for courses in their major. Courses designated in Gen Ed Program and Common Program Prerequisites are usually completed in the first 60 hours. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. American Sign Language Interpreter Arabic Professor Biblical Languages Professor Chinese Language Professor Court Interpreter Diplomatic Interpreter French Professor German Professor Greek Professor Hebrew Professor High School Biology Teacher High School English Teacher High School French Teacher High School Math Teacher High School Music Director High School Teacher Japanese Professor Language Translator Spanish Literature Professor Translator Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors French and Francophone Studies (BA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The B.A in French and Francophone Studies focuses on the study of languages, cultures and literatures in France and in the numerous countries where French is spoken, as the official or second language. It consists of 36 credit hours at the 3000 and 4000 level. Placement in Modern Language courses is based on one year of high school language being equivalent to one semester of college work. For example, four years of high school French may place the student in the first semester of the third year. Native speakers, or students who have received advanced education in French-speaking societies, may not take lower division French courses. They can, with their advisor's consent, substitute other upper division level courses for FRE 3780 , FRE 3420, FRE 4422, FRE 3760, and FRE 4421. Admission Requirements None Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. 36 credits in French must be taken at the 3000 level or above in FRW, FRE, FRT and FOW courses. At least six of the 36 French credits must be at the 4000 level. Earn at least a "C" (2.0) in all courses. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 18 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF Department of Modern Languages and Literatures. Language credit by exam will not be given in courses lower in level than those in which students are presently enrolled. Co-op or internship credit cannot be used in this major. Students must see a French advisor to obtain proper counseling and have their schedule approved before registering for courses in their major. Courses designated in Gen Ed Program and Common Program Prerequisites are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 21 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: FRE4701 - Francophone Linguistics (3) FRW3100 - Survey of French Literature I (3) FRE3300 - French Grammar (3) FRE3780 - French Phonetics and Diction (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: FRW3810 - French Literary Texts and Analysis (3) FRW3770 - Francophone Literature (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: FRE3760 - Advanced French Oral Communication (3) FRE4421 - Advanced French Conversation (3) A native or near-native French speaker must substitute alternate upper division French courses in consultation with a departmental advisor. Complete at least 1 of the following: FRE3420 - French Composition (3) FRE4422 - Advanced French Composition (3) A native or near-native French speaker must substitute alternate upper division French courses in consultation with a departmental advisor. Restricted Electives 15 Total Credits Earn at least 15 credits from the following types of courses: Any upper level FRE, FRT, FRW or FOW courses not already used in the major. Capstone Requirements 0 Total Credits Complete all of the following French Exit Exam and Portfolio: Complete the following: FRE4950C - French Portfolio Grand Total Credits: 36 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida