Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Biosystems Engineering (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Clemson’s biosystems engineering program is dedicated to studying the footprints our bright ideas may leave on the Earth and developing new designs to achieve our goals and minimize our ecological impact. Students may choose between two main paths of study that include sustainable bioprocess engineering, with its basis in microbiology, and ecological engineering, with its basis in ecology. The field focuses on the sustainable production of biorefinery compounds (biofuels, bioactive molecules and biomaterials) using metabolic pathways found in nature and green processing technologies. Further, biosystems engineering encompasses the design of sustainable communities utilizing low-impact development strategies (bioretention basins, rainwater harvesting) for stormwater retention and treatment — and ecologically sound food and energy-crop production. FAST FACTS Our faculty and students conduct research that addresses major issues that challenge our planet's sustainability. Students will choose between two emphasis areas for this major: bioprocess engineering and ecological engineering. We offer a five-year plan to get your bachelor's and master's degrees. Undergraduates can join many Creative Inquiry teams focusing on biodiesel plant operation, biohydrogen production, microbial fuel cells, algal biofuels and green infrastructure/low impact development. All students planning to choose an engineering discipline will apply to Clemson as a general engineering major. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Freshmen who major in engineering at Clemson are initially admitted into our general engineering program, where you’ll have a year to explore many different engineering disciplines, meet faculty from each of our engineering departments and discover which major fits your personal interests and talents. On the admissions application, you will apply as a general engineering major. A degree in biosystems engineering opens doors to vast career opportunities ranging from biofuel production to ecological design. To prepare you, classes include engineering science, life sciences and biosystems engineering in bioprocessing, biological kinetics, heat/mass transport, hydrology and ecological engineering. Sustainable Bioprocess Engineering Emphasis: The sustainable bioprocessing engineering area focuses on the microbial conversion of compounds to high-value products using green processing techniques and recycling waste heat, water and nutrients. This area includes biorefinery design to produce biofuels, nutraceuticals, biomaterials, and extraction and separation of byproducts. Ecological Engineering Emphasis: The ecological engineering track allows students to apply engineering and ecological principles to conserving and enhancing Earth’s resources. Students will learn ecological designs (permeable pavement, bioswales, green infrastructure) and how to integrate biological sustainability concepts into energy, water and food systems. Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Program: With this program, you can apply eight credits of your Bachelor of Science course work toward your Master of Science in biosystems engineering, environmental engineering or bioengineering. Curriculum Biosystems Engineering: Bioprocess Engineering Emphasis, B.S. Biosystems Engineering: Ecological Engineering Emphasis, B.S. Popular Minors Environmental Science and Policy Mathematics Languages Sustainability Wildlife and Fisheries Biology Similar Majors Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Chemical Engineering (B.S.) Civil Engineering (B.S.) Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Environmental Engineering (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM With biosystems engineering, almost every major-related class goes beyond the classroom. From collecting/identifying algae found in local lakes to learning how to operate a mobile biodiesel plant, plenty of hands-on experiences await you! Research Our vibrant research community has numerous projects in which students may participate. Major research areas are sustainable biofuels production (biological hydrogen, biodiesel, ethanol), ecosystem management and low impact development. In the field The biosystems engineering curriculum provides you with many experiential learning opportunities that are focused on laboratory skills, field sampling and assessment, fabrication, and engineering design. Creative Inquiry Get involved in Clemson's undergraduate research program, called Creative Inquiry. We currently have projects going on related to campus wastewater treatment and value-added co-products from biofuel waste products.Learn More » Co-op Put your classroom knowledge to work by spending alternate semesters working at a local industry and studying on campus as part of Clemson's cooperative education program. Learn More » Study Abroad Clemson students have study abroad experiences across the globe every semester. As business becomes more global, experiencing and understanding other cultures is becoming more important every day.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Biosystems Engineering Student Club Clemson University Chapter of American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers PEER WISE AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Environmental Specialist Duke Energy Stormwater Professional Withers Ravenel Project Engineer Harper General Contractors Environmental Designer Wildlands Engineering Inc. Manufacturing Associate Precision BioSciences RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Civil Engineering Virginia Tech M.S. Bioengineering Clemson University M.S. Engineering and Technology Management Colorado School of Mines COMMON CAREER AREAS Bioprocess Engineering Biofuels (Biodiesel, Ethanol, etc.) Processing and Bioseparation of Materials Treatment System Design and Operation Municipal Wastewater Solid Wastes Soil and Water Conservation Erosion and Sediment Control Construction Sites Reclaimed Mines Stormwater Management Hydrologic and Water Quality Phenomena Measuring and Monitoring Hydrologic Phenomena Protecting Water Resources from Waste-Management Operations Machinery Systems and Controls Collection and Use of Spatial Information GPS GIS Sensor Development and Control of Equipment Using Sensors: Crop and Process Yield Monitors Instrumentation and Control Systems Site-Specific Control of Machinery: Agricultural Tillage Seeding Irrigation Chemical Application Equipment Biosystems Engineering Natural Resources Food Engineering Education Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Christopher Porter CECAS Undergraduate Recruitment Director 864-656-7870 cporter@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Biosystems Engineering (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Chemical Engineering (B.S.) Civil Engineering (B.S.) Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Environmental Engineering (B.S.)