By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Graduate Admitted In this Section Checklist Transcripts Tuition Deposits Admitted Graduate Students Congratulations on your admission to Syracuse University! We look forward to welcoming you to campus. The most important contact you will have as a Syracuse University graduate student will be with your school or college. However, when accepting your admission the Office of Enrollment Management is your best contact to file your: Intent to Register form Tuition deposit (some programs only) Admitted Student Checklist This checklist will help ensure that your admission acceptance is complete. Intent to Register You will receive your Intent to Register form via email from e-gradadm@syr.edu . You should complete and return it to formally accept your offer of admission. Send completed forms by email to graduateitr@syr.edu or by mail to: Graduate Admissions Processing P.O. Box 35060 Syracuse University Syracuse, NY 13235-5060 If you have been admitted to the College of Law, please review the intent to enroll process . Tuition Deposit Each program of study has specific tuition deposit information. The list below outlines program requirements and deadlines. If you have additional questions please contact us . If your program requires the advance tuition deposit, the tuition deposit can be made on MySlice under Applicant Services and select Graduate Tuition Deposit to make your payment by credit card. School of Architecture All programs College of Arts and Sciences Doctor of Audiology (Au.D.) and Speech-Language Pathology, M.S. programs only College of Engineering and Computer Science Master’s programs only David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Master of Nutrition School of Information Studies Master’s programs only Whitman School of Management Master’s programs only Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Tuition deposit is required for students accepting their admission to the Master of Public Administration (MPA) or Master of Arts in International Relations (MA IR) programs. Those accepting admission to the joint M.P.A./M.A. International Relations program only need to provide one deposit of $500. An advanced tuition deposit is NOT required for students admitted through Executive Education for either of the Executive Degrees in Public Affairs or International Relations. Newhouse School of Public Communications Master’s programs only (excluding Communications Management, Independent Study Degree Program) Note: Your offer of admission will become void if the tuition deposit has not been received by the deadlines indicated. Payment should be in the form of a check or money order payable to Syracuse University. When you enroll for the semester for which you have been admitted your deposit will be credited to your Bursar account as an advance tuition payment. The deposit is not refunded if you do not enroll. Changing Your Semester of Enrollment If you do not plan to enroll at Syracuse University in the semester for which you have been admitted, you must contact your department to defer your admission. If approved, your admission record will be updated accordingly. Related Pages Transcript Requirement By the end of their first semester of study, all graduate students must submit an official transcript which must bear the appropriate signatures and seal of the institution that issued it. Resources for Graduate Students A multitude of organizations and administrative offices at Syracuse University are in place to assist graduate students in meeting the academic, personal, and professional challenges they face. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy