Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Arts in Art, BA Engage the Senses and Inspire Imagination Through Art Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Visual Arts & Design, Schl of 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Build a Vibrant Arts Community Through Creativity The Art, BA program at UCF inspires creativity while also teaching you the foundational elements of art, history and design. We recognize that inspiration and creation are central to what artists do, which is why we provide technical knowledge and hands-on experiences to help you succeed. Plus, with three tracks available, you can choose a path that best fits your interests both personally and professionally. Throughout your coursework, you’ll be challenged to explore how you think about art but also how you see the world around you. Learn from nationally and internationally recognized faculty, find ways to represent your unique view of the world and gain the skills needed to market yourself. You’ll also have the opportunity to connect with local and national organizations — through internships and networking events — that provide first-hand experience with projects such as amusement park entertainment, designs for international clients and films. History Track Acquire specific knowledge about art and architecture from prehistory to the present. The curriculum in this track provides a foundation for the understanding of art, in all of its various forms, and encourages the development of visual literacy. Contextual, as well as stylistic approaches, provide exposure to different methodologies involved in the study of visual material. Studio Track This track enables students to develop their skill set in the following studio areas: book arts, ceramics, drawing, illustration, painting, printmaking, photography, sculpture and time arts. Visual Arts Management Track Explore the management side of the Visual Arts environment while providing a solid foundation in techniques and theory. A minor or approved area of emphasis is required to complement the degree or explore a different area of interest. Highlights The Art, BA programs are under UCF’s award-winning School of Visual Arts and Design. The renowned faculty provide students with the tools and resources needed to succeed beyond the classroom. Florida has one of the highest employment levels for artists in the country, along with Nevada and California. The national median earnings for craft and fine artists is $49,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply.Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Greek Art and Architecture Examine the art and architecture of ancient Greece from the Bronze Age through the end of the Hellenistic period. Theory and Criticism of the Visual Arts Explore criteria of art criticism and theoretical approaches to art meaning through time; art examples from various periods/cultures. Visual Arts Administration Vitas Learn about grant applications; personnel; copyright laws; museum practices, etc. Art Skills You'll Learn Gain a deeper understanding of the foundational elements of art, history and design. Attain critical thinking skills in order to create, observe, research and interpret visual culture. Possess sound organizational skills and exemplary communication abilities to be successful in a variety of professional endeavors. Build bridges between art, artists and audiences by making connections and discussing complex ideas that challenge the status quo. Career Opportunities Illustrator Graphic Designer Fine Artist Curator Animator Art Educator Art Registrar Photographer Gallery Director Art Administrator Archivist Show More Career Opportunities College of Arts and Humanities News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Arts & Culture Dancing with (and Under) the Stars UCF’s KnightRaas dance team generates a link to South Asian heritage whenever and wherever they perform. Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Advice for Young Actors Hollywood actor Adrian R’Mante ’96 discusses his journey from UCF to landing his hit role as Esteban Julio Ricardo Montoya de la Rosa Ramírez on The… Colleges & Campus Makers of the Next New Worlds: UCF’s First Themed Experience Cohort Graduates The first graduating class from UCF’s themed experience track in the theatre Master of Fine Arts program is prepared to create lands and parks that… Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Art (BA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida