Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost Students Current Students Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry Contact Information For questions about the Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry, please email Audrey Colombe at aacolomb@central.uh.edu. Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry The Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry are granted in acknowledgement of the best prose or poetry submission from an undergraduate student. Each award is a cash prize of $2500. Submission Guidelines Poetry Award - TBA - Spring 2022. Eligibility Requirements: Open to all undergraduate students currently enrolled in any department or program, full or part time, at the University of Houston. One entry allowed per student. Enrollment must be current at the time of the submission and the notification of award. Enrollment verification will be made by the Registrar’s Office. Submission Requirements: Work submitted for the Provost Prizes must be the original creative work of the person submitting the entry. Submissions that do not follow the formatting guidelines will be disqualified. To submit an entry, submit a single PDF attachment. Name your document using your PeopleSoft ID number, with no other additions. (Example: 1234567.pdf) No Longer Accepting Entries All entries should have the following: One submission per registered undergraduate student A manuscript (12-point font, 1” margins, single spaced) of no more than five pages, containing no more than one poetry entry along with the submission’s title and the PeopleSoft ID number of the writer The writer’s name must not appear anywhere on the manuscript. Within 48 hours after being notified of the award, winners must be able to submit an electronic copy of the manuscript as a Word Document along with a 100-word bio and photo. Any work submitted and found at any point of the process to be plagiarized will be immediately disqualified and the entry submitted to the Dean of Students for appropriate action (see Student Handbook on plagiarism). Prose Award - TBA - Fall 2022. Eligibility Requirements: Open to all undergraduate students currently enrolled in any department or program, full or part time, at the University of Houston enrolled in spring 2021. One entry allowed per student. Enrollment verification will be made by the Registrar’s Office. Submission Requirements: Work submitted for the Provost Prizes must be the original creative work of the person submitting the entry. Submissions that do not follow the formatting guidelines will be disqualified. To submit an entry, submit a single PDF attachment. Name your document using your PeopleSoft ID number, with no other additions. (Example: 1234567.pdf) No Longer Accepting Entries Please follow these guidelines: Fiction or Nonfiction (prose) only One submission per registered undergraduate student A manuscript (12-point font, 1” margins, double-spaced) of no more than ten pages, containing no more than one prose entry along with the submission’s title and the PeopleSoft ID number of the writer; the writer’s name must not appear anywhere on the manuscript. Within 48 hours after being notified of the award, winners must be able to submit an electronic copy of the manuscript as a Word Document along with a 100-word bio and a photo in jpg or png format Any work submitted and found at any point of the process to be plagiarized will be immediately disqualified and the entry submitted to the Dean of Students for appropriate action (see Student Handbook on plagiarism). Award Committee Judging Process: The Provost Prizes submissions, manuscripts only, will be read by a panel of graduate students from the University’s Creative Writing Program. Each submission will be read by two readers, and the scores will decide the finalists. Finalists will be forwarded to a panel of no fewer than three Creative Writing Faculty for final selection. Notification of Winning Entries: Only the winning entries will be notified via email. The winner and five honorable mentions will be announced via an email and added to the Provost Prizes website before the end of the fall semester. Please check this website periodically for an announcement. Due to the number of submissions, we cannot answer individual inquiries. Winners will be notified using their official University of Houston email address. Winning entries will be published through the Office of the Provost website as well as through the University of Houston magazine. 2021 Prose Winner Winning entry: Better by Now by Piper Gourley Honorable Mentions: Allison Gah Yan Lee, Dying Kyle Chinedu Okeke, I’m a Moderately Omnipotent Duck Zara Mubashir Ahmed, Lucid Dreaming Binh Thai Tang, The Outcasts 2021 Poetry Winner Winning entry: Body by Alyssa Holt Honorable Mentions: Jack Morillo, Speak Fine Thalia Trinidad, The Landscaper 2019 Prose Winner Winning entry: Uproot by Melinda Mayden Honorable Mentions: Piper Gourley, Ziggy Stardust is in the Walls Kennan Lukacs, Light of a Clear Blue Morning Kyle Okeke, The Buddhists of Abuja Katherine Polkinghorne, Alpine Sahar Ahmed, Great Romances of the 21st Century 2019 Poetry Winner Winning entry: Love is Given to the Space Between Window Blinds (El Otro Lado) by Matthew Flores Honorable Mentions: Jon Newell, Photographer's Guide to Twilight Rosa Sosa-Torres, Doctrine Juliane Tran, First Day of Forever Tyler Wallace, Floral Musings Keagan Wheat, Thirteen Ways of Looking at my Father 2018 Prose Winner Winning entry: Requiem for a Lost Cause by Jackson Neal Honorable Mentions: Vinh Hoang, Remains of the Wind Lauren Paige Jackson, Luckier Caroline Mann, What We Talk About When We Talk About Normandy Melinda N. Mayden, Esperanza - Hope Sara Mirza, Blurred Horizon 2018 Poetry Winner Winning entry: After Walking Too Close to the Woods at Midnight by Traci Matlock Honorable Mentions: Candie Fontenot, Aie Vinh Hoang, Hypocracy Jackie Primeau, Punch Camille Rowdon, Nodus Tollens Hiyabu Semere, Other America 2017 Prose Winner Winning entry: Treading Water by Katherine Hill Honorable Mentions: Erin Cadenhead, Lawless Amaka Egbe, Words with Friends Quentin Key-Tello, The Deer Caroline Mann, It's About Time Isbah Mehar, Seasonal Changes 2017 Poetry Winner Winning entry: Anemoia by Gerald Smith Honorable Mentions: Kassidie Barnett-Baldwin, Glasses, Molasses April Lim, GÔNG Samuel LoCaste, cheap whiskey Stephanie Matthiesen, Opera Krystal Ann Williams, Display 2016 Prose Winner Winning entry: People Like That by Zachary Eaton Honorable Mentions: Sarah Backer, Lily and the Plastic Factory Alex Doxakis, The Doctor's Appointment Glorie Martinez, Ruth and Naomi Grace Mazcuri, Web of Black Kathy Tran, I remember you 2016 Poetry Winner Winning entry: Signs and Wonders by Corey Kendrick Honorable Mentions: Marcel Worsley, Requiem After a Dream (Ode to a Crow’s Dance) Dalia Lezzar, No Us, No Them Aries Jones, Home LeeAnne Carlsen, The Vessel Nataly Cantero, My Childhood Was a Coloring Book 2015 Prose Winner Winning entry: The Dance by LeeAnne Carlson Honorable Mentions: Sarah Backer, The Last Supper Dmitriy Borovykh, Starless Joshua Hundl, Rub Some Dirt in It: A Suburban Parable Rachel Lee, Untitled Kathryn Weems, Black Walnut University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies