Skip to main content Main navigation Mobile Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Main navigation Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search About the Library Ask a Librarian View Library Hours Map of Harvard Libraries In This Section Faculty & Research Library & Knowledge Services About & Contact Access & Accessibility In This Section You are here Home Faculty & Research Library & Knowledge Services About & Contact About Harvard Kennedy School Library and Knowledge Services supports the research, learning, and curricular needs of faculty, researchers, students, and staff. It also provides researchers around the world with information related to public policy, public administration, and international affairs. HKS faculty, students, staff, and affiliates, can visit our KNet pages for additional information about LKS and services available to you. Non-affiliated researchers can visit our access & accessibility page to review restrictions and requirements before visiting LKS. Contact Us Call: 617-495-1300 Email: HKS Library Email Ask Us: Ask A Librarian Meet the Library & Knowledge Services Team We are a team with different backgrounds and lots of personality, and we wear many hats. We often work collaboratively to deliver services, as we each bring unique expertise and strengths to our consultations and engagements. If you are not sure who to reach out to, please use our email or Ask A Librarian form and we will connect you to the right person on our team. James Adams, Manager of Research and Data Services James has served as the Manager of Research and Data Services at HKS since February 2022. In addition to his work at HKS, he teaches a course on Information Visualization at the Pratt Institute School of Information. Prior to HKS, James worked as Data and Visualization Librarian at Dartmouth College. He has been an instructor with the Carpentries since 2015, and he teaches the use of free, open tools to promote reproducible research. James holds a BA in Music and English from Boston College and a MS in Library and Information Science from the Pratt Institute. Daniel Becker, Curriculum & Instruction Librarian Daniel coordinates LKS’ instruction and orientation program and teaches workshops on library resources, Zotero and other research tools, as well as academic integrity. He also offers research consultations for students and fellows. His subject specialties include international relations, comparative politics, and contemporary history. In addition, Daniel co-curates the Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging Collection with Alessandra Seiter. Tim Conant, Access Services Coordinator As the Access Services Coordinator, Tim is responsible for the smooth functioning of the circulation and access aspects of the library. He also hires, trains, and manages the student assistant staff, shares oversight for the library’s physical operation, and works with IT to provide computing and printing support to HKS students. Tim received his Bachelor of Liberal Arts, with a social sciences concentration from the Harvard Extension School. When not at the library he can be found working with several service organizations, cooking or caring for his garden. Emma Hernandez, Administrative & Financial Coordinator Emma assists the Executive Director with managing and overseeing the financial and administrative operations across the department. These operations include financial analysis, procurement, and assigned projects. She enjoys spending her spare time with her children. Julie Petzold, Access Services Librarian for HKS & GSE Julie has over seven years of experience in connecting patrons with library resources, overseeing daily operations of library service desks, and managing a team of more than 20 employees committed to the library’s mission of supporting teaching and learning in and out of the classroom. She is a graduate of Emerson College and earned her MLIS from Simmons University. Alessandra Seiter, Community Engagement Librarian Alessandra leads LKS' communications, and builds collaborative initiatives with fellow community members at HKS and Harvard Library. Her librarianship is informed by an academic background in the geography of social movements, and extensive experience in movement organizing and co-operative housing. Much of her research has focused on collective action and the online/offline spaces in which it plays out. She's primarily interested in how libraries can be leveraged to support the visionary knowledge production of counterhegemonic social formations. Christina Sirois, Executive Director Christina has a background in research and data as well as digital content management and structured vocabularies, research dissemination, and copyright and data licensing. She previously worked in knowledge services in the pharmaceutical industry and oversaw research and knowledge services for an economic consulting firm before joining the Harvard Kennedy School. She has her MLIS from Simmons University and her MBA from Babson College. Keely Wilczek, Manager of Collections & Library Services Keely has almost thirty years of experience in libraries, academic and public, including more than a decade at HKS. She oversees all aspects of LKS' collections, both print and digital, and is the point of contact for use of library spaces. For research help, her subject specialties include campaigns and elections, news resources, and the citation tool Zotero, but can give any topic a try. Keely collaborates closely with HKS IT, Harvard Library, and library staff at Harvard's other professional schools to provide patrons with expertise, services, and resources across the university and beyond. She has an AB in Classics from Kenyon College and a MLIS from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Corinne Wolfson, Digital Collections Librarian Corinne is the Digital Collections Librarian at LKS. She oversees the preservation and access of unique HKS content and is the curator of the HKS Political Button Collection. Anne Woodrum, Collections & Library Services Assistant As the Collections & Library Services Assistant, Anne helps students, faculty and staff with research requests and the citation tool Zotero. Anne earned her MLIS degree from Simmons University and has experience delivering reference services in variety of public, academic, and special collections libraries in the Boston area, including the Boston Public Library, Salem State University, and Brandeis University. 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/