Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Enrollment Services Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Housing Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Tuition and Fees Course Fees Dining Withdrawal/Cancellation Info GradGuard Tuition Refund Plan Additional Charges Cost Estimate Calculator Payment Due Dates Loans Loans Family Assistance Loan Summer Studies Loan Financial Aid Parent Information Payments Payments Make A Payment (SMUpay) Payment Methods Returned Checks Payment Plan Options FAQs Cost of Attendance Payment Plan Options Refunds FAQs FAQs Videos ☰ Bursar Payments Payment Plan Options Payment Plan Options Undergraduate & Graduate Dear Members of the SMU Community: In order to assist families with tuition costs, SMU and Nelnet Campus Commerce have partnered on your behalf to provide a variety of payment options. The payment plans allow you to pay your Student Account charges in monthly installments with no interest charges. Payment plans are available for Fall, Spring and Summer Terms. The plans are not available for Jan, May, and August Terms. Re-enrollment in a payment plan is required each term if you choose to participate. If you enroll in a payment plan for your final term at SMU, your diploma will be held until the payment plan is paid-in-full. However, you will still be eligible to participate in the graduation ceremony. A down payment will be required if you enroll in a payment plan close to or after the first installment is due. Fall and Spring Payment Plans Payment plans do not automatically renew. Accordingly, for each term you wish to make monthly payments, you must enroll in a new payment plan. Six Month Payment Plan - This term plan permits payment in 6 installments: July 5 through December 5 for fall and January 5 through June 5 for spring. The non-refundable enrollment fee is $50 per term. The deadline to enroll in this payment plan is August 10 for fall and January 20 for spring. Fall 6 Month Payment Plan Payment Plan Enrollment Period Required Down Payment Number of Payments Automatic Payment Processing Date June 1 - July 2 0 6 July - Dec 5 July 3 - July 26 16% 5 Aug - Dec 5 July 27 - Aug 10 33% 4 Sept - Dec 5 Spring 6 Month Payment Plan Payment Plan Enrollment Period Required Down Payment Number of Payments Automatic Payment Processing Date Nov 1 - Jan 3 0 6 Jan - June 5 Jan 4 - Jan 20 16% 5 Feb - June 5 Five Month Payment Plan - This term plan permits payment in 5 installments: August 20 through December 20 for fall and January 20 through May 20 for spring. The non-refundable enrollment fee is $65 per term. The deadline to enroll in this payment plan is September 30 for fall and February 28 for spring. Fall 5 Month Payment Plan Payment Plan Enrollment Period Required Down Payment Number of Payments Automatic Payment Processing Date June 1 - Aug 16 0 5 Aug - Dec 20 Aug 17 - Sept 11 20% 4 Sept - Dec 20 Sept 12 - Sept 30 40% 3 Oct - Dec 20 Spring 5 Month Payment Plan Payment Plan Enrollment Period Required Down Payment Number of Payments Automatic Payment Processing Date Nov 1 - Jan 17 0 5 Jan - May 20 Jan 18 - Feb 8 20% 4 Feb - May 20 Feb 9 - Feb 28 40% 3 Mar - May 20 Summer Payment Plan This summer plan permits payments in 3 installments: May 20, June 20, July 20. The non-refundable enrollment fee is $75. The deadline to enroll in this payment plan is June 10. Please note that the Summer payment plan may overlap with the Fall and Spring plans so arrange accordingly should you decide to enroll. Summer 3 Month Payment Plan Payment Plan Enrollment Period Required Down Payment Number of Payments Automatic Payment Processing Date April 1 - May 17 0 3 May 20, June 20, July 20 May 18 - June 10 33% 2 June 20, July 20 How to Enroll in a Payment Plan A student or an “Authorized Payer” can enroll in one payment plan per term. Multiple payment plans per term are not permitted. The student or Authorized Payer who creates the payment plan will become the “Plan Owner”. Changes to the payment plan can be made by the student, Authorized Payer, SMU and Nelnet Campus Commerce. Please note that changes made to the "Payment Method" (bank account or credit card information) can only be made by the Plan Owner. Follow the below instructions for enrollment information: Student Enrollment: Log into your my.SMU account Select the Financials tab from the left-hand menu Select SMUpay from the drop-down menu Select Payment Plan from the SMUpay left-hand menu Authorized Payer Enrollment: In order to enroll in a payment plan, your student must set you up as an Authorized Payer. Click here for instructions on How to Add an Authorized Payer. Once you are set up as an Authorized Payer, go to http://quikpayasp.com/smu/bursar/authorized.do. Enter Login Name and Password Click on Payment Plan in the QuikPay menu How to Make a Payment Toward a Payment Plan Automatic payment is required to enroll into a payment plan. Once payment plan is set up, manual payments should not be made to SMU unless payment plan does not cover SMU Student Account charges. Payments must be made via automatic deduction (ACH) from a regular United States checking or savings account or via credit/debit card (VISA, American Express, Discover and MasterCard). ACH payments are free of charge. Credit/debit card payments will be assessed a non-refundable 2.75% (will increase to 2.85%, effective June 1, 2022) service fee per transaction (charged by Nelnet Campus Commerce). ACH payments are processed on the 5th or 20th of the month, depending on which payment plan you select. When the 5th or 20th falls on a weekend or holiday, ACH payments are processed the following business day. Dates and plan terms may be subject to change without notice. How to Calculate the Amount of your Payment Plan Before your Student Account Balance is Determined You can enroll in a payment plan based on an estimated amount. You can estimate the Student Account charges and deduct off any anticipated aid. Once your charges and financial aid are determined, your payment plan can be adjusted (refer to “How to adjust a payment plan” below). Please make sure that your SMU Student Account is fully covered by the SMU payment due date to avoid past due fees of 1.5% per month on any unpaid balance. We created an undergraduate student Cost Estimate Calculator to help you determine the amount of your payment plan total. How to Adjust a Payment Plan A key to a successful payment plan is budgeting correctly. If the payment plan is budgeted incorrectly, your payment plan must be adjusted. In this regard, SMU will decrease your payment plan if the plan exceeds the actual costs. If your payment plan does not cover the actual costs, you will need to either increase your payment plan or pay the remaining balance to SMU by the SMU due date. Please follow the below instructions to adjust your payment plan: Students: Log into your my.SMU account Select the Financials tab from the left-hand menu Select SMUpay from the drop-down menu Click on the Payment Plan tab in the QuikPay menu Click on the Agreement ID# for the payment plan Click on Adjust Balance Click on the circle to Increase your Estimated Balance by the Amount you Enter Below if you wish to increase your payment plan or Click on the circle to Decrease your Estimated Balance by the Amount you Enter Below if you wish to decrease your payment plan Type in the amount to increase or decrease the payment plan by Click continue Authorized Payers: Log into http://quikpayasp.com/smu/bursar/authorized.do Click on the Payment Plan tab in the QuikPay menu Click on the Agreement ID# for the payment plan Click on Adjust Balance Click on the circle to Increase your Estimated Balance by the Amount you Enter Below if you wish to increase your payment plan or Click on the circle to Decrease your Estimated Balance by the Amount you Enter Below if you wish to decrease your payment plan Type in the amount to increase or decrease the payment plan by Click continue Payment Plan FAQs 1. When can I enroll in a payment plan? April 1 – Enrollment opens for Summer plans June 1 – Enrollment opens for Fall plans November 1 – Enrollment opens for Spring plans 2. May I enroll in a payment plan for prior term or future term charges? Payment plans are term specific and cannot be used to pay prior or future terms. 3. Is it possible to have more than one payment plan per term? Only one payment plan per term, per student, is permitted. 4. What happens if my payment is rejected? If your monthly installment is returned for any reason, Nelnet will notify the Plan Owner and student via email and will reattempt to process the monthly installment from the account provided. The reattempt will occur on or around the 5th of the month for the 5 Month and Summer plans. The reattempt will occur on or around the 20th of the month for the 6 Month plans. If the reattempted payment is returned, your payment plan will automatically terminate without any further notice to you. Upon termination, all unpaid balances will be immediately due and payable to SMU. Furthermore, we reserve the right to refuse your participation in future Nelnet payment plans. If a payment returns, Nelnet Campus Commerce will assess a $30 returned payment fee. 5. What happens if my payment plan defaults? If your payment plan terminates due to two returned payments, you are no longer eligible for future payment plan options. 6. Can I enroll in a payment plan if my balance is not yet determined? Yes, you can enroll in a payment plan, even prior to enrolling in any classes, based on an estimated amount. Please refer to “How to Calculate the Amount of your Payment Plan Before your Student Account Balance is Determined”, above. 7. What charges can be included in the payment plan? All Student Account charges can be included in a payment plan. Miscellaneous Account charges must be paid directly to SMU. 8. How do I update my bank account or credit card information used for my payment plan? Only Plan Owners can change the Payment Method (the current bank account or credit card used for scheduled payment plan installments). Please keep this in mind when enrolling in a payment plan. If you are a student, but not the Plan Owner, you will not be permitted to update the Payment Method. If the student is the Plan Owner, only the student (not the Authorized Payer) is permitted to update the Payment Method. Follow the below instructions to update the Payment Method: Students who are Plan Owners: Log into your my.SMU account Click on the Payment Plan tab in the QuikPay menu. Click on the Agreement Id# In the large box, next to Payment Method, click on Change Payment Method. Make and save changes. Authorized Payers who are Plan Owners Log into http://quikpayasp.com/smu/bursar/authorized.do. Click on the Payment Plan tab in the QuikPay menu. Click on the Agreement Id#. In the large box, next to Payment Method, click on Change Payment Method. Make and save changes. 9. Once my payment plan is set up, do I need to log in each month to make my payment? No, your payment plan is set up with automatic payments. Making a one-time payment to SMU does not automatically stop or adjust the timing or amount of the next regularly scheduled automatic payment. Please note, that if your payment plan does not cover your entire SMU Student Account balance, you will need make a manual payment to SMU or increase your payment plan to include the shortfall amount. 10. I have questions about my payment plan. For assistance with your payment plan, please contact Nelnet Campus Commerce at 888-470-6014 from 7am-9pm Monday–Friday CST and 9am-2pm on Saturdays CST. You can also contact the SMU Bursar’s Office via email at Enrol_serv@smu.edu or by phone at 214-768-3417 from 9am–4pm Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday and 10am–4pm on Wednesdays. Payments Home Payment Methods Returned Checks Payment Plan Options FAQs Cost of Attendance Pay Now Students Parents Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share