COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Health Administration, Major MajorHealth Administration All Programs College of Health Professions Public Health Sciences The dual/accelerated online Bachelor of Science (BS) in health management to Master of Health Administration (MHA) from Wichita State is designed to prepare qualified students for graduate work in health administration at WSU, while allowing them to earn dual credit toward their bachelor's degree. Students admitted to the accelerated program are allowed to enroll in courses for graduate credit (up to 9 credit hours) while completing their undergraduate degree requirements. Learn how health administration is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission requirements and additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Student group improves public health through Tobacco Free campus initiative Public Health Sciences students helped start and implement the Tobacco Free Campus Ambassador program to support the WSU Tobacco Free campus policy. The push to go tobacco free has been led by Public Health Sciences going back to 2005 when a group of students formed the Health, Education, Advocates for Leadership, Teamwork and Humanity (HEALTH) Student Association. Students also celebrate National Public Health Week annually by volunteering in the community and displaying health educational materials around campus. Curriculum Students admitted to the accelerated program may enroll in courses for graduate credit (up to nine credit hours) while completing their undergraduate degree requirements for health management. Curriculum covers areas of management, health care finance, human resource administration, strategic planning, law and ethics, health economics, health information systems and more. View the curriculum Careers A Bachelor of Science (BS) in health management and Master of Health Administration from Wichita State will give you a broad range of health-related knowledge—preparing you for a variety of graduate programs and high-paying administrative careers in settings such as acute-care medicine, community health, long-term care and others. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Aging Studies (Bachelor's to Master's) Health Management (Minor) Health Management 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©