Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Resource Center Policy on Personal Conduct Policies and Standards of Conduct Policy on Academic Conduct Sexual and Gender Based Harassment Other Forms of Harassment Policies and Standards of Conduct Policy on Personal Conduct A free environment for academic pursuits requires reasonable conduct, both in academic and nonacademic affairs, by all members of the school. The faculty may impose discipline or penalties on individuals for acts that disrupt or endanger the university community’s pursuit of teaching, learning, and research in an atmosphere of free inquiry and personal and psychological security. The faculty may consider sanctions whether or not civil or criminal penalties are imposed. Violation of specific domains considered here include, but are not limited to, plagiarism, sexual and racial harassment, the use of physical violence, and lying to an officer. Procedures for disciplinary hearings and sanctions are described in the section below titled Review Process. The Student’s Responsibility Students are bound by those policies of Harvard University and the Graduate School of Design that govern student conduct. Access to and familiarity with the policies that govern student conduct are a right and responsibility of every student and students are expected to be familiar with those policies. Such a learning environment depends upon considerate behavior toward all members, respect for one another’s privacy, and accurate representation of one’s own work. Students, faculty, and staff are subject to the policies of Harvard University that govern the conduct of members of the School as articulated in the University-wide Statement of Rights and Responsibilities. View here: provost.harvard.edu/university-wide-statement-rights-and-responsibilities Respect for Others and Their Property Behavior should be respectful of the rights, privileges, and sensibilities of other people, whether or not they are members of the academic community, and their property, whether or not it is university property. Intimidating, threatening, or hostile behavior toward others is a violation of this policy and may subject the offender to school and university sanctions. Likewise, willful destruction, theft and vandalism of the work or possessions of another student or group of students or of any educational resource (including computers and library materials) and unauthorized use of property are unacceptable and may also subject the offender to sanctions. Personal Safety Willful behavior that endangers the personal safety of others, whether or not they are members of the GSD, is a violation of school policies and may subject the offender to sanctions. Riots, violent intimidation or threats, use of weapons, physical assault, and any other acts that endanger the physical well-being of individuals are violations of this policy. As discussed below, the GSD has adopted the University-wide Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment Policy (“University Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment Policy”). Protests and Demonstrations Freedom of speech and assembly, including spontaneous and organized protests and demonstrations, is an essential part of both academic life and the culture of the United States. However, protesters and demonstrators are obliged to respect the rights of other individuals and especially to ensure personal safety for all participants. Although peaceful demonstrations are a matter of civil rights, it is a violation of this policy for any member of the GSD community to prevent or disrupt university functions, such as lectures, seminars, reviews, meetings, and other public events; and administrative, study, design, research, interview, and other nonpublic activities. Contact Persons Anyone who has reason to believe that a student has engaged in conduct that violated the school’s policies on academic integrity, respect for others and their property, personal safety, or protests and demonstrations should report the matter to the dean of students or other member of the administration. The GSD has adopted the University-wide Sexual and Gender-based Harassment Policy (see below). See separate webpage for academic misconduct policies and procedures. Review Process for Violations of the Policies on Student Conduct and Non-Discrimination Informal Complaint Process Any GSD community member who wishes to discuss a possible violation of the policy on personal conduct should make an appointment to meet with the dean of students. Cases of violations of the GSD student conduct policy or discrimination may be resolved informally. The dean of students will discuss this option with the person bringing forth the possible violation, the ‘complainant.’ Formal Complaint Process If a satisfactory resolution cannot be found through an informal approach, and the complainant wishes to pursue the matter (or elects not to seek an informal resolution), the complainant will confer with the dean of students and submit a written complaint to the dean of students. The written complaint should specify the following: a. The full name and contact information of the complainant; b. The name and contact information (if known) of the respondent or respondents (person or persons against whom the charge is made); c. A statement of the facts that support the allegation of a violation of the University Policy; d. The date or dates and location of the alleged acts or practices. Attached to the complaint should be a list of any sources of information (for example, witnesses, correspondence, and the like) that the complainant believes might be relevant to the investigation, but a complaint should not be delayed if such sources of information are unknown or unavailable. The University does not limit the timeframe for filing a complaint, although a complainant is encouraged to file as soon as reasonably possible, both for effective gathering of information, and also to allow time for the Review Board to review the case, if necessary, in the event that the respondent is graduating or is no longer employed by the University. Although the initiation of a complaint in cases involving student conduct will be addressed by the Review Board panel, it may also be suggested or required, depending on the circumstances, that the Harvard University Police Department be notified. In cases that involve a civil suit, the dean of students may decide to proceed with a review independently of the suit or may decline to review a case that is considered to be in the purview of the civil courts only. Review Board Procedures The Review Board The Review Board will be comprised of six voting members of the Faculty of Design serving staggered three-year terms, of whom one will be designated chair by the dean. Three members of the Review Board will be elected, one from each academic department. The dean will appoint three at-large members and will also appoint an officer of the administration to serve as an ex-officio (nonvoting) member of the board. All formal complaints and charges will be reviewed by a panel consisting of at least three faculty members normally selected from among the members of the Review Board in advance plus the nonvoting member of the board. Review of Facts On occasion, the panel appointed by the Review Board may investigate the facts or may request that an appropriate member of the university community investigate and report in writing. The Review Board Panel The registrar or other designated official of the University will staff the Panel and will initiate disciplinary proceedings by sending a letter to the student, the ‘respondent,’ with relevant materials, including: A copy of the complainant’s written statement of alleged misconduct. The composition of the Review Board Panel, with notification that within three days of being notified of the composition of the Panel, the student may challenge participation by any member of the Panel reviewing the case in question by written petition to the registrar or other official staffing the panel. For good cause, as determined by the Dean of the Faculty of Design, the challenged Panel member shall be replaced by an alternate member. A copy of the School’s Policy on Personal Conduct and Dealing with Violations. A copy of documents related to student’s prior cases of personal misconduct, if applicable, with the statement, ‘The review will take into account prior instances of personal misconduct.’ Notification of the student’s right to respond within seven days from receipt of the charge by submitting a response to the registrar or other designated official who is staffing the Panel. Notification that the registrar or other designated official is available to discuss the process with the student with the caveat that the registrar or other official will be providing staff support to the Panel, but is not a voting member. The registrar or other designated official of the University also will notify the complainant of the composition of the Review Board Panel. Within three days of notification of the composition of the Panel, the complainant also may challenge participation by any member of the Panel reviewing the case in question, by written petition to the registrar or other designated official staffing the panel. For good cause, as determined by the Dean of the Faculty of Design, the challenged Panel member shall be replaced by an alternate member. Copies of all the materials above (including the letter to the student) will be sent to the members of the Review Board Panel. As noted in #5 above, the student has the right to submit a written statement to the Panel and to offer any evidence bearing on the matter. The student is encouraged to meet with their academic advisor, another faculty member, or administrator to review this statement or to discuss the situation. Hearing During the academic year the Panel will meet as quickly as is reasonably possible, given the Panel’s schedule and the need to investigate matters carefully. Outside the academic year, an extension of time for the meeting may be necessary. Normally, the complainant and the respondent have a right to meet with the Review Board Panel as part of the hearing process. Each may be accompanied by a designated advisor of their choice from within the GSD community. Since the hearing process is not a legal proceeding, legal counsel may not be present. The respondent must notify the registrar or other designated official of the name of the designated advisor at least 24 hours prior to the meeting with the Panel. The hearing will not be open to the public. Participation will be determined by the Panel. The Panel will make a finding as to whether or not violation of the policy on personal conduct has occurred and, if it has, determine which sanctions if any are appropriate. Sanctions that may be imposed in cases of misconduct are described below. Panel Decisions Upon agreement of the complainant and respondent, the panel may waive any step(s) in these procedures. The panel may determine at any point in these procedures that, based on the information available, insufficient evidence exists to warrant further review or possible sanctions. The panel will notify all concerned parties of this finding and consider the matter closed, except as provided in the Appeal section below. Sanctions When a violation of the GSD Policy is found to have occurred, the Review Board panel will consider the imposition of appropriate sanctions. In the event that the respondent is a member of the GSD faculty, the panel will forward its findings to the dean for consideration and possible action according to the policies and procedures that govern faculty. Students are expected to comply with all disciplinary rules from matriculation until the conferring of the degree. A degree will not be granted to a student who is not in good standing or against whom a disciplinary charge is pending. Sanctions for a student may include, but are not limited to, the following: Admonition: A formal reprimand that becomes part of the student’s official record but does not appear on the transcript (minor sanction). Probation: Conditional permission to remain at the GSD. Probation becomes part of the student’s official record but does not appear on the transcript (minor sanction). Involuntary Leave of Absence: Temporary separation from the GSD for a specified period of time, after which the student is ordinarily reinstated, or may be required to request permission from the panel to be reinstated, sometimes under probation. Involuntary leave of absence is part of the student’s official record and ‘Leave of Absence’ is noted on the student’s transcript (minor sanction). Requirement to Withdraw: The requirement to withdraw normally is effective immediately upon the decision of the panel. A student who is required to withdraw, for whatever reason, is not in good standing until readmitted. The student must apply for readmission to the panel and through the regular admissions process. The reason for withdrawal is part of the student’s official record but is not specified on the student’s transcript, although the withdrawal is noted on the transcript (minor sanction). Dismissal: The action taken by the panel is a recommendation to the Student Sanctions Committee that the student be dismissed. Dismissal ends a student’s connection with the University and requires a two-thirds vote by the Student Sanctions Committee. The sanction of dismissal does not necessarily preclude a student’s return to the GSD. A dismissed student may petition for readmission and be readmitted only upon a two-thirds vote in favor by members of the Student Sanctions Committee, of which 7 of the 9 committee members must be present, in addition to applying for admission through the regular admissions process. A dismissed student is not in good standing until readmitted. Dismissal becomes part of a student’s official record and will appear on the student’s official transcript (major sanction). Expulsion: The action taken by the panel is a recommendation to the Student Sanctions Committee that the student be expelled. Requires a two-thirds vote by the Student Sanctions Committee. The student may not reapply and expulsion is part of the student’s official record and is noted on the student’s transcript, though the reason for the expulsion is not specified on the transcript (major sanction). Student Sanctions Committee Decisions of the Panel that recommend dismissal or expulsion require a two-thirds vote by the Student Sanctions Committee (of which seven (7) of the nine (9) Committee members must be present). When a disciplinary case is referred to the Student Sanctions Committee for a vote of dismissal or expulsion, the Chair of the Panel will present the facts of the case in a written report to the Committee. If the Committee fails to accept by two-thirds vote a recommendation by the Review Board Panel for dismissal or expulsion, the case shall be returned to the Panel for reconsideration of an alternate sanction. Notification The registrar or other designated official will notify the respondent of the decision of the Review Board Panel or the final action of the Student Sanctions Committee. In certain circumstances, the result of the disciplinary proceeding may also be disclosed to others. Appeals All sanctions or other decisions made by the Review Board Panel or Student Sanctions Committee are subject to appeal. An appeal may be directed to the dean within one week of being notified of the decision in question. Appeals will generally be granted only on the basis of new evidence or significant procedural error. The Dean’s ruling on the appeal will be made as quickly as is reasonably possible and is final. In cases where the appeal pertains to dismissal or expulsion, and the result of the appeal is a recommendation by the dean for a change in sanction, a new vote of the Student Sanctions Committee is required. At that time, the Committee’s decision is final. The respondent will be notified of the final decision. In certain circumstances, the result of the disciplinary proceeding may also be disclosed to others. Panel Discretion The panel may, in its discretion and for good cause, alter any deadlines in these procedures. Sexual and Gender Based Harassment On May 6, 2020, the United States Department of Education issued new Title IX regulations with an effective implementation date of August 14, 2020. As a result, and consistent with Federal regulatory requirements, the below Policy and procedures will be revised and replaced. New versions are available on the Title IX website as of August 14, 2020. The GSD has adopted the University-wide Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment Policy. The University Policy is reproduced in its entirety below. Harvard University is committed to maintaining a safe and healthy educational and work environment in which no member of the University community is, on the basis of sex, sexual orientation, or gender identity, excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of, or subjected to discrimination in any University program or activity. Gender-based and sexual harassment, including sexual violence, are forms of sex discrimination in that they deny or limit an individual’s ability to participate in or benefit from University programs or activities. This Policy is designed to ensure a safe and non-discriminatory educational and work environment and to meet legal requirements, including: Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in the University’s programs or activities; relevant sections of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act; Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in employment; and Massachusetts laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex, sexual orientation, and gender identity. It does not preclude application or enforcement of other University or School policies. It is the policy of the University to provide educational, preventative and training programs regarding sexual or gender-based harassment; to encourage reporting of incidents; to prevent incidents of sexual and gender-based harassment from denying or limiting an individual’s ability to participate in or benefit from the University’s programs; to make available timely services for those who have been affected by discrimination; and to provide prompt and equitable methods of investigation and resolution to stop discrimination, remedy any harm, and prevent its recurrence. Violations of this Policy may result in the imposition of sanctions up to, and including, termination, dismissal, or expulsion, as determined by the appropriate officials at the School or unit. Retaliation against an individual for raising an allegation of sexual or gender-based harassment, for cooperating in an investigation of such a complaint, or for opposing discriminatory practices is prohibited. Submitting a complaint that is not in good faith or providing false or misleading information in any investigation of complaints is also prohibited. Nothing in this Policy shall be construed to abridge academic freedom and inquiry, principles of free speech, or the University’s educational mission. Definitions Sexual Harassment Sexual harassment is unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature, including unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, nonverbal, graphic, or physical conduct of a sexual nature, when: (1) submission to or rejection of such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a condition of an individual’s employment or academic standing or is used as the basis for employment decisions or for academic evaluation, grades, or advancement (quid pro quo); or (2) such conduct is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive that it interferes with or limits a person’s ability to participate in or benefit from the University’s education or work programs or activities (hostile environment). Quid pro quo sexual harassment can occur whether a person resists and suffers the threatened harm, or the person submits and avoids the threatened harm. Both situations could constitute discrimination on the basis of sex. A hostile environment can be created by persistent or pervasive conduct or by a single severe episode. The more severe the conduct, the less need there is to show a repetitive series of incidents to prove a hostile environment. Sexual violence, including rape, sexual assault, and domestic and dating violence, is a form of sexual harassment. In addition, the following conduct may violate this Policy: • Observing, photographing, videotaping, or making other visual or auditory records of sexual activity or nudity, where there is a reasonable expectation of privacy, without the knowledge and consent of all parties • Sharing visual or auditory records of sexual activity or nudity without the knowledge and consent of all recorded parties and recipient(s) • Sexual advances, whether or not they involve physical touching • Commenting about or inappropriately touching an individual’s body • Requests for sexual favors in exchange for actual or promised job benefits, such as favorable reviews, salary increases, promotions, increased benefits, or continued employment • Lewd or sexually suggestive comments, jokes, innuendoes, or gestures • Stalking Other verbal, nonverbal, graphic, or physical conduct may create a hostile environment if the conduct is sufficiently persistent, pervasive, or severe so as to deny a person equal access to the University’s programs or activities. Whether the conduct creates a hostile environment may depend on a variety of factors, including: the degree to which the conduct affected one or more person’s education or employment; the type, frequency, and duration of the conduct; the relationship between the parties; the number of people involved; and the context in which the conduct occurred. Unwelcome Conduct Conduct is unwelcome if a person (1) did not request or invite it and (2) regarded the unrequested or uninvited conduct as undesirable or offensive. That a person welcomes some sexual contact does not necessarily mean that person welcomes other sexual contact. Similarly, that a person willingly participates in conduct on one occasion does not necessarily mean that the same conduct is welcome on a subsequent occasion. Whether conduct is unwelcome is determined based on the totality of the circumstances, including various objective and subjective factors. The following types of information may be helpful in making that determination: statements by any witnesses to the alleged incident; information about the relative credibility of the parties and witnesses; the detail and consistency of each person’s account; the absence of corroborating information where it should logically exist; information that the Respondent has been found to have harassed others; information that the Complainant has been found to have made false allegations against others; information about the Complainant’s reaction or behavior after the alleged incident; and information about any actions the parties took immediately following the incident, including reporting the matter to others. In addition, when a person is so impaired or incapacitated as to be incapable of requesting or inviting the conduct, conduct of a sexual nature is deemed unwelcome, provided that the Respondent knew or reasonably should have known of the person’s impairment or incapacity. The person may be impaired or incapacitated as a result of drugs or alcohol or for some other reason, such as sleep or unconsciousness. A Respondent’s impairment at the time of the incident as a result of drugs or alcohol does not, however, diminish the Respondent’s responsibility for sexual or gender-based harassment under this Policy. Gender-Based Harassment Gender-based harassment is verbal, nonverbal, graphic, or physical aggression, intimidation, or hostile conduct based on sex, sex-stereotyping, sexual orientation or gender identity, but not involving conduct of a sexual nature, when such conduct is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive that it interferes with or limits a person’s ability to participate in or benefit from the University’s education or work programs or activities. For example, persistent disparagement of a person based on a perceived lack of stereotypical masculinity or femininity or exclusion from an activity based on sexual orientation or gender identity also may violate this Policy. Jurisdiction This Policy applies to sexual or gender-based harassment that is committed by students, faculty, staff, Harvard appointees, or third parties, whenever the misconduct occurs: 1. On Harvard property; or 2. Off Harvard property, if: a) the conduct was in connection with a University or University-recognized program or activity; or b) the conduct may have the effect of creating a hostile environment for a member of the University community. Monitoring and Confidentiality A variety of resources are available at the University and in the area to assist those who have experienced gender-based or sexual harassment, including sexual violence. Individuals considering making a disclosure to University resources should make sure they have informed expectations concerning privacy and confidentiality. The University is committed to providing all possible assistance in understanding these issues and helping individuals to make an informed decision. It is important to understand that, while the University will treat information it has received with appropriate sensitivity, University personnel may nonetheless need to share certain information with those at the University responsible for stopping or preventing sexual or gender-based harassment. For example, University officers, other than those who are prohibited from reporting because of a legal confidentiality obligation or prohibition against reporting, must promptly notify the School or unit Title IX Coordinator about possible sexual or gender-based harassment, regardless of whether a complaint is filed. Such reporting is necessary for various reasons, including to ensure that persons possibly subjected to such conduct receive appropriate services and information; that the University can track incidents and identify patterns; and that, where appropriate, the University can take steps to protect the Harvard community. This reporting by University officers will not necessarily result in a complaint; rather, the School or unit Title IX Coordinator, in consultation with the Title IX Officer, will assess the information and determine what action, if any, will be taken. Information will be disclosed in this manner only to those at the University who, in the judgment of the Title IX Officer or School or unit Title IX Coordinator, have a need to know. Should individuals desire to discuss an incident or other information only with persons who are subject to a legal confidentiality obligation or prohibition against reporting, they should ask University officers for information about such resources, which are available both at the University and elsewhere. University officers are available to discuss these other resources and to assist individuals in making an informed decision. Violations of Other Rules The University encourages the reporting of all concerns regarding sexual or gender-based harassment. Sometimes individuals are hesitant to report instances of sexual or gender-based harassment because they fear they may be charged with other policy violations, such as underage alcohol consumption. Because the University has a paramount interest in protecting the well-being of its community and remedying sexual or gender-based harassment, other policy violations will be considered, if necessary, separately from allegations under this Policy. Resources • Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (24 hours) | 617-495-9100 • Harvard University Police Department | 617-495-1212 (Provides transportation to the Beth Israel Hospital or a hospital of your choice.) • Harvard University Health Services | 617-495-5711 • HUHS Behavioral Health Services | 617-495-2323 • Bureau of Study Counsel | 617-495-2581• Harvard Chaplains | 617-495-5529 • Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Rape Crisis Intervention Center | 617-667-8141 • Boston Area Rape Crisis Center | 617-492-8306 or 1-800-841-8371 • Cambridge Police Department | 617-349-3300 • Employee Assistance Program | 877-327-4278 Local Title IX Resource Coordinators Title IX Resource Coordinators for Students: Kelly Wisnaskas ktwisnaskas@gsd.harvard.edu Assistant Director of Student Support and Services 48 Quincy Street, Gund Hall 422 617-496-8306 Title IX Resource Coordinator for Faculty: Pamela Baldwin pamela_baldwin@harvard.edu Asst. Dean for Faculty Affairs 48 Quincy Street, Gund Hall 409c 617-495-5409 Title IX Resource Coordinators for Staff: Sara Wilkinson swilkinson@gsd.harvard.edu and Lauren Baccus lbaccus@gsd.harvard.edu Directors of Human Resources 7 Sumner Road, suite 203 617-495-4322 University Title IX Coordinator: Nicole Merhill nicole_merhill@harvard.edu Title IX Office Smith Campus Center, Suite 901 1350 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 617-496-2470; http://titleix.harvard.edu/ Director of the Office for Dispute Resolution (ODR): William McCants odr@harvard.edu Smith Campus Center, Suite 901 1350 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-3786; http://odr.harvard.edu/ Other Forms of Harassment The following addresses the GSD’s policies governing harassment that is not covered by the University Policy. Harassment can create an environment in which access to education and employment is diminished. The GSD seeks to maintain an atmosphere free of harassment. There are obligations of civility and respect for others that underlie rational discourse. Harassment not only shows grave disrespect for the dignity of others but also impedes the free discussion and exchange of ideas. This policy statement seeks to define the circumstances under which behavior affecting the GSD community may constitute impermissible harassment and grounds for disciplinary action. It also seeks to clarify the point at which protected free expression ends and prohibited harassment begins. Policy It is impermissible for any member of the GSD community to engage in harassment of others. This includes, but is not limited to, harassment based on characteristics such as race, color, national origin, religion, age, creed, ancestry, veteran status, or disability. Harassment is particularly objectionable when it involves the abuse of GSD authority. Such behavior, as defined in the following section, may be grounds for disciplinary action such as censure, probation, separation, dismissal, or expulsion. Definitions Physical Harassment Certain physical acts may constitute harassment. These include, but are not limited to, assault, unwelcome touching, physical intimidation, defacing or damaging property, interference with freedom of movement, and other forms of behavior that violate federal or state civil rights law. Such acts are impermissible whether or not they are based on characteristics such as race, color, national or ethnic origin, religion, age, political beliefs, veteran status, or disability status. The fact that physical harassment may be accompanied by verbal or symbolic expression does not make the physical harassment less punishable. Verbal or Symbolic Harassment Certain purely verbal or symbolic expression may also constitute harassment. Epithets, threats and other abusive expressions, or unwelcome comments may constitute harassment and are impermissible if, from the standpoint of a reasonable person, they are sufficiently severe or pervasive to affect adversely an individual’s working or learning environment. This category includes but is not limited to, expressions based on such characteristics as race, ethic group, religious belief, disability status, or age. Depending on the circumstances, verbal expressions may be punishable where, from the standpoint of a reasonable person, they (1) are addressed directly to an individual or several individuals; (2) insult, stigmatize, or intimidate the individual(s); and (3) evince on the part of the speaker(s) grave disrespect and intent to demean the individual(s). Racial Harassment The GSD seeks to maintain an instructional environment free from racial harassment. The GSD defines racial and ethnic harassment as actions on the part of an individual or group that demean or abuse another individual or group because of race, national origin, or ancestry. Such actions may include but are not restricted to using racial epithets, making racially derogatory remarks, and using racial or ethnic stereotypes. Resolution of Harassment Concerns GSD has incorporated the University’s Procedures for Handling Complaints Involving Students Pursuant to the University’s Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment Policy. In connection with concerns relating to other forms of harassment, a student of the GSD community who believes that harassment has occurred or would like clarification or information on the GSD complaint and resolution procedures, is encouraged to bring this matter to the attention of the dean of students. (See ‘Review Process’ for a description of the review process.) Consensual Romantic Relationships Unprofessional Conduct in Relationships between Individuals of Different University Status Amorous relationships that might be appropriate in other circumstances always have inherent dangers when they occur between any teacher or officer of the university and any person for whom he or she has a professional responsibility (i.e., as teacher, advisor, evaluator, supervisor). Implicit in the idea of professionalism is the recognition by those in positions of authority that in their relationships with students or staff there is always an element of power. It is incumbent upon those with authority not to abuse, nor seem to abuse, the power with which they are entrusted. GSD officers and other members of the teaching staff should be aware that any romantic involvement with their students may make them liable for formal action against them. Even when both parties have consented at the outset to the development of such a relationship, it is the officer or instructor who, by virtue of his or her special responsibility and educational mission, will be held accountable for unprofessional behavior. Teaching fellows, or teaching assistants may be less accustomed than faculty members to thinking of themselves as holding professional responsibilities, but they, too, are subject to this policy. They may need to exercise special care in their relationships with students whom they instruct, evaluate, or otherwise supervise, recognizing that their students might view them as more powerful than they may perceive themselves to be. Amorous relationships between members of the faculty and/or with students that occur outside of any direct or formal relationship can also lead to difficulties. In personal relationships between individuals with whom there is no current, direct line of professional responsibility and authority, the senior person should be sensitive to the constant possibility that he or she may unexpectedly be placed in a position of responsibility for a student’s instruction or a faculty member’s evaluation. This could involve being called upon to write a letter of recommendation or to serve on an admissions or selection committee involving the other individual. In addition, one should be aware that others may speculate that a specific power relationship exists even when there is none, giving rise to assumptions of inequitable academic or professional advantage for the student or faculty member involved. Relationships between officers and students or senior and junior faculty are categorically discouraged by the GSD, and may fall under the purview of this policy Review Process Review Process for Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment Cases The GSD has incorporated the University’s procedures for handling complaints involving students pursuant to the [University’s] Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment Policy, including for purposes of student discipline. The procedures with respect to alleged harassment by a Harvard student are contained in the University policies available here: https://titleix.harvard.edu/policies-procedures. None of the provisions outlined here contradict or replace any provisions of the University Procedures. These provisions are intended to supplement the University Procedures and detail the GSD role at moments when the University Procedures refer to actions taken or decisions made by the “School or unit.” To the extent any existing GSD policies and procedures interfere with compliance with the University Policy and Procedures, application of such GSD policies and procedures should be suspended. The provisions in the University Procedures are not reproduced below. For a complete understanding of the procedures concerning alleged sexual or gender-based harassment by GSD students, students should review the University Procedures in conjunction with these supplemental provisions. The Office for Dispute Resolution (ODR) has been charged with implementing the procedures for students pursuant to the University Policy. The ODR operates under the Office of the Provost, working in partnership with the University’s Title IX Officer, School or unit Title IX Coordinators, and other School or unit leadership. Harvard students, faculty, staff, other Harvard appointees, or third parties who believe they are directly affected by the conduct of a Harvard student (collectively, “initiating parties”) may: request information or advice, including whether certain conduct may violate the University Policy; seek informal resolution; or file a formal complaint. Initiating parties are encouraged to bring their concerns to the relevant School or unit Title IX Coordinator, the Title IX Officer, or staff in ODR, but may, if they choose, contact another School or University officer, who will refer the matter as appropriate. As set forth below, interim measures designed to support and protect the initiating party or the University community may be considered or implemented at any time, including during a request for information or advice, informal resolution, or a formal complaint proceeding. Consistent with GSD policy, interim measures might include, among others: restrictions on contact; course-schedule or work-schedule alteration; changes in housing; leaves of absence; or increased monitoring of certain areas of the campus. These interim measures are subject to review and revision throughout the processes described below, and the initiating party can discuss them with the GSD’s Title IX coordinator or the ODR at any time. When the allegations, if true, might constitute criminal conduct, the party against whom they are brought is hereby advised to seek legal counsel before making any written or oral statements. Those facing allegations may wish to obtain legal advice about how this process could affect any criminal case in which they are or may become involved. Informal Review An informal complaint may be made either orally or in writing. It operates as a request to the Title IX coordinator, the Title IX officer, or the Director of ODR to initiate efforts to aid the parties in finding a mutually acceptable resolution. The individual should identify the alleged harasser (if known) and describe the allegations with specificity. The Title IX coordinator, the Title IX officer, or the Director of ODR in consultation with the Title IX Officer will assess the severity of the alleged harassment and the potential risk of a hostile environment for others in the community to determine whether informal resolution may be appropriate. The Title IX coordinator or Title IX officer will also consider whether to put in place any interim measures designed to support the complainant (the person making the complaint) and/or the University community. Upon determining that informal resolution is appropriate, the Director of ODR will assign an investigator who, in collaboration with the Title IX coordinator or the Title IX Officer or designee will consult further with the person initiating the request, inform the person who is the subject of the allegations, and gather relevant information and communicate with the parties and others, as necessary. The Title IX coordinator will explore with the complainant various alternatives for resolving the matter. These may include, among other possibilities, an informal conference with the complainant, the subject of the possible violation, and others, as appropriate. The Title IX coordinator or the Title IX Officer also may put in place any appropriate interim measures to protect the educational and work environment. At any time, students interested in confidential counseling about options and resources can also contact the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (http://osapr.harvard.edu/). A matter will be deemed satisfactorily resolved when both parties expressly agree to an outcome that is also acceptable to the School or unit Title coordinator. At any point prior to such an express agreement, the person who brought the complaint may withdraw the request for informal resolution and initiate a formal complaint under these procedures. Ordinarily, the informal resolution process will be concluded within two to three weeks of the date of the initial report of a possible violation. Please note that the Title IX officer may not approve an informal resolution if it is a sexual assault allegation. Initiation of Formal Complaint If a satisfactory resolution cannot be found through an informal approach, and the complainant wishes to pursue the matter (or would prefer to file a formal complaint alleging a violation of the University Policy), the complainant can file a formal complaint with ODR. The complaint must be in writing and signed and dated by the complainant. The complaint should specify the following: a. The full name and address of the complainant; b. The name and address (if known) of the respondent or respondents (person or persons against whom the charge is made); c. A statement of the facts that support the allegation of a violation of the University Policy; d. The date or dates and location of the alleged acts or practices. Attached to the complaint should be a list of any sources of information (for example, witnesses, correspondence, and the like) that the complainant believes might be relevant to the investigation, but a complaint should not be delayed if such sources of information are unknown or unavailable. The University does not limit the timeframe for filing a complaint, although a complainant is encouraged to file as soon as reasonably possible both for effective gathering of information, and also to allow time for a disciplinary body to review the case in the likelihood that the respondent is graduating or is no longer employed by the University. Referral of Complaints Against Staff, Faculty, Other Harvard Appointees, or Third Parties If the subject of the possible violation is a faculty member, staff member, other Harvard appointee, or third party, ODR promptly will provide the appropriate Title IX coordinator with a copy of the complaint. The School or unit Title IX coordinator, in consultation with other Harvard officers, will determine whether some or all of the allegations will be handled at the School or unit level, or whether ODR will conduct all or part of any investigation. The Formal Complaint Process In the event a complaint is raised against a GSD student, once the complaint is received by the ODR, the Director of ODR will assign the case to an investigator for an initial review. The GSD may assign another individual, the “designee” to work jointly with the investigator. The investigative team will contact the complainant in an attempt to gather a more complete understanding of the allegations, as well as any related conduct that may implicate the University Policy. The investigative team will gather information and determine whether the information, if true, would constitute a violation of the policy such that an investigation is warranted. This decision will be communicated to the complainant, the Director of ODR, the Title IX officer, and the GSD’s Title IX coordinator. Ordinarily, the initial review will be concluded within one week of the date the complaint was received. Following the decision to begin an investigation, the investigative team will notify the respondent in writing of the allegations and will provide a copy of the University Policy and the University Procedures. The respondent will have one week in which to submit a written statement in response to the allegations. If the decision is made to begin an investigation in a case where the complainant is unwilling to participate but the School has assessed the severity of the allegations and the potential risk of a hostile environment for others in the community and has determined to proceed, then for the purposes of the University Procedures, the School Title IX coordinator or a designee will be considered the complainant. Both the complainant and the respondent may bring a personal advisor to any interviews with the Investigative Team. A personal advisor should be an officer of the University who is affiliated with the School or unit in which the advisee is enrolled or employed, but may not be related to anyone involved in the complaint or have any other involvement in the process. In the case of students enrolled in interdisciplinary programs, their official academic advisor also may serve as their personal advisor. Personal advisors may view a redacted version of the complaint or other documents provided to the parties, offer feedback on their advisee’s written statements, and provide general advice. During interviews, personal advisors may not speak for their advisees, although they may ask to suspend the interviews briefly if they feel their advisees would benefit from a short break. At the conclusion of the investigation, the investigative team will evaluate the evidence and make findings of fact, applying a preponderance of the evidence standard, and will determine whether there has been a violation of the policy. The investigative team will draft an investigative report. Both parties have the opportunity to review the report before it is finalized and will have one week in which to give written feedback. The report will then be finalized and sent to the parties and the School of the respondent. If a violation is found, disciplinary action is determined by the School’s administrative board. If the respondent is a GSD student, the case then goes before the GSD’s Review Board, as discussed. The Review Board The Review Board will be comprised of six voting members of the Faculty of Design serving staggered three-year terms, of whom one will be designated chair by the dean. Three members of the Review Board will be elected, one from each academic department. The dean will appoint three at-large members and will also appoint an officer of the administration to serve as an ex-officio (nonvoting) member of the board. All formal complaints and charges will be reviewed by a panel consisting of at least three faculty members normally selected from among the members of the Review Board in advance plus the nonvoting member of the board. Either the respondent or complainant may challenge participation by any member of the Review Board reviewing the case in question, by written petition to the Dean of Students. For good cause, as determined by the Dean of the Faculty of Design, the challenged board member shall be replaced by another board member. Review Board Procedures in Sexual/Gender-Based Harassment Cases Sanctions When a violation of the University Policy is found to have occurred, the GSD’s Review Board panel will consider the imposition of appropriate sanctions. The complainant and the respondent will be notified. Within three days of notification, the complainant and respondent may each submit a written statement to the Review Board. The statements will be provided to the other party as well as other officers of Harvard as the Review Board panel deems appropriate. The statements may not challenge the validity of the findings and conclusions contained in the final report, and also may not introduce facts that could have been presented to the Investigative team or that conflict with any of the findings in the final report. The panel will accept as final and non-reviewable the report’s findings of fact and its conclusions as to whether a violation of the University Policy has occurred. The Review Board’s disciplinary proceedings against the respondent based on conduct addressed by the report will proceed with the understanding that the final report carries the same validity as a determination reached by the Review Board itself. The Review Board panel will determine any recommendations of sanctions and will forward any such recommendations to the dean. The panel’s report will be supported, where appropriate, by a statement of the reasons for the specific sanction and the principles or policies on which the panel relied in recommending the sanction. The panel will provide both parties or their designees with an opportunity to view its written report in the Office of Student Affairs. Either party may submit a response to the dean within three days of the panel’s report becoming available. However, the only opportunity to appeal the findings related to the University Policy is provided by the ODR. Appeals within the GSD, including appeals to the dean, pertain only to the decision of the Review Board in determining discipline. A degree will not be granted to a student who is not in good standing or against whom a disciplinary charge is pending. Sanctions for a student may include, but are not limited to, admonition, probation, separation, requirements to withdraw, dismissal, or expulsion. If minor sanctions (e.g., admonition, probation, or separation) or withdrawal are recommended by the panel, the dean will review the panel’s recommendations, with supporting materials, and take appropriate action. If major sanctions (dismissal, or expulsion) are recommended by the panel, the Student Sanctions Committee will meet to review the recommendation and take final action. At least seven (7) of the nine (9) Committee members must be present. In accordance with the Eleventh Statute of the University, no student shall be dismissed or expelled except by a two thirds (2/3) vote in favor by members of the Committee present and voting thereon. The final action of the Committee shall be communicated to the parties in writing within 15 days. A summary of the case, and the final action taken by Committee will be reported to the full voting faculty at its next meeting. The sanction of ‘dismissal’ does not necessarily preclude a student’s return to the GSD. A dismissed student may petition for readmission and be readmitted only upon a two thirds (2/3) vote in favor by members of the Committee. At least of seven (7) of the nine (9) Committee members must be present. Appeals Either party may appeal the faculty’s decision in writing within three days after the faculty’s decision is communicated. Again, however, the appeal may pertain only to the disciplinary recommendation. In cases where the appeal pertains to a major sanction, and the result of the appeal is a recommendation by the dean for a change in sanction, a new vote of the Student Sanctions Committee is required. At that time, the Committee’s decision is final, Disclosure Disclosure of the final sanctions decision shall be made as appropriate to the respondent and the complainant. Panel Discretion The panel may, in its discretion and for good cause, alter any deadlines in these procedures. Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26