COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Marketing, Major MajorMarketing All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Marketing The Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in marketing from Wichita State’s Barton School of Business combines its AACSB-accredited program with the unmatched opportunities for applied learning and internships found in Kansas’ largest city. You’ll be eligible to compete for some of the state’s largest business scholarships. And you can build a professional resume and make the connections that lead to your dream career. Learn how marketing is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Nashville internship brings student closer to dream job Out of more than 20,000 people, business marketing major Ali Walton was chosen to intern at an entertainment venue in Nashville. As a musician who plays seven instruments, Ali's dream is to work for a record label. The internship in the heart of the music industry brought her one step closer to reaching her goal. Curriculum As a marketing student, you’ll learn the basics of marketing research, consumer behavior and marketing programs. You’ll also choose from more advanced courses in marketing, management, entrepreneurship and communication. The program also offers a real-estate emphasis and minor in personal selling. View the curriculum Careers A marketing degree from Wichita State will give you the knowledge and skills that open doors to successful careers in advertising, public relations, business, management and more. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs General Business Business - General (Minor) Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship (Minor) International Business International Business (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©