Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home People Our Faculty Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Alwyn Cohall Alwyn Cohall atc1_3_Cohall_Alwyn_C_0241.jpg Alwyn Cohall Professor Sociomedical Sciences, Population and Family Health, and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center Office/Address: 215 West 125th Street, First Floor. New York NY 10027 Phone: 646-284-9725 Fax: 646-284-9729 Email: atc1 [at] cumc [dot] columbia [dot] edu Biography Topics Education Mailman Affiliations Columbia Affiliations Other Affiliations Honors & Awards Areas of Expertise Select Urban Health Activities Select Publications Back to Top Biography Dr. Alwyn Cohall is director of the Harlem Health Promotion Center, one of 33 national Prevention Research Centers established by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to build bridges between academia and vulnerable communities. Dr. Cohall's main areas of research interest include adolescent health; reproductive health; violence; access to healthcare, particularly for young men of color; and health communication/health promotion. In addition to his research interests, Dr. Cohall is board-certified in both pediatrics and adolescent medicine and has a private practice in adolescent health. Dr. Cohall serves as the director of Project Stay (Services to Assist Youth), which is a New York State Department of Health funded program that provides confidential health services to young people affected by or infected with HIV/AIDS. He is also a consulting physician with the Young Men's Clinic (YMC), an innovative program that provides primary care services to this underserved and often neglected population. Topics Child and Adolescent Health Community Health HIV/AIDS Incarceration Prevention LGBT Health Maternal and Reproductive Health Urban Health Education MD, 1980, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey BA, 1976, Wesleyan University Mailman Affiliations Director, Harlem Health Promotion Center Columbia Affiliations Director, Project STAY (Services To Assist Youth) Other Affiliations Member, Society for Adolescent Medicine Member, American Academy of Pediatrics Member, American Public Health Association Honors & Awards 2005, American Academy of Pediatrics Founders Award for Community Leadership in Adolescent Health 2005, HIV Leadership Award, TheBody.com 2003, New York Civil Liberties Union 2001, New York City Department of Health/Mailman School of Public Health Achievement Award 1989, American Medical Association Award for Distinguished Service on behalf of America's Youth Areas of Expertise Adolescent Health, School-Based Clinics, HIV/AIDS, Sexually Transmitted Infections, Incarceration and Recidivism, Lesbian / Gay / Bisexual / Transgender Health, Sexuality, Family Planning, Reproductive Health, Sex Education and Safe Sex, Urban Health Select Urban Health Activities Project STAY: 1.Provision of community health education, venue-based STI/HIV screening for high-risk youth, with a particular focus on youth in the justice system, and LGBT youth 2. Provision of comprehensive medical and psychosocial services to HIV-infected youth 3.Provision of PEP and PrEP to high-risk youth 4. Developing innovative media communication to enhance health promotion for high-risk youth Select Publications 15. Cohall A*, Cohall RM, Ellis JA, Vaughan R, Northridge ME, Watkins-Bryant G, Butcher J. More than heights and weights: What parents of Harlem adolescents want from health care providers. Journal of Adolescent Health. 2004;34(3). 20. Cohall A*, Cohall R, Dye B, Vaughn R. Overheard in the halls: What adolescents are saying and what teachers are hearing about health. Journal of School Health. 2007;77(7):344-350 16. Cohall A*, Cohall R, Dye B, Dini S, Vaughan R. Parents of urban adolescents in Harlem, New York and the internet: A cross-sectional survey on preferred resources for health information. Journal of Medical Internet Research. 2004;6(4):1-8. 15. Cohall A*, Cohall RM, Ellis JA, Vaughan R, Northridge ME, Watkins-Bryant G, Butcher J. More than heights and weights: What parents of Harlem adolescents want from health care providers. Journal of Adolescent Health. 2004;34(3). 5. Hunter J, Cohall A, Mallon G, Moyer MB, Riddel JP. Health Care Delivery and Public Health Related to LGBT Youth and Young Adults In: Handbook of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Public Health. A Practitioner's Guide to Health. Michael Shankle (editor).Haworth Press; New York, NY: 2006. 6. Cohall A*, Nshom M, Nye A. One chip at a time: Youth development and technology. In: Adolescent Medicine State of the Art Reviews, E-Health. 2007;18 (2): 415-424 14. Armstrong, B., Cohall, A.T., and Cohall R.M. The Health of Young Men of Color. Social Work Practice with Vulnerable and Resilient Populations. Alex Gitterman (Ed). 3rd Edition. (2013). New York: Columbia University Press. (In Press). 12. Armstrong B, Cohall A. Health Promotion with Adolescent and Young Adult Males: An Empowerment Approach. In: Adolescent Medicine State of the Art Reviews, Adolescent Health Promotion. 2011:544-580 30. Cohall AT, Nye A, Moon-Howard J, Kukafka R, Dye B, Vaughan RD, Northridge M. Computer Use, Internet Access, and Online Searching for Health Information among Harlem Adults. American Journal of Health Promotion. Am J Health Promot. 2011 May-Jun;25(5):325-33 33. Neu N, Nelson J, Ranson E, Whittier S, Shaw A, Cohall A. Urine and Extragenital Gonococcal and Chlamydia Infections in HIV Positive Young Men Who Have Sex with Men (YMSM): Enhanced Detection of Rectal Chlamydia when Screening with Nucleic Acid Amplified Tests versus Cultures. Journal of Mens Health. 2012;9:89-93 Back to Top Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers