Close Alert Message Alert Carolina! Normal The University is currently operating under normal conditionsLast updated at 6:00pmFriday, May 27th, 2022Skip to Main Content Top Level Navigation Discover Navigate Navigate About the UniversityDisplay Sub Menu for About the University About the University Alumni By the numbers Branding and Identity GuidelinesOpens in new site Carolina NextOpens in new site For the MediaOpens in new site Frequently Asked Questions History and Traditions Leadership Mission & Values Support the University UNC Social Media UNC SystemOpens in new site News and UpdatesDisplay Sub Menu for News and Updates News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Working at CarolinaOpens in new site Campaign for CarolinaOpens in new site AcademicsDisplay Sub Menu for Academics Academics Academic Calendar and Registrar Academic Enhancements Continuing Education Opportunities Academic Departments Friday Center for Continuing Education Libraries Online and Distance EducationOpens in new site Programs and Curricula Summer School Admissions and Aid SchoolsDisplay Sub Menu for Schools Schools College of Arts & Sciences Adams School of Dentistry Education Eshelman School of Pharmacy Gillings School of Global Public Health Government Graduate School Information & Library Science Law Kenan-Flagler Business School Hussman School of Journalism and Media Medicine Nursing Social Work Come Visit Us Diversity and Inclusion Research Innovation and Economic Development Arts and Culture GlobalOpens in new site Life at CarolinaDisplay Sub Menu for Life at Carolina Life at Carolina About the Town Campus Recreation Carolina Housing Carolina UnionOpens in new site Community and Public Service Health & Wellness AthleticsDisplay Sub Menu for Athletics Athletics GoHeels.comOpens in new site Campus RecreationOpens in new site IntramuralsOpens in new site Sports ClubsOpens in new site UNC HealthOpens in new site Search The University of North Carolina at Chapel HillHide Main Navigation Menu Featured Diamond Heels claim ACC title Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title About the University Overview By the Numbers Frequently Asked Questions History and Traditions Leadership By the Numbers Mission & Values Support the University Working at Carolina Privacy Statement Accessibility Contact Us Search PeopleOpens in new window PlacesOpens in new window Search UNC.edu By the numbers Quick facts 19,742undergraduate students 11,796graduate and professional students 1stand only public university in the United States to award degrees in the 18th century 65doctoral degree programs and seven professional degree programs 95bachelor's degree programs 104master's degree programs 349,000+living alumni in 50 states and D.C. and 153 countries 4,085faculty members 9,023staff members The Carolina experience It's always a great day to be a Tar Heel “It’s a great day to be a Tar Heel” is a phrase you’ll often hear around Carolina, and for a good reason. Every day, Tar Heels create a positive impact on the world by improving their communities and inspiring change through their talents. They’re artists, scientists, humanitarians, researchers and innovators doing extraordinary things. Meet some of our students and alumni to find out why every day really is a great day to be a Tar Heel. Faculty and staff excellence Established in 1980 by the late C. Knox Massey ’25 of Durham, the C. Knox Massey Distinguished Service Award recognizes “unusual, meritorious or superior contributions” by University employees. Learn more about the faculty and staff who make Carolina so special. Timeless Traditions The nation's first public university, UNC-Chapel Hill is home to centuries-old traditions and experiences that connect generations of Tar Heels. Watch the Bell Tower lighting the night before the first day of class, go for a stroll on Franklin Street and cheer on the Tar Heels in Kenan Stadium. Learn more about the places and experiences that make the Tar Heel experience so special. Two Nobel Laureates Aziz Sancar, co-recipient of the 2015 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, and Dr. Oliver Smithies (1925-2017), co-recipient of the 2007 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. 53,775 applicants for the Class of 2025 This year’s incoming class is comprised of more than 4,490 students. More than 790 of these students will be the first in their families to attend college. Meet our newest Tar Heels Student achievement Display Previous Slide of Statistics Carousel Display Next Slide of Statistics Carousel 54 Rhodes Scholars since the program began in 1902 40 Luce Scholars for internship in Asia 51 Goldwater Scholars, including 33 since 2000 514+ Fulbright Student Program Awards for global research and study since 1949 43% of Carolina undergraduates studied in other countries before graduation (prior to COVID-19 restrictions) 15 varsity athletic teams posted perfect 1000 scores in the NCAA’s Academic Progress Rates for 2020-2021 4th in the annual Learfield IMG College Directors’ Cup in 2020-2021 — the highest finish of any ACC school Accessibility Carolina is committed to providing access to a high–quality, affordable education to students from all backgrounds. For over a decade, The Carolina Covenant has offered lower-income students who earn admission the opportunity to graduate debt-free. The University meets all the documented need of undergraduates who apply for financial aid on time. Carolina is also one of the 30 founding members of the American Talent Initiative, which aims to attract, enroll and graduate 50,000 additional lower-income students at the 334 colleges and universities with the highest graduation rates by 2025. Learn more about the Carolina Covenant Diversity At Carolina, diversity and inclusion are about building understanding across differences, creating conditions to ensure the equitable educational and social benefits of diversity and cultivating an inclusive and supportive environment for all Tar Heels. The University received the 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2021 Higher Education Excellence in Diversity Award from INSIGHT Into Diversity. We have also created 41 need-based scholarships named for “Noteworthy Firsts” in our community from various backgrounds and “Bridge Builders,” those whose work, advocacy and personal example helped create a more diverse Carolina. Visit the University Office for Diversity and Inclusion Outreach and Service Students, faculty and staff dedicate thousands of hours each year to helping our communities by performing service projects and participating in outreach programs. More than 250 students graduated as Buckley Public Service Scholars in 2021, logging more than 132,750 hours of public service. Carolina also has nearly 60 advisers of the Carolina College Advising Corps serving 74 North Carolina high schools in the 2020-2021 academic year to support North Carolinians and help students find colleges where they will thrive. Learn more about Carolina’s service to our state Behind the numbers Learn more about UNC Research Racing toward innovation Convergent science is characterized by cross-disciplinary research teams created to tackle big problems and speed the application of new breakthroughs to commercialization. At Carolina, the Institute for Convergent Science is at the forefront of this pioneering framework. Disassembling evolution’s engine When a research project centered on evolution within spadefoot toads fell through, Emily Harmon shifted her focus to microscopic swimmers called rotifers. The biology Ph.D. student is studying an animal’s ability to adapt in one generation, which could inform conservation efforts in the face of climate change. A pandemic game changer Clinical trials led by Drs. William Fischer and Tim Sheahan at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill showed that a new pill treatment eliminates the COVID-19 virus in patients. Learn more about UNC Research INNOVATION AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Carolina is a place where innovators and entrepreneurs make a human, social and economic impact. We make purposeful transformations in the world by putting important ideas to use for the public good. Learn more 6thmost innovative university in the world (Reuters) 814total Carolina-affiliated startups launched 446Carolina-affiliated startups headquartered in North Carolina $17.8 billionin total funding raised by Carolina startups $14.4 billionin annual revenue earned by UNC-Chapel Hill startups (2020-21) 12,000+people employed by UNC-Chapel Hill startups across 29 North Carolina counties (2020-21) Learn more about UNC-Chapel Hill History and traditions Mission and values Discover Carolina News and updates Accessibility Alert Carolina Alumni Connect Carolina Campus Map Contact Us Careers Departments A – Z Ethics and Integrity For the Media Libraries People Directory Privacy Statement UNC Student Stores The Well Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest © 2022 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share LinkedIn E-mail