Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Business Graduate Programs Menu Business Home MBA Full-Time MBA EMBA Dallas Online MBA Specialized Master's Degrees Master of Accountancy & Master of Tax Master of Information Systems Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Economics Army-Baylor Programs Admissions Admissions Contact About Army-Baylor Program Overview Program Philosophy Competency Based Education Student Outcomes Army-Baylor Program History Residency Program Residency Sites Residency Manual Preceptor Training Curriculum MHA Curriculum MHA/MBA Curriculum ECL MHA Curriculum ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum Faculty Directory Teresa S. Hinnerichs Michael Whiddon Allen Solenberg Lorena A. Bailey Bruce W. Barnes III Kimberly Decker Mike Frankel Austin Haag Mark Nikont Dan M. Wood Jose Mauricio Jimenez Garrett W. Larson Steve Schwab A. David Mangelsdorff Karin Waugh Zucker Staff Directory Rene L. Pryor Jennifer F. Russell Faculty Awards and Research Previous Recipients Faculty Research Student Awards Previous Recipients Army-Baylor News Army-Baylor Alumni Army-Baylor Alumni Network Join the Army-Baylor Alumni Network Update your Army-Baylor Alumni Network Contact Information Give to the Army Baylor Alumni Network Army-Baylor Events Doctoral Programs Entrepreneurship PhD Information Systems PhD Health Services Research PhD Admissions Baylor>Business Graduate Programs>Specialized Master's Degrees Specialized Master's Degrees Master of Science in Business Analytics (MSBA) The Master of Science in Business Analytics (MSBA) degree is a STEM-designated program, cross-disciplinary degree, encompassing multiple fields of study within the Business School and the Department of Statistical Science in the College of Arts and Sciences. Master of Information Systems (MSIS) The Master of Information Systems program is a STEM-designated program that aims to equip you with the technical and management knowledge to become a leader in the field of information systems management and technology. Master of Accountancy (MAcc) and Master of Taxation (MTax) Baylor's accounting and tax programs are accredited, nationally-recognized programs whose students consistently score among the top in the nation on the CPA exam. Whether you are looking to be an analyst, an auditor, or even a consultant, getting a Baylor MAcc or MTax will prepare you for success in your field. Master of Science in Economics (MSEco) Our Master of Science in Economics is designed for those who are aspiring to work in consulting firms, forecasting groups, financial institutions, NGOs, and public agencies, or those who are preparing for doctoral training in economics, finance, or other related disciplines. Army-Baylor MHA and MHA/MBA Programs The Army-Baylor Graduate Program in Health and Business Administration offers CAHME, AACSB, and AUPHA recognized MHA and joint MHA/MBA options for officers (active duty and reservists) from the Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, and civilian personnel from the Department of the Army and the Department of Veterans Affairs. Specialized Master's Degrees Master of Accountancy & Master of Tax Master of Information Systems Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Economics General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Hankamer School of Business About the Business School Directory Events News Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Business Home MBA Full-Time MBA EMBA Dallas Online MBA Specialized Master's Degrees Master of Accountancy & Master of Tax Master of Information Systems Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Economics Army-Baylor Programs Admissions Admissions Contact About Army-Baylor Program Overview Program Philosophy Competency Based Education Student Outcomes Army-Baylor Program History Residency Program Residency Sites Residency Manual Preceptor Training Curriculum MHA Curriculum MHA/MBA Curriculum ECL MHA Curriculum ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum Faculty Directory Teresa S. Hinnerichs Michael Whiddon Allen Solenberg Lorena A. Bailey Bruce W. Barnes III Kimberly Decker Mike Frankel Austin Haag Mark Nikont Dan M. Wood Jose Mauricio Jimenez Garrett W. Larson Steve Schwab A. David Mangelsdorff Karin Waugh Zucker Staff Directory Rene L. Pryor Jennifer F. Russell Faculty Awards and Research Previous Recipients Faculty Research Student Awards Previous Recipients Army-Baylor News Army-Baylor Alumni Army-Baylor Alumni Network Join the Army-Baylor Alumni Network Update your Army-Baylor Alumni Network Contact Information Give to the Army Baylor Alumni Network Army-Baylor Events Doctoral Programs Entrepreneurship PhD Information Systems PhD Health Services Research PhD Admissions