Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager For Faculty and Staff For Alumni For Students For Potential Students Biomed A-Z People Directory Department of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Show/Hide Home About Us Anatomical Gift Program EEB Internal Intranet Facilities Herbarium Plant Environmental Center People Graduate Education Undergraduate Education News The Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology at Brown University shares a common interest in how organisms function, how they interact with their environments and how the mechanisms that sustain these processes have evolved over time. Our work is directed toward understanding biological systems at the gene, individual, population, and community levels of organization. Major conceptual areas pursued by our department include animal locomotion and functional morphology, ecology of marine and terrestrial communities, conservation biology and environmental science, and population and evolutionary genomics. We study a wide variety of organisms - both living and extinct - spanning the tree of life, including microbes, plants and algae, marine invertebrates, terrestrial arthropods, reptiles, birds, and mammals, including humans. Learn more about us Meet our faculty News Bianca Brown recently featured in the Brown Alumni Magazine. Wed Jun 30 Congratulations to recent EEOB graduate, Bianca Brown, who was recently named as one of seven "exceptional alumni." Click here to read the full article in the Brown Alumni Magazine. Read More EEB grad, Emily Hollenbeck working tirelessly to preserve the ecosystems she loves Wed May 12 Emily Hollenbeck, the new president of Costa Rica’s Monteverde Conservation League and a former IBES graduate affiliate, is working tirelessly to preserve the ecosystems she loves. Read full article here. Read More IBES Welcomes Jon Witman as an IBES Affiliate Fellow Mon Mar 15 The Institute at Brown for Environment and Society is excited to welcome Professor of Biology Jon Witman as an IBES Faculty Affiliate. Read full story here. Read More Gators and Guineafowl May Help Us Understand How Dinosaurs Moved Tue Feb 23 "We've uncovered surprising new information that will improve reconstructions of locomotion in extinct animals," said lead study author Armita Manafzadeh, EEB graduate student. Read full article here. Read More Bianca Brown Fri Jan 15 Every day, scientists learn more about the gut microbiome, the diverse group of bacteria that colonizes the digestive tract and helps maintain an organism’s overall health. Click here to read story. Read More Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown Biology and Medicine Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty and Staff Potential Students Alumni The Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology The Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology Brown University Box G-W 80 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2100 Fax: 401-863-2166 Twitter Twitter Giving to Brown Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, RI 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn SnapChat