Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Alumni and Giving Class Notes Class Notes Send us news on babies, weddings, promotions, awards, moves, and anything newsworthy. We want to celebrate you and keep you up to date on all your classmates. Deadline for the Fall issue of alumni magazine occurs July 1. SUBMIT A CLASS NOTE 2020 Class Notes 1990 The Rev. Canon Sharon A. Alexander '90 is the new Canon to the Ordinary (chief operating officer) in the Episcopal Diocese of West Tennessee. Prior to being ordained, she was a partner in the Dallas office of Jones Day. 2007 Chris Kang '07 was promoted to Partner at Haynes and Boone. Chris is a member of the Executive Compensation Practice Group in their Dallas office. 2011 Brad Holdbrook '11 was promoted to Partner at Haynes and Boone. Brad is a member of the Real Estate Practice Group in their Dallas office. Phil Kim '11 was promoted to Partner at Haynes and Boone. Phil is a member of the Healthcare Practice Group in their Dallas office. 2021 Class Notes 1975 Clay G. Small,'75 has released his second novel, The Forger's Forgery (pub. 4/20/21) Clay takes the reader into Amsterdam, Texas and Kansas. The fictional story is interwoven with facts on the infamous Dutch art forger, Han van Meegeren. Readers will learn what motivates an art forger (hint: it's more than just money). Interestingly, as the price for fine art has escalated, so have art forgeries. Clay is currently a professor at Cox School of Business at SMU, where he teaches legal and ethical environment of business. He is also an annual visiting professor at ESADE in Barcelona and Vrije University in Amsterdam. Learn more at ClaySmall.com Alumni and Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours Class Reunions Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Alumni Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Show your Support! Give now. Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram