Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of English Undergraduate Graduate People Internships News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Visit us in Patterson Hall Located at the corner of Patterson and Walker Learn from our Award-Winning Faculty Dr. Liz Lane provides a hands-on learning experience in ENGL 3601 Meet Renowned Authors and Scholars at Departmental Events Become an English Major Learn about how a degree in English can help you meet your scholarly and career goals. PreviousNext Take Action Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Nationally Ranked # 122 U.S. News and World Report English - Graduate View All Rankings Home Department of English Department of English Choose English and Write Your Future! The English Department allows you to write a degree program that will help you reach your career goals as you choose one of our six undergraduate concentrations: African American Literature, Creative Writing, TESOL, Applied Linguistics, Literature, and Professional Writing. In addition to our 300 undergraduate students, we have over 100 graduate students pursuing Masters' Degrees, MFAs in Creative Writing, Graduate Certificates in TESOL, African American Literature, Writing Studies, and PhDs. English graduates succeed as lawyers, teachers, web designers, writers, administrators, journalists, and business professionals. With online degree programs and a variety of classes, the English major is flexible. English also works great as a second major or minor. Questions? Visit Our FAQ Page! FAQ Page > Ready to Write Your Own Future? Apply Now! > Department of English News Huge congratulations to our English Advisor, Bridget Wells, for winning the 2022 Dean's Outstanding Employee Award! Congratulations to all of our 2021-22 awards winners! To see a full list, click here. Congratulations to WRTC student Edel Pace, for winning the 2022 Instructional Design & Learning Special Interest Group Student Outreach Article Competition! Edel's article "Becoming an Instructional Designer" will be published in Intercom's May/June 2022 issue. Applied Linguistics professor Dr. Lyn Wright was featured on Action News 5, click here to view the video. She was also featured in a recent article for the Memphis Flyer. Huge congratulations to Creative Writing professor Marcus Wicker for being awarded a Creative Writing Fellowship from the National Endowment for the Arts! Read more about this accomplishment in The Commercial Appeal, The National Endowment for the Arts, and the University of Memphis Press Room! Our English as a Second Language Masters Program has been featured on the Best Value Schools' list, "Best 20 Online Masters English Programs in 2021" as Number 8! Congratulations to all of our ESL faculty, check out the full list here. Department of English Upcoming Events Summer 2022 Classes Begin May 31st! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/12/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.