Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts UC Answers: Why is mentorship key to college success? UC Blue Ash College has created a mentorship program specifically for first-year CPS students By John Bach Email JohnEmail John 513-556-2019 January 25, 2021 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like Alice Hicks, Ed.D, is a success coach for the CPS Success Coaching program at UCBA, and she is passionate about helping Cincinnati Public Schools students, especially first-generation college students, reach their goals. Why do you think mentorship is so important? I find that it is most important to recent high school graduates, as many of them may be first-generation college students whose parents did not go to college. In a lot of cases, some of these students are the first in their families to go to college. Many students do not know the lingo of college, which is a different world than what they know. Having a mentor to whom students can connect who has the skills and knowledge to help them navigate their new experience and provide support to them is pivotal to student success. What do you do as a success coach at UCBA to help students toward success? As a success coach, my role is to serve as mentor to first-year students who are recent graduates of Cincinnati Public Schools. My role is to help students understand the lingo, the processes, the systems and the culture to connect them with the proper resources, navigate financial aid and provide them with the tools they need to succeed during their first year of college. Why did you get involved? Being a former first-generation college student myself, I returned to UC to follow my passion of working with students who remind me of an earlier version of myself. They have the ability to succeed but need someone to steer them in the right direction and help keep them on task. What is most rewarding about helping students achieve their goals? I love being able to execute my knowledge to help students troubleshoot and solve their problems and provide them with knowledge so that they can make informed decisions about their academics. For me it is about empowering students to think critically about the challenges they face so they can climb the ladder of success confidently. Can you share a student's story that illustrates success? One success story that immediately comes to my mind is a student who at first was resistant to success coaching. They felt that they could survive the first year of college on their own. The student was adamant that instead of participating in success coaching, it made more sense for them to use that precious time studying and preparing for their classes. I outlined in an email to the student the benefits of participating in the Success Coaching Program and encouraged the student to begin with attending one workshop. The student came to the first workshop and ended up becoming a model participant. The student only missed one session due to attending a family funeral. The student’s sibling was also involved in success coaching. They served as swim buddies to each other. They took classes together, studied together and even attended their 1:1 monthly meeting(s) together. They both made the honor roll last fall and continue to excel. They continue to reach out to me from time to time when they need help walking through processes. What would you say to students who may be hesitant to enroll at UC because they fear they may not be successful academically? I would tell them about the resources that are available to students to promote their academic success such as the "help labs" including the study skills labs, math and accounting labs, English labs and the science labs. I would tell them about the positive, patient and persistent success coaches who are assigned to work with them and are committed to promoting their academic and personal success. I would tell them about the caring, committed and competent faculty who teach our classes who are also committed to their academic success. For students who are afraid to enroll at UC because they are fearful of failing, I would encourage them to identify and choose a team of what we call "swim buddies" to aid in their success. Swim buddies are friends, family and coworkers who they can rely on to form a "current" around them to ensure that they are heading in the right direction. I would encourage students to get connected within the university and join a student organization because research shows that students who get involved in co-curricular activities are more likely to succeed. Featured image at top shows Alice Hicks from UC Blue Ash, who is a CPS Success Coach. Photo/Lisa Ventre/UC Creative + Brand Push progress forward From our unique Bearcat Promise, a tech- and human-supported guide that helps students co-design their ideal future to learning communities and dedicated advisors, you’ll find all the support you need at UC to launch forward in any direction. Learn more about the CPS Success Coaching program at UCBA. Tags Answers Impact Student Experience Blue Ash College College bound Next Lives Here Related Stories Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Ohio recognizes UC's efforts to welcome veterans May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati this week was among the first universities to be recognized by Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine for its efforts to support students with military backgrounds. Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top