Skip to main content Latest COVID information W crest logo for the university Menu menu close Search People and Pages search closeOpen search This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Main Menu Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Athletics About UW Utility Menu MyUW open dropdown menu close dropdown menu MyUW home Email/calendar Canvas Box Google Apps Libraries Map News Visit Apply Jobs Give Student Life Badgers work hard and play hard. They fiercely support each other, through finals week or a pandemic, with countless opportunities to unwind and recharge. Our student body is what makes UW–Madison special; come see for yourself. Student Affairs Where you’ll make friends and memories to last a lifetime Clubs and student organizations You’re just a few clicks away from finding community among campus’s nearly 1,000 clubs and organizations. Browse clubs and student organizations Campus housing and dining Our residence halls offer a range of personality in two distinct neighborhoods: Lakeshore for the nature lover and Southeast for the city soul. Explore housing and dining options on campus Multicultural Student Center We welcome, value, and support all members of our UW community. The Center offers cultural programming, internships, student organization support, and more. Learn about the Multicultural Student Center Badgers are always on the move At UW–Madison, there’s an activity for everyone: from NCAA events and club sports to pickup games at the Nick and Quidditch on the quad. Discover athletics at UW We’re an arts destination drawing national attention You can feel the creativity in the air. Within a few campus blocks lie the largest museum collection in the Big Ten, a 650-seat concert hall, and several performance spaces serving up student productions and world-famous acts. Chazen Museum of Art Hamel Music Center The Cinematheque University Theatre The Wisconsin Union Testimonial & Facts I wanted to go to a big school with plenty of offerings and clubs to establish Madison as my community. Madison has not fallen short. The people I have met in those organizations have made Madison feel like home. Sofia Vandersluis, School of Education student 260+Study abroad programs 850+Student organizations 21Residence halls 23NCAA programs Find your community UW–Madison welcomes students from all over the world and from every background. On a large campus, it’s essential to build community — we’re here to help connect you. Fraternity and Sorority Life Gender and Sexuality Campus Center International Student Services Multicultural Student Center University Veteran Services Wisconsin Experience Stay healthy and safe Ensuring your health and safety as a student is the number one priority of the university, along with providing an accessible experience for all campus members. Explore these critical campus resources. Campus COVID-19 response Campus safety resources McBurney Disability Resource Center Recreation & Wellbeing University Health Services Madison, WI: The ultimate college town This is where big-city opportunities meet small-town conveniences. Where vibrant streetscapes lead to lakeside retreats. Where a Big Ten college and capital city blend together, creating an atmosphere unlike anywhere else. Welcome to Madison. Tour campus virtually Explore Madison in every season Are you searching for something specific? This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Footer links Popular Academic calendar Campus map Directory search Facts and figures Jobs Majors and certificates Tuition and fees Resources Alumni Business and industry Faculty and staff International Parents Researchers Students Quick links Accessibility Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Governance Policies Safety Support UW Title IX Footer Crest envelope Contact us facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram ©2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System | Privacy notice | Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: web@umark.wisc.edu