UH I-Corps Site - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH I-Corps Site Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH I-Corps Site UH Home Provost UH I-Corps Site UH I-Corps Site Workshops and Events Academic LLC Classes Innovation and Entrepreneurship Resources at UH Advisory Board National I-Corps Award Recipients Previous Award Recipients Past and Current E-Teams Contact Us The UH I-Corps site is an institutional collaboration between the Office of the Provost, the Division of Research, the Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship, and RED Labs. For questions, please contact us via the contact form. UH I-Corps Site Join the Innovation Corps at the University of Houston What is the UH I-Corps SITE? The UH I-Corps SITE is a National Science Foundation (NSF) funded initiative designed to promote innovation and entrepreneurship amongst students and faculty at the University of Houston while helping to build a robust innovation ecosystem that works collaboratively with external innovators, mentors and entrepreneurs. The UH I-Corps SITE program seeks applications from students (both undergraduate and graduate) and faculty members who would like to explore the possible commercial applications of an idea, concept or technology they have developed or would like to develop. The UH I-CORPS SITE program provides seed funding to help support these efforts. The UH I-CORPS SITE program is designed to support the very early stages of product and business development based upon an approach known as the Lean Start-Up Model incorporating the Lean Launch Curriculum and Disciplined Entrepreneurship methodology. This approach to innovation and entrepreneurship involves developing a business model for an idea or technology that is based on the concept of “customer discovery” as a way of testing whether or not the business model has merit. It also has the advantage of identifying potentially novel commercial applications of an idea or technology based on customer feedback. THE UH I-CORPS SITE provides experiential opportunities to learn more about how to launch a startup, and offers several classes with the Lean Launch Curriculum. Find out more about the I-Corps experiential opportunities and requirements and the academic classes with Lean Launch Curriculum. Noteworthy Events FemTech (+) Innovation Challenge Battle of the Classes Additional Information What is the Lean Launch Curriculum? What is Disciplined Entrepreneurship? NSF I-Corps Program Communication Join Slack Contact Us University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies