Global Events Global Collaboration Maps & Data Calendar About us Top Connecting UCLA and the World Engagement Global Forums Building relationships with parents, students and friends. Connecting with 1400+ overseas alumni yearly. Learn More 1400+ Alumni & Friends 20 Cities 18 Countries/Regions November 15-19, 2021 International Education Week The IEW celebrates international education and exchange at UCLA in a week-long series events across campus that highlight international education resources, programs and initiatives on campus and around the world. The IEW celebrates international education and exchange at UCLA in a week-long series events across campus that highlight international education resources, programs and initiatives on campus and around the world. Learn More Global Standing Partnerships Global Collaboration UCLA’s global mission focuses on developing new knowledge and understanding of a world that is increasingly diverse and interconnected, preparing our students for this complex world, and fulfilling our public mission across borders. Learn More 193 International Partnerships 45 Countries/Regions Global Ambassadors Meet some of our alumni making a difference in the world. Annalisa BurgosBA, 2000 - Communication Studies, English John Arboleda BA, 1996 - Latin American Studies Venu KotamrajuBA, 1995 - Mechanical Engineering, Economics MBA, 2000 - Business Administration Derek HuBA, 1992 - English Education & Research International Institute The Institute educates students about the world and serves as a campus and community resource. Learn More Events Academics Centers Video UCLA by the Numbers Watch a 3-minute video about UCLA. Please upgrade to a browser that supports HTML5 video or install Flash.video-lw-mun.jpg Download Global Events Currently there is no scheduled global events on the calendar. Please visit this page for future updates. Spotlight News UC Chancellors' letter to State Department The letter addresses the urgent need for guidance on supporting the continued presence of international students, scholars and researchers at U.S. institutions of higher education. Chinese parents send heartfelt support to UCLA health care workers Two groups of generous Chinese parents separately organized support for UCLA health care workers working on the frontlines of COVID-19. See Full Calendar Interactive Maps & Data This site contains interactive maps and country data pertaining to UCLA's international students, visitors, partnerships, projects/programs and study abroad. Explore Interactive Maps Go to Maps View Country Data Select Country Afghanistan Albania Algeria Andorra Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Congo Congo, Democratic Republic Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Ethiopia Finland France French Polynesia Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guam Guatemala Guinea Guinea - Bissau Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Korea (South) Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian National Authority Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Lucia Samoa Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Sierra Leone Singapore Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka St Kitts and Nevis Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Trinidad & Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Venezuela Viet Nam Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Global Offices Connecting with local alumni, students, parents, friends, and partners in the region. UCLA Europe Office more... UCLA Asia Office UCLA Japan Center Annual Presidents' Meeting 2019 Universities in an Age of Global Migrations Universities in an Age of Global Migrations, June 23-25, 2019 “Universities in an Age of Global Migrations” is the theme of the 23rd Annual Presidents' Meeting hosted by UCLA. APRU presidents will deliberate with experts on migration, other leaders from academia and international public policy, on ways research universities should respond to these trends. Learn More As the only network of leading universities linking the Americas, Asia and Australasia, the Association of Pacific Rim Universities (APRU) is the Voice of Knowledge and Innovation for the Asia-Pacific region. We bring together thought leaders, researchers, and policy makers to exchange ideas and collaborate on effective solutions to the challenges of the 21st century. UCLA UCLA International Institute UCLA Dashew Center UCLA Study Abroad UCLA Fulbright UCLA International Visitors Bureau UCLA International Admissions: Undergraduate Graduate Funding Opportunities: Study Abroad Languages/Area Studies International Research UCLA Global 11248 Bunche Hall Los Angeles, CA 90095-1487 Campus Mail Code: 148703 Tel: (310) 825-4811 Fax: (310) 206-3555 Email: info-intl@international.ucla.edu