Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Counseling Faculty and Research Degree Programs Clinical Mental Health (Post-Master's Certificate) College and Career Counseling (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate) Disability Studies (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate) Disability Support Services (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate) School Counseling (Post-Master's Certificate) Addiction Counseling (MS) Clinical Mental Health Counseling (MS) Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling (MS) Marriage, Couple, and Family Counseling (MS) School Counseling (MS) Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling (MS) Counselor Education and Supervision (PhD) Mission Statement Current Students Practicum & InternshipLinks to Counseling ResourcesGeneral Campus ContactsStudent Wellbeing and Evaluation Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Post-Bac Disability Support Services Certificate Post-Baccalaureate Certificate in Disability Support Services Concentration Coordinator Steven L. West, Ph.D., CRC Ball Hall 100 901.678.4472 slwest@memphis.edu Become a Disability Support Services Professional Disability Support Services (DSS) professionals play a vital role in higher education by assisting students with disabilities in their pursuit of college degrees and by insuring colleges and universities meet their legal requirements of serving such students. The DSS profession is one of the most rapidly growing jobs in the U.S. today, and colleges and universities are increasingly seeking specially trained individuals to serve in this dynamic and growing area. Program objectives Our Disability Support Services program is designed to help you gain employment and advance your career in disability supports in higher education. Your courses combine detailed primary information and theory with hands-on practical skills to give you an applied, well-rounded educational experience. With your degree and proper experience, you could qualify to work in a wide variety of settings, including disability services, advising centers, EEOC offices, and student affairs offices in colleges and universities. Why choose the University of Memphis? The DSS Post-Baccalaureate program at the University of Memphis provides the training you need for the career you want - on your terms and on your schedule. You can begin the program in any semester - Fall, Spring, or Summer. Our asynchronous program means that you never have to be at your computer at a designated time. You can choose to study at 2p.m., 2 a.m., or anytime in between! Since your computer is your classroom, you can complete all coursework at home, in the office, or on the road. It's learning from anywhere. Our degree program is career-focused, without elective courses that you don't need or want. Complete your Certificate in as few as 9 months! Certificate Requirements The Post-baccalaureate Certificate in Disability Support Services requires successful completion of 12-hours of study. Three courses, Counseling 7001, 7001, and 7002 are required. Students may select one of three courses, Counseling 7003, Higher and Adult Education 7442, or Higher and Adult Education 7444 for their last class. Required: COUN 7000 Students with Disabilities in Postsecondary Education (3 hours) COUN 7001 Disability Support Services COUN 7002 Universal Design, Assistive Technology, and Accommodations in Higher Education (3 hours) Electives (choose one): COUN 7003 Legal Issues in Disability Support Services HIAD 7442 College Student Development HIAD 7444 Multiculturalism on the College Campus Application Requirements and Procedures Admission Requirements: Applicants must hold a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university. Application Deadlines: In addition to all UofM Graduate School deadlines, the DSS Post-Baccalaureate Certificate Program has the following deadlines for admission: Fall: June 15 Spring: November 10 Summer: March 15 Apply Now > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.