Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Perkins School of Theology External Programs and Centers The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program The Hispanic/Latin@ Ministries Program The Hispanic/Latin@ Ministries Program was founded in 1974 to prepare church leaders with the knowledge and skills for effective ministry in Spanish-speaking and bilingual contexts and cultures. The program remains committed to recruiting, preparing and providing continuing education for people in ministry with Hispanics/Latin@s. It is at the heart of Perkins School of Theology’s leadership as a vibrant center of Hispanic/Latin@ theological thought and writing and a vital advocate before the general church with and in behalf of Hispanic/Latin@ congregations and ministries. The Hispanic/Latin@ Ministries Program offers pastors and laity its short-term, intensive training programs through the Course of Study School in Spanish (Curso de Estudio); the United Methodist Local Pastors Licensing School in Spanish (Escuela de Licencia); continuing education events, symposia, consultations and lectures. Some of its academic program areas include oversight of the concentration in Hispanic studies and support of L@s Seminaristas, a student organization for Perkins students focused on ministry with Hispanics/Latin@s. The program works closely with The United Methodist Church's National Plan for Hispanic/Latino Ministry and MARCHA, the official Hispanic/Latin@ United Methodist caucus. The program publishes the quarterly journal Apuntes: Theological Reflections from the Hispano-Latino Context. Leer en español. Mission Statement Equip and educate the church to engage Latino communities for mutual transformation. Vision Statement Crossing borders for transformational ministry. The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Program Areas Concentration in Hispanic Studies Apuntes Hispanic Summer Program Escuela de Licencia Licensing School (In Spanish) Licensing School (In Spanish) Book List L@s Seminaristas Roy D. Barton Lectureship Social Media Contact Information An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share