Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Financial Services Paying Your Bill Make a Payment Billing Information Student bills are available exclusively online through iROAR. Students can log in using their username and password. Authorized users can also access the student bill using their unique username and password. The online bill reflects the student's current registration and billing information. Because the bill is real-time, students can verify that all fees are satisfied before the payment deadlines. Students may add a parent or other designee as an authorized user via TouchNet. Students can click on the "Authorized users" link via TouchNet, and enter their parent or other designee's email address. An email with login instructions will then be sent to the parent or designee. Authorized users may view the student's tuition bill, make a payment, enroll in a payment plan, retrieve 1098-T tax information, or enroll in eRefund for Parent Plus loan. Authorized users have a unique login. If you cannot access your bill online, please call 864-656-5592 or email us at studentbillquestions@clemson.edu. If your fees change for any reason after your initial payment (i.e., housing adjustment, meal plan addition, change in schedule, etc.), you are responsible for promptly paying the balance. You must log in to iROAR to view your current charges and payment status. A non-refundable $150 late payment fee is charged if the bill is not satisfied by the payment due date for fall and spring terms. For summer terms, the late payment fee is $75. Payment Due Dates The following due dates represent the date that Student Financial Services must receive and process payments. If payment is not received by the published due date, a late fee may be assessed, and the student's schedule is subject to cancellation. Summer 2022 All payments must be posted to the student's account by May 11, 2022. If you add a course after the due date, payment must be made immediately. Unpaid Student Accounts are subject to Class Cancellation. You can pay online through iROAR with an eCheck at no additional service charge or by credit card with a 2.85% service fee. A late fee is applied when payment is made after the due date. Payment Methods eChecks: eChecks are the preferred payment method and are available as a payment option with no additional service charge. You may pay via eCheck on iROAR. Credit Card: You may pay with a credit card via iROAR. Clemson University accepts VISA, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express for tuition and student fee payments online only. **Clemson University does NOT accept in-person credit/debit card payments for tuition and fees** A 2.85% non-refundable service fee will be assessed at the time of the transaction. (Please note that some debit cards have a daily transaction limit and will decline transactions over a designated dollar amount, regardless of the cardholder's available balance.) International Student Payment Instructions (non-U.S. accounts): Students can send international payments to Clemson through Flywire or PayMyTuition, which allows you to pay from almost any country and any bank, save on bank fees and exchange rates, and track your payment from start to finish. More detailed instructions are available on International Student Payment Instructions. 529 College Savings Plan: Payments that are submitted by 529 savings plans should be mailed directly to the University at: Clemson University Student Financial Services G-08 Sikes Hall Box 345307 Clemson, SC 29634 Be sure to contact your 529 plan's administrator, as they will provide you with instructions on how to authorize a withdrawal from your 529 College Savings Plan. Keep in mind that processing these payments takes a varying amount of time, depending on the financial institution. Please do not delay requesting funds from your plan to avoid a late fee on your account. Payment Plans are available for fall, spring and summer semesters. TigerStripe cannot be used to pay tuition and fees. Cash: Due to increasing security concerns, the Student Financial Services Office does not accept cash as a form of tuition payment. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause. We do not want to jeopardize the safety of students/employees carrying cash on campus. Mail: Checks and money orders can be mailed to: (be sure to include the student ID #) Clemson University Student Financial Services G-08 Sikes Hall Box 345307 Clemson, SC 29634-5307 This address will also work for FedEx and UPS shipments because the box number listed is not a PO Box. Prepaid Programs SCTPP — account owner will need to submit a copy of their South Carolina Tuition Prepayment Program (SCTPP) card to Student Financial Services (SFS). Once SFS has verified the SCTPP account, a credit will be extended in the "anticipated payment amount" on behalf of your plan administrator. The credit will be itemized on the student bill and include the terminology "SC Prepaid Billing." Please note: SCTPP will not cover fees that are not assessed to ALL Clemson students (i.e., lab fees, library fee, CBBS course/major fee and/or optional fees). Other state prepaid plans (not including 529 College Savings Plans) — account owner must contact their plan administrator to begin the process. Once the account owner has completed all required documentation with their plan administrator, the prepaid program will send Clemson a third-party billing authorization letter. Based upon how your prepaid program calculates your tuition payment (i.e., per credit hour, restricted, unrestricted), a credit will be extended in the "anticipated payment amount" on behalf of your plan administrator. The credit will be itemized on the student bill and include the terminology "Prepaid Billing." Returns Returned Items: A check, eCheck, EFT or credit card used as payment for University expenses that is returned unpaid by the bank creates an indebtedness to the University. Student Financial Services administers matters relating to the collection of all returned items for student payments. Student Financial Services will represent returned items for payment of academic fees. A $30 fee will be charged for each returned item. If a payment is returned or dishonored for any reason, the student's account may be debited electronically for the amount of the check plus the $30 returned item fee. If the item is returned to the University in a timely manner with no response from the student or drawer, a written request to disenroll the student will be made to the Registrar. If the request is approved, the percentage of refund will be applied to the debt. If the item is returned after the mid-point of the semester with no response, a decision will be made by the Director of Student Financial Services and the Registrar as to the effect of disenrollment. The University may restrict subsequent academic and other fee payments by accepting only certified checks and money orders. Any individual who uses a two-party check for payment of University expenses will be held responsible for that check if it is returned unpaid by the bank. Items used as payment for various University services (such as meal plans, housing, etc.) that are later returned unpaid by the bank give the University the right to cancel such services and cause forfeiture of any refund. Any returned items not collected by the above procedures may be turned over to a collection agency. The indebtedness reported to a credit bureau and collection fees will be added to the account. Transcripts and diplomas will be withheld pending payment, and the debt may be deducted from state income tax refunds. Abuse of check payment privileges may result in the restriction of such privileges for an indefinite period of time-based on the frequency and/or dollar amount, as determined by Student Financial Services. Returned Checks: A $30 returned check fee will be charged for all returned checks. Returned checks and subsequent fees must be satisfied with a certified check or money order. Returned eChecks: A $30 returned eCheck fee will be charged for all returned eChecks due to non-sufficient funds, stop payment, frozen accounts, and revoked authorizations. eChecks returned for invalid routing and/or account number will be charged a processing fee of $10. Returns of this nature will create a returned check receivable on the student account and tuition will be considered unpaid. The ability to pay via eCheck may be restricted for any student with three or more returned payments or at the discretion of Student Financial Services. Credit Card Charge Backs: Any credit card payment disputed, reversed, and returned to the University will be placed on the student's account as a receivable and collected via the above policy and procedures. Returned credit card payments are subject to a $30 returned item fee. Please note that PayPath, Clemson's Credit Card Payment Service, charges a non-refundable service fee. As specified in the agreement at the time of payment, it is not refundable under any circumstances. If this fee is disputed and reversed, it will be placed on the student account for collection. Any returned item creates an indebtedness to the University and may affect enrollment. Payment Plans - Fall/Spring Four Payment Plan Clemson University is pleased to offer the optional Four Payment Plan, a convenient method of planning for and paying your tuition and fees for the Fall or Spring semester. By using direct debits from your checking account (Equity or Savings Accounts cannot be used for payment plan transactions) or credit card, the Four Payment Plan allows you to pay tuition and fees in up to four monthly installments, rather than paying one lump sum by the published payment deadline. The Four Payment Plan is not a loan; you will not be charged any interest. Your only cost is a non-refundable fee, due at the time of payment plan enrollment. Only one active payment plan is allowed per student account To enroll in the Clemson University Four Payment Plan, please enroll via iROAR. After iROAR login, click on the "Student Billing" tab and click on "My Bill." From there, select payment plans from the menu at the top of the page. Fall 2021 Four Payment Plan Enrollment Schedule Fall Sign up completed by: Due at Sign-Up # of Monthly Drafts First Draft Date By August 6, 2021 $75 Payment Plan Fee August 6, 2021 By August 7 - August 12, 2021 (Fall due date) $75 Payment Plan Fee + 25% of the balance September 3, 2021 Spring 2022 Four Payment Plan Enrollment Schedule Spring Sign up completed by: Due at Sign-Up # of Monthly Drafts First Draft Date By December 3, 2021 $75 Payment Plan Fee December 3, 2021 By December 4, 2021 - January 6, 2022 (Spring due date) $75 Payment Plan Fee + 25% of the balance January 7, 2022 Payment plan enrollment is available online via iROAR beginning the day tuition bills are generated for the semester. Enrollment in the Four Payment Plan must occur prior to the published payment deadline to avoid late fees and/or course cancellation. Missed or late payments will be assessed a $150 late fee. Debit Dates (All debits occur on the first Friday of the month) Four Payment Plan Debit Dates Fall 2021: Spring 2022: August 6, 2021 December 3, 2021 September 3, 2021 January 7, 2022 October 1, 2021 February 4, 2022 November 5, 2021 March 4, 2022 Automatic Adjustment Installment amounts may change over time to account for new charges, payments, or financial aid adjustments. You will receive email notifications about any changes to your payment plan. Automatic draft amounts will not be adjusted within 14 days of the next draft date. Any adjustments made to the student account after the final draft may create a balance due, which must be paid separately through iROAR. Four Payment Plan Terms and Conditions Two Payment Plan What is the Two Payment Plan? The Two Payment Plan is a 2-payment deferred plan designed for students who cannot pay their fees in full on the payment due date. Whether the student cannot pay their bill due to an in-process loan application or a change in family finances, this payment plan gives them more time to satisfy their fees. Participation in the plan signifies the student's ability and willingness to pay the outstanding balance within the allotted time. How does a student sign up for the plan? Students wishing to use the Two Payment Plan will sign-up online at iROAR. The plan is available the day tuition bills are generated for the semester. Students must sign-up prior to the published payment deadline each semester to avoid late fees and/or course cancellations. How much does the plan cost? Students will be assessed a $150 Payment Plan enrollment fee at sign-up. A late billing fee of $150 will be assessed each month if payment is not received by the due date. We encourage students to schedule payments at the time of sign-up to avoid the late fee. When are payments due and how are minimum payments determined? When a student enrolls in the plan, the outstanding balance at the time of enrollment will be divided by 2 to determine the minimum monthly payment. Financial Aid or changes in fees may affect monthly payment amounts. Payments are due by the 15th of each month (September 15 and October 15 for fall; February 15 and March 15 for spring) and may be automatically drafted from a checking account. Students may also pay online using an eCheck (no service charge) or by Visa, MasterCard, Discover or American Express (a 2.85% service fee applies to all credit/debit card transactions). What happens if the student does not make the agreed-upon payments? Students not meeting the requirements of the payment plan are subject to: · Late payment fees · Registration block · Student privilege restrictions · Payment plan block · Transcript hold · Collections charges · Credit bureau reporting Two Payment Plan Terms and Conditions Summer Payment Plan Clemson University is pleased to offer an optional Summer Payment Plan. This payment plan is designed for students who are unable to pay their fees in full on the payment due date. Participation in the plan signifies the student's ability and willingness to pay the outstanding balance per the payment plan agreement. Payment plan enrollment is available online via iROAR beginning the day summer tuition bills are generated. Enrollment in the Summer Payment Plan must occur prior to the published payment deadline to avoid late fees and/or course cancellation. The Summer Payment Plan consists of 2 payments. The first draft will be due upon enrollment and will be 25% of the Summer account balance. The second payment will be due by June 15. A late payment fee of $150 will automatically be assessed for late payments. There is a $150 enrollment fee for this plan. Optional Fees Optional fees can be added (through the first day of class) by logging into iROAR, clicking on the Student Financial Services tab and clicking on the "Optional Fees" link under the Student Billing tab. After the beginning of the semester, all meal plan changes must be done in accordance with the deadlines established by the TigerOne Card Office. Students/parents may deposit up to $2500 per semester to students' Tigerstripe accounts through the Student Financial Services office. For deposits in excess of $2500, please contact the TigerOne Card Office. All students with a Clemson University user ID and password (and who are able to log on to the University's computer network) must purchase their parking permit with a credit card or with their tuition and fees at the Parking Services Website. Home Tuition and Fees Paying Your Bill Authorized User/Parent Adjustments 1098-T Non-Enrolled Collections FAQ Contact Us Orientation Resources Related Links Office of the Executive Vice President for Finance and Operations Academic Success Center Financial Aid Housing and Dining Parking Services Tiger 1 Card Registrar's Office Academic Calendar Graduate School Office of Global Engagement Study Abroad Student Insurance Information Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram