Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Search < Back to Columbia Public Health Menu Reproductive Health Access Information and Services in Emergencies The RAISE Initiative is committed to the provision of fully integrated and comprehensive SRH services for all. About People Partners Evolution Action Resources Publications Technical Briefs Training Materials Contact Search You are here Home Reproductive Health Access Information and Services in Emergencies Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Comprehensive Reproductive Health Care Health and development organisations worldwide have recognized the critical importance of global reproductive health for all people. Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care (EmONC) Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care (EmONC) refers to the care of women and newborns during pregnancy, delivery and the time after delivery. Contraceptive Services Contraceptive services are essential to the ability of women and families to achieve good health and well-being. Resources Download training materials and safe abortion briefs, and view selected publications. Action RAISE gives technical support to partners to develop and expand SRH services. Partners From DR Congo to Chad to Afghanistan, RAISE works closely with its partner organisations. Watch the Video Watch the short video "At Two Fronts" to see the need for sexual and reproductive health services in humanitarian settings. Close Sign Up Subscribe to our email list to receive our weekly literature review. Join Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers