The Center for Biorenewable Chemicals CBiRC is enabling the growth of the nascent biobased chemical industry by integrating biological and chemical catalysis systems to produce biorenewable chemicals. Advanced Biomanufacturing for Sustainable Bioproducts Home About Mission Multidisciplinary Research Meeting Cycle Bioproduct Markets Lead Institution Partnering Institutions Team Structure NSF ERC Program Bioproducts Bioproduct Testbeds Bi-Functional Testbed Carboxylic Acid Testbed Pyrone Testbed Thrust 1: Biocatalysis Thrust 2: Microbial Engineering Thrust 3: Chemical Catalysis Techno Economic Analysis Research Faculty Web Pages Get Involved Education Pre-College Programs Research Experiences for Teachers Young Engineers & Scientists Program at CBiRC Trinect Program University Program Graduate Minor Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) International Program Education Opportunities Industry Become an Industry Member Benefits of Membership Industry Program Goals Industry Value Chain Industry Venture Members Invention Disclosures Jobs & Internships Technology Readiness Translational Research Innovation Business Model Canvas Entrepreneurship Course Entrepreneurship Mentoring Innovation Ecosystem Innovation Partners Sources of Support Startup Entities Students Apply for a CBiRC Student Position Biorenewables Graduate Minor Education Opportunities Internships from Industry Members Job Postings from Industry Members Meetings and Events Student & Postdoc Resources Student Leadership Council Publications Accomplishments Brochure Journal Highlights Meetings and Events CBiRC Site Visits CBiRC Working Meetings Photos & Video Gallery Internal Resources People Faculty and Staff Leadership Research Faculty Web Pages Contact Us Intranet SharePoint Project Center Welcome to the Center for Biorenewable Chemicals (CBiRC) CBiRC will transform the chemical industry by integrating biological and chemical catalysis systems to produce biorenewable chemicals. CBiRC will also… [more] Industry Program The objective of the Industrial Collaboration and Innovation Program is to build and sustain an active collaboration between CBiRC’s academic partners… [more] CBiRC Education Program CBiRC has an extensive educational mission, including: (1) Educating pre-college teachers; (2) Educating pre-college students; (3) Providing hands-on research… [more] Research Program CBiRC's pioneering research programs are focused on developing technologies that enable the production of biorenewable chemicals. CBiRC will achieve this… [more] The CBiRC Team 2015 CBiRC Working Meeting at Iowa State University in Ames, Iowa… [more] Featured Articles Welcome to CBiRC The Center for Biorenewable Chemicals (CBiRC) is developing the tools, components and materials needed to transform carbohydrate feedstocks into biobased chemicals (video). Core know-how and technologies include bioengineering of fatty acid and polyketide biochemistry in microorganisms, as well as an innovative and complementary portfolio of developments in chemical catalysis. By combining biocatalysis and chemical catalysis CBiRC creates new know-how and powerful systems that have the potential to nurture a sustainable biobased chemical industry. CBiRC believes it can enable the growth of the nascent biobased chemical industry with key biobased foundational intermediates that deliver an array of drop-in chemistry or similar functionality to existing fossil-carbon-based chemicals. Researchers develop, test new system for making biorenewable chemicals 10-16-2018 by Mike Krapfl, News Service AMES, Iowa – Researchers will test a new way of producing biobased chemicals that’s backed by 10 years of working in laboratories, partnering with industries and launching startups. The researchers’ work is based on the concept that certain “bioprivileged molecules” have unique properties and can be efficiently converted to chemical products. […] Coronavirus (COVID-19) – Iowa State University Updates Iowa State University is monitoring and responding to the outbreak of COVID-19, please refer to the University updates and resources page. Sundeep Vani Joins Iowa State University as Chief Technology Officer for Biobased Products 10-25-2019 By Dan Kirkpatrick, Office of the Vice President for Research Sundeep Vani has joined Iowa State University to serve in the newly created role of Chief Technology Officer (CTO) for Biobased Products, part of the State of Iowa’s Biosciences-based economic growth initiative. In his role as CTO, Vani will serve as a conduit between […] Based at: NSF Engineering Research Center for Biorenewable Chemicals (CBiRC), 1140 Biorenewables Research Laboratory, 617 Bissell Road, Ames, Iowa 50011-1098, (515) 294-8354, fax: (515) 294-1269, cbirc-info@iastate.edu Copyright 2008, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. An NSF ERC since 2008 Top of Page Copyright © 2022 · Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in