Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now News Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Credit: “Sanofi Pasteur/2012 licensed under CC BY-NC-ND 2.0.” Aging, Community Health, Infectious Disease, Mental Health Jul. 21 2021 Survey of Older New Yorkers Uncovers Worrisome Effects of Coronavirus Pandemic New research from ICAP at Columbia Mailman School of Public Health looks into the mental health and social ramifications of the COVID-19 pandemic among older adults living at home in New York City and is the first to study the effects of COVID on the elderly population living in the community as opposed to in nursing homes. The results showed that the pandemic negatively impacted the mental health of senior New Yorkers living in non-institutional settings. To better understand the effects of COVID-19 on seniors who do not live in congregate care or institutional settings the researchers conducted a phone survey of New Yorkers age 70 and older titled SARS-CoV-2 Impact on Lives and Views of Elderly Residents (“SILVER”). Until now little had been known about the effects of the pandemic on older adults living at home who generally were compelled to remain secluded from friends and family. Results are published on the ICAP website. Among the key findings: • Overall, 18 percent of older adults screened for depression and 17 percent for anxiety. Latinx older adults were most likely to report knowing someone who died of COVID-19, having tested themselves for COVID-19 and testing positive for COVID-19. Consequently, a greater percent of Latinx older adults screened likely for anxiety and depression and reported more loneliness than other races/ ethnicities. • Social determinants of health—particularly income, race, and employment status—were related to worse mental health outcomes. • A substantial number of older New York adults were not able to connect to others because of a lack of internet services during the pandemic limiting access to telehealth services, information sources, and COVID-19 vaccine appointments. • While a majority of older adults indicated an intention to be vaccinated, vaccination rates and intentions were lowest among Black older adults, mirroring a nationwide trend of hesitancy among Black Americans. “The SILVER study has shed light on the urgent social and mental health needs of older New Yorkers living independent of a long-term care facility,” said Wafaa El-Sadr, MD, MPH, MPA, ICAP global director. “These results should inform the kinds of services older adults need now and in similar situations in the future.” This SILVER survey was supported by the New York Community Trust, the Samuels Foundation, and an anonymous donor. “Surveys of this kind are critically important for a comprehensive response to a pandemic such as this one,” said El-Sadr. “Without these data, entire segments of the population could risk slipping through the cracks.” Read the full survey report on the ICAP website Related Stories Columbia Public Health Responds to the COVID-19 Pandemic COVID-19 Infection Prevention and Control in Long-Term Care Facilities Mapping the Areas Most Vulnerable to COVID-19 Hospitalizations Related Faculty Wafaa El-Sadr University Professor, Dr. Mathilde Krim-amfAR Chair of Global Health Epidemiology (In ICAP) Contact Us Stephanie Berger Phone: 212-305-4372 Email: sb2247@columbia.edu More in Aging Family Size May Influence Cognitive Functioning in Later Life Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the West Dean Linda P. Fried Awarded Kober Medal for Scientific and Mentorship Achievements Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers