Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Return to Campus Return to Campus Menu Search for: Home Before you return Safety measures at Harvard Chan School Tips on testing at Harvard Chan School For faculty and instructors For students For staff, researchers, and postdocs Flexwork at Harvard Chan School Resources for managers Resources for staff Flexwork FAQs Health and wellbeing Verify your vaccination Testing guidance Dining Event guidance For visitors Transportation and parking Travel guidance COVID-19 Response: Public Health in Action Harvard coronavirus website FAQs Staying healthy at Harvard Chan School Harvard Chan School is excited to welcome members of the community back to campus in 2021-2022. The health and safety of our community is our paramount concern. We are committed to keeping everyone healthy while ensuring excellence in teaching, learning, and research. Our return to campus has been planned based on detailed guidance from Harvard University, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and other local, state, and federal officials. As conditions change, it is possible that Harvard University and Harvard Chan School may adjust health and safety requirements. It is important to recognize this uncertainty and prepare to adjust for possible changes ahead. The information on these pages provides current policies aimed at health and safety. You’ll find details about vaccination, masking, distancing, and testing; guidance on events and gatherings, dining, parking, and public transportation; information on flexwork; and resources to ensure your well-being. March 2022: Updated Exposure, Quarantine, and Isolation Guidance Watch a video on how Harvard is keeping its classrooms safe, with Giang Nguyen, executive director of Harvard University Health Services Quick Links Color – for activating your testing kits Crimson Clear – for verifying vaccination status and on-going testing cadence Harvard Training Portal – for COVID guidance and how to complete a test kit Verify your vaccine All faculty, staff, researchers and instructors must record their vaccination status with Harvard University Health Services (HUHS). Log your vaccine with HUHS here. To confirm that your vaccination status is up to date, log into Crimson Clear. Mask up As of March 14, 2022, Harvard Chan School is now mask-optional. However, we welcome people to wear masks to maintain a safe and healthy campus. Free, pre-approved, three-layer “procedure masks” are available at entrances to all School buildings and KN95 masks are available upon request from security staff. We strongly recommend double-masking. Options include wearing two surgical-style masks or wearing a surgical-style mask or cup-style mask such as a School-provided KN-95 layered under a form-fitting fabric mask that can ensure good filtration as well as an effective seal. Guidance from Harvard Environmental Health & Safety can be found here. Although an N95 mask is appropriate for situations when someone is working in close contact with aerosol-generating procedures, such as dental hygiene and certain medical procedures with unmasked patients, individuals in other situations may choose to provide and wear their own N95 mask. To voluntarily wear an N95 mask, you must complete the Harvard University Respiratory Protection for Voluntary Users training on the Harvard Training Portal. For more information please reference Harvard Environmental Health & Safety Face Coverings: General Use guidelines. If requested, anyone wearing an N95 mask must show their certificate of training completion, which they should print after successfully completing their online Harvard N95 mask training. Test regularly Please test according to your assigned cadence. Visit the University’s Testing & Tracing page for more information, and set up your Color account and your Crimson Clear account for details on your testing cadence and to manage test results. You can pick up and drop off test kits at the entrances to the FXB and Kresge Buildings. You are welcome to test as often as you like. Pay attention to how you feel If you feel sick, stay home. If you’ve been exposed to someone with COVID-19, or have symptoms, get tested, and please log your symptoms in Crimson Clear. What to do if you’re a close contact of someone with COVID-19 Although being a close contact doesn’t necessarily mean you’ll develop COVID-19, it’s best to take precautions. Report your exposure and any symptoms to HUHS via Crimson Clear. If you are fully vaccinated and have no symptoms, you may continue to go to work or class, but you should avoid social events and any activities that involve removing your mask around other people. If you develop any symptoms, even mild ones, or if you are not vaccinated, you must stay home and await further guidance from HUHS. Whether you have symptoms or not, it is important that you submit an extra COVID test soon after you learn that you’re a close contact of someone with the disease, and you should test frequently for the next week or so. Learn more here. What to do if you test positive If you receive a notification of a positive test, it’s incredibly important to minimize your movement and exposure to others. HUHS will contact you to discuss what it means to be positive and explain next steps. Please note that, as of January 2022, HUHS will no longer be contact tracing and will be communicating exclusively by email (see the HUHS email template). See Understanding Test Results for more information. Find new ways to commute The University is offering new flexible parking and transit options for employees who are continuing with hybrid work models. Learn about Longwood campus options here. Get your technology ready Check out these tips and resources from Harvard University’s Information Technology department on how to reintegrate your phone, computer, and other devices with campus systems. Also, check out the Return Readiness page from Harvard Chan School’s Information Technology (IT) department, which lists services and resources for working onsite, remote, or hybrid. Proactively plan and prepare before working onsite is required. Contact IT today if you have questions or concerns about your equipment and would like assistance in preparing to return. Did you know you can configure your devices to connect to Harvard’s secure wireless network before you arrive on campus? Simply visit getonline.harvard.edu, click “I Have a Harvard Key,” and follow the steps. When you are back on campus and in range of the wireless network your device will connect. Read HR’s guidance Harvard University’s Human Resources department has put together a comprehensive list of answers to common questions about returning to campus. Countway Library Countway Library is open to all Harvard University ID holders. Seat reservations are no longer required. Click here to learn more about library hours, policies, and visitor information. Questions? Use the Ask Countway form. And click here to access a collection of COVID-19 information and research. Community messages May 20, 2022 IMPORTANT COVID-19 guidance for Graduation * PLEASE READ IF YOU ARE PLANNING TO ATTEND GRADUATION EVENTS* Dear Members of the Harvard Chan School Community: With … Continue reading “IMPORTANT COVID-19 guidance for Graduation” May 16, 2022 Important campus updates Dear Members of the Harvard Chan Community: We hope you were able to enjoy the warm temperatures this weekend. With … Continue reading “Important campus updates” April 26, 2022 COVID-19 Required Testing Dear Members of the Harvard Chan School Community: We hope you’ve had a chance to read yesterday’s message from the … Continue reading “COVID-19 Required Testing” April 13, 2022 COVID-19 Guidance Update Dear Members of the Harvard Chan School Community, We hope you had a chance to read today’s University message from … Continue reading “COVID-19 Guidance Update” March 31, 2022 COVID-19 Guidance Update Dear Members of the Harvard Chan School Community: We hope you’ve had a chance to read yesterday’s message from the … Continue reading “COVID-19 Guidance Update” View all messages View messages prior to August 2021 News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College