COVID-19 UH Updates skip to Main Content Home Directory MyUH Work at UH Apply Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr Youtube Campuses dropdown menu column 1 Overviews Universities Mānoa Hilo West Oʻahu column 2 Community Colleges Hawaiʻi Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Maui Windward column 3 Distance Learning UH Education Centers Continuing Education Community Colleges Attend dropdown menu column 1 Overview Degrees and Programs column 2 Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition UH System dropdown menu column 1 About UH Strategic Directions Policies and Procedures Title IX column 2 Leadership Board of Regents System Offices A-Z Stewardship of Maunakea column 3 UH News Emergency Post-Pandemic Hawaiʻi and UH column 4 Support UH UH Foundation UH Alumni Relations Make a Gift Policies UH System » Offices » EEO/AA » Policies University of Hawaiʻi EEO/AA Policies The EEO/AA Office develops and maintains Executive, Systemwide and Mānoa policies and procedures. We promote the implementation of these policies by conducting workshops and search committee briefings, providing online training, providing advice and resources on the disability accommodation process, and through the investigation and resolution of complaints. Publicizing UH Equal Opportunity Policies Anti-Discrimination Board of Regents Policy RP 1.205 It is the policy of the university to provide equity of opportunity in higher education, both in the educational mission and as an employer. The university is committed to comply with all State and Federal statutes, rules, and regulations which prohibit discrimination. The university is committed to a policy of nondiscrimination on the basis of race, sex, gender identity and expression, age, religion, color, national origin, ancestry, citizenship, disability, genetic information, marital status, breastfeeding, income assignment for child support, arrest and court record (except as permissible under State law), sexual orientation, national guard absence, or status as a covered veteran. This policy covers admission and access to and participation, treatment, and employment in the university’s programs and activities. Discriminatory harassment, including sexual harassment, is prohibited under this policy. The university shall promote a full realization of equal opportunity through a positive, continuing program of nondiscrimination and affirmative action (41 CFR Chapter 60) on each campus. Domestic or Sexual Violence (includes stalking) Effective January 1, 2012, Hawaiʻi Revised Statutes chapter 378 was amended to protect victims of domestic or sexual violence from discrimination. This protection covers employment practices such as recruitment, hiring, training, promotion, retention, compensation, benefits, transfers, and layoffs. FAQ for victims of domestic and sexual violence (Act 206) (PDF) Executive Policy EP 1.202 – University Statement of Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action (PDF) Sexual Harassment The policy defines prohibited harassment and provides specific examples. Interim Executive Policy EP 1.204—Interim Policy on Title IX Sexual Harassment (PDF) Executive Policy EP 1.202 – University Statement of Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action (PDF) Prevention and Information Contact your campus Title IX Coordinator for information, educational material and workshops. Title IX training is available for UH employees online. Campus Contacts Title IX Coordinator UH Mānoa Gender Equity Specialist Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, and Stalking The University of Hawaiʻi is committed to creating a community free from intimidation, harassment and violence. Sexual assault is prohibited by law and is a serious offense that violates the basic standards of behavior expected of members of the university community. The university will not tolerate acts of sexual assault. This includes domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking. The university will take appropriate action to prevent sexual assault and will correct and discipline behavior that is found to violate this policy. Interim Executive Policy EP 1.204—Interim Policy on Title IX Sexual Harassment (PDF) How to Get Help Any member of the university community who has been sexually assaulted is strongly encouraged to report the incident to the local police and/or campus security. You may also request assistance from your campus Title IX Coordinator or Dean/Vice Chancellor for Students. UH Mānoa students and employees may contact the Gender Equity Counselor or the Counseling & Student Development Center. Title IX training is available for UH employees online. For information on campus procedures, resources, and complaint procedures, please contact your campus Title IX Coordinator. The University’s Executive Policy EP1.204 prohibits sexual harassment and sexual violence in any University workplace, educational program, activity, or service, which includes all academic, extracurricular, student housing, athletics, and other programs. The policy covers sexual harassment and sexual violence based on gender identity and gender expression. The policy applies to all students and employees of the University, as well as volunteers, visiting interns, and third parties such as guests, patrons, independent contractors, or clients of the University The policy applies to persons regardless of their sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression. The University prohibits and will not tolerate retaliation. Persons who commit retaliation in violation of this policy are subject to appropriate disciplinary action. Retaliation includes adverse actions against a person because they have filed a complaint, participated in an investigation, or otherwise opposed discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence. Retaliation involves adverse actions that would dissuade a reasonable person from opposing prohibited conduct. Consensual Relationships The University of Hawaiʻi is committed to ensuring a safe, civil, working environment in which the dignity of every individual is recognized and respected. All members of the University share equal responsibility in this regard. All relationships between University employees and its students adhere to principles of professionalism, integrity, mutual trust, and respect. The new Policy on Consensual Relationships takes a best-practice approach in recognizing and managing consensual relationships, while also balancing the privacy interests of individuals and supporting the values, mission and goals of our university. In particular, this policy will help our campuses remain free from real or perceived conflicts when individuals in positions of unequal power are involved in consensual romantic, dating or sexual relationships. Power is unequal when one individual in a relationship has direct supervision, direction, instruction, oversight, evaluation, advisement or substantial influence over the employment or educational status of another. Executive Policy EP 1.203 – Policy on Consensual Relationships Questions & Answers on the Consensual Relationships Policy Disability Access Job Accommodations Contact the EEO/AA Office at eeo@hawaii.edu or your campus EEO/AA Coordinator for information on the reasonable accommodation process for applicants and employees with disabilities. Please contact us if you would like to read the State of Hawaiʻi Accommodations for Employees with Disabilities Manual, which outlines the recommended procedures and provides accommodation request forms and medical waivers. Program Access Are you teaching a class? Sponsoring a public event? Organizing a workshop? Leading a field trip? Responsible for a sports event? All university programs and activities should be accessible to persons with disabilities. Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act states: “A public entity shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids and services where necessary to afford an individual with a disability an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a service, program, or activity conducted by a public entity.” For information and guidance on program access, contact your campus ADA/504 Coordinator. Systems Programs and UH Mānoa departments can contact the EEO/AA Office at eeo@hawaii.edu or the KOKUA Program (student disability services). You can also download the State of Hawaiʻi Programs and Services Manual For Persons with Disabilities. The manual covers customer service, auxiliary aids, sign language interpreters, facility access, service animals, registration forms, catering and banquet facilities, audio/visual presentations, safety and other elements of an accessible program. Web access All university programs have an obligation to ensure effective communication with persons with disabilities. This includes print media, audio media and electronic media such as the internet. More about designing accessible websites. Recruitment and Hiring Procedures For guidelines on affirmative action recruitment and EEO in the hiring process, see AP9.540 Recruitment and Selection Procedures for APT and Faculty Search Committees Are you serving on a search committee? Please review the Mānoa Search Committee Packet (PDF). You are strongly advised to have your campus EEO/AA Coordinator provide a search committee briefing on affirmative action goals and recruitment, unlawful and lawful inquiries, confidentiality, preventing conflicts of interest and conducting background and reference checks. Last modified: December 2, 2021 2444 Dole Street Honolulu, HI 96822 An equal opportunity/ affirmative action institution Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy copyright © 2022 University of Hawaiʻi Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr YouTube Contact UH If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request. Get Adobe Acrobat Reader Calendar Directory Emergency Information MyUH Privacy Statement Work at UH About UH Attend Campuses Degrees and Programs Leadership Offices Back To Top Submit