Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor>Baylor Law>Admissions>Apply>Application Requirements>JD Applicants JD Applicants There are two portions of the law school application: the Credential Assembly Service law school report (CAS report) and the electronic application (E-app) portion. See below for the requirements in each section. CAS Report Each applicant must register with the Credential Assembly Service. Your CAS report will be requested as soon as you submit your application, and Baylor Law will receive updated CAS reports. 1. Baccalaureate Degree and Transcripts Each applicant must have earned a baccalaureate degree from an accredited U.S. university (or its equivalent from a foreign institution). You should arrange to have all post-secondary transcripts included with your CAS report when you apply. Every Baylor Law student is required to submit official transcripts from each institution of higher education in which the student was enrolled prior to matriculation at Baylor Law, so that we may verify all academic credits undertaken and all degrees conferred. The deadline for each entering class is listed below. Unless an exception is approved by the Associate Dean on the basis of extraordinary circumstances, any student who does not submit all required transcripts by the deadline will be administratively withdrawn from all classes and prohibited from attending any class until all transcripts are submitted. Deadline for submission of official transcripts: Fall entering classes – October 15 Spring entering classes – March 1 Summer entering classes – June 5 2. Law School Admission Test (LSAT) Score(s) Each applicant must take the LSAT. The Admissions Committee will see all reported scores from the prior 5 test years. You should take the LSAT (and have a reported score) prior to the application deadline for the quarter for which you are applying. 3. Letters of Recommendation We require one letter of recommendation but will accept up to three letters. Letters from professors, employers, or other individuals who can attest to your ability to enter a rigorous, professional program are beneficial. A letter from someone who does not know you well is of no value and does not enhance your file. You should request your letter(s) in advance of the application deadlines, and your letter(s) must be submitted through the LSAC Letter of Recommendation Service. We cannot accommodate any requests to hold application files awaiting additional letters of recommendation. E-app 1. E-app Form and Character and Fitness Questions Each application must fill out the e-app form with basic information. Additionally, each applicant must fill out a series of questions regarding the applicant's character and fitness to practice law. If you answer affirmatively to any of these questions, you must submit an addendum explaining your affirmative answer. More details are included on the law school application. 2. Personal Statement Each applicant must submit a personal statement, which should be approximately two to three pages in length, double-spaced, in 12-point font. Your personal statement must be a product of your own work and must be prepared without the assistance of other people or professional writing services. The personal statement is your opportunity to persuade the Admissions Committee that you should be admitted to Baylor Law. Through your personal statement, the Admissions Committee hopes to get a sense of you as a person, as well as evaluate your writing ability. What you choose to write about is up to you. Any number of factors could be helpful to the Admissions Committee, including: your motivation to study law; evidence of academic achievement, leadership, responsibility, or community involvement; your educational, social, or economic background; and any special skills that you possess, such as bilingual language skills or advocacy skills. We are particularly interested in any aspect of your background that would allow you to distinctively enrich the law school environment. 2. Addenda In addition to your personal statement, you may submit addenda that discuss aspects of your academic background, LSAT performance, or life experiences that you believe will enhance your application for admission. Your addenda should not exceed two pages in length and should not be used as an extension of your personal statement. You can submit your addenda either by including them with your personal statement and uploading the one document with your e-app or by submitting them directly to Sam Smith at Samantha_Smith6@baylor.edu. 3. Résumé You must submit a résumé with your application. Your résumé should reflect all full-time and part-time employment, as well as all extra-curricular activities, honors, and community activities. Your résumé should not exceed two pages in length. Other Considerations 1. Application Fee Baylor Law does not have an application fee. 2. Applying for Admission to More than One Quarter Baylor Law operates on a quarter system and enrolls entering students in three of its four quarters: Spring (February), Summer (May), and Fall (August). The application pool for the Fall class is larger than the application pool for the Spring and Summer classes, making admission into the Fall class more competitive. An applicant can apply for admission to more than one quarter at a time. To apply to more than one quarter, submit a separate application for each quarter for which you want to be considered. There is one slight exception to the requirement that you apply for each quarter separately: our Fall application asks if you would like to be considered for the following Spring if you are not admitted to the Fall term. If you answer “yes," your Fall file is reactivated (i.e. copied) at some point in June or July, and you will receive separate consideration for the following Spring term. The copy is a point-in-time process, so if you are planning on submitting CAS report (e.g., a new LSAT score or new transcript), you will need to let us know prior to the reactivation point and must submit a new application. 3. Interview Baylor Law offers optional interviews. Click here for more information. 3. Additional Character and Fitness Considerations In addition to a bar examination, there are character, fitness, and other qualifications for admission to the bar in every U.S. jurisdiction. Applicants are encouraged to determine the requirements for any jurisdiction in which they intend to seek admission by contacting that jurisdiction. Addresses for all relevant agencies are available through the National Conference of Bar Examiners. 4. Licensure Requirements Since you are applying for admission to a program that may prepare you for an occupational license, Texas law requires that Baylor notify you of your potential ineligibility to obtain a license due to prior criminal convictions. Additional information can be found at https://www.baylor.edu/admissions/index.php? id=948617 or https://www.lawserver.com/law/state/texas/tx-codes/texas_occupations_code_chapter_53. See additional information about licensure here: https://www.baylor.edu/professionaleducation/index.php?id=975337. 5. Non-Discrimination Policy Baylor University complies with all applicable federal and state nondiscrimination laws. Baylor University admits students of any race, color, national and ethnic origin, sex, age, disability, or veteran status to all the rights, privileges, programs, and activities generally accorded or made available to students at the school. It does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national and ethnic origin, sex, age, disability, or veteran status in administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other school-administered programs. Baylor University is controlled by a predominantly Baptist Board of Regents and is operated within the Christian-oriented aims and ideals of Baptists. The University is also affiliated with the Baptist General Convention of Texas, a cooperative association of autonomous Texas Baptist churches. As a religiously-controlled institution of higher education, the University is exempt from compliance with some provisions of certain civil rights laws. As such, the University prescribes standards of personal conduct that are consistent with its mission and values. This policy statement is neither intended to discourage, nor is it in fact applicable to, any analytical discussion of law and policy issues involved, or to discussions of any recommendations for changes in existing law. Discussions of these matters are both practiced and are welcomed within our curriculum. Further information may be obtained from the University website at: Student Policies and Procedures. Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School