Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Army ROTC Army ROTC right arrow down arrow Cadets & Campus Life right arrow down arrow Scholarship Clubs Branches Cyber Leadership Development UC Army Nursing Summer Training Cadre Leadership right arrow down arrow PMS-LTC Black SMI - MSG Castillo APMS - MAJ Cary APMS - MAJ Aguirre MSI - SFC Schooff MSI - SFC Isbell Program Coordinator APMS - CPT Dalton APMS - CPT Bryan Alumni Home » Campus Life » Army ROTC » Cadets & Campus Life » Branches Set Navigation title in component Scholarship Clubs Branches Cyber Leadership Development UC Army Nursing Summer Training Branches There's a reason ROTC Cadets go on to become governors, presidents and CEOs. After Army ROTC, you will have what it takes to balance working with both civilians and enlisted personnel, instilling confidence as an Officer, a leader, a trainer and a mentor. Several paths to take Army ROTC prepares college students to succeed in any competitive environment. The leadership training and experiences that students have in Army ROTC will provide them with a foundation to become commissioned Army Officers upon graduation. Upon completion of the Army ROTC program, graduates will be commissioned as Second Lieutenants in the U.S. Army and will embark on specialized training in their first Army branch. Armor right arrow down arrow Armor officers are responsible for tank and cavalry/forward reconnaissance operations on the battlefield. The role of an armor officer is to be a leader in operations specific to the armor branch and to lead others in many areas of combat operations. Job Duties Command the armor units and combined armed forces during land combat Coordinate the employment of armor Soldiers at all levels of command Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB), a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for a armor officer , includes completion of the Armor Officer Basic Course where you learn the skills and operational aspects that are used in an armor platoon. Cavalry officers will need to complete the Scout Leaders and Cavalry Leaders Courses. Helpful Skills Self-discipline, confidence and intelligence Physically and mentally fit to perform under pressure Ability to make quick decisions Capable of bearing numerous responsibilities Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Future Civilian Careers The skills you learn will help prepare you for a career in fields such as business management. An officer in the Army is closely related to managerial positions in corporations. Infantry right arrow down arrow The infantry officer is responsible for leading the infantry and combined armed forces during land combat. Job Duties Coordinate the employment of Infantry Soldiers at all levels of command in U.S. and multinational operations At increasing levels of leadership, an infantry captain’s responsibilities may include: Commanding and controlling the infantry and combined armed companies and company-sized units (200 - 300 Soldiers) Developing doctrine, organizations and equipment for unique infantry missions Instructing Infantry skills at service schools and combat training centers Serving as an Infantry advisor to other units, including Army National Guard and U.S. Army Reserve organizations Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for an infantry officer requires completion of the Basic Officer Leadership Courses I, II & III. These courses will emphasize leadership, tactics and technical competence that are common to the infantry. Part of this time is spent in the classroom and part in the field. Infantry officers can also volunteer for airborne and ranger school or for specific developmental assignments in airborne and ranger units. Helpful Skills Self-discipline, confidence and intelligence Physically and mentally fit to perform under pressure Ability to make quick decisions Capable of bearing numerous responsibilities Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Future Civilian Careers The skills you learn will help prepare you for a career in fields such as business management. An officer in the Army is closely related to managerial positions in corporations. Aviation right arrow down arrow Aviation officers coordinate/lead operations using Army helicopters: OH-58 Kiowa, UH-60 Black Hawk, CH-47 Chinook and the AH-64 Apache. These operations can haul troops and carry supplies, as well as provide quick-strike and long-range target engagement. Job Duties Coordinate employment of aviation Soldiers and aircraft at all levels Command and control aviation platoons Provide aviation coordination Instruct aviation skills at service schools and combat training centers Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for an aviation officer requires completing aviation school, where you study rotary-winged aircrafts and basic flying skills. Some of the skills you’ll learn are: Basic flight physics and flight systems Emergency procedures Flight map drawing and reading You will then begin Basic Combat Training in combat flight skills that are used by Army pilots, and eventually specialize in one of the following helicopters: OH-58 Kiowa UH-60 Black Hawk AH-64 Apache CH-47 Chinook Helpful Skills Self-discipline, confidence and intelligence Physically and mentally fit to perform under pressure Ability to make quick decisions Capable of bearing numerous responsibilities Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Future Civilian Careers The skills you learn will help prepare you for a career in fields such as business management. An officer in the Army is closely related to managerial positions in corporations. Engineer right arrow down arrow An engineer officer is responsible for providing full support to the wide range of engineering duties in the Army. They can help build structures, develop civil works programs and even provide combat support. Job Duties Sapper — Emplace demolitions, conduct reconnaissance and support maneuver units with mobility, countermobility and survivability Bradley — Destroy, neutralize and suppress the enemy using the Bradley Fighting Vehicle Construction — Construct roads, buildings, military bases, airfields, etc. Bridge — Construct, emplace or assemble numerous bridges Rescue — Perform search and rescue operations Training — Train the force, write new policy and research alternative engineering technology Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for an engineer officer begins with an undergraduate degree and the Basic Officer Leadership Course. Other opportunities may include taking courses at graduate schools and other military institutions. Helpful Skills Self-discipline, confidence and intelligence Physically and mentally fit to perform under pressure Ability to make quick decisions Capable of bearing numerous responsibilities Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Future Civilian Careers The skills you learn will help prepare you for a career as an engineer in the civilian sector. In fact, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers comprises of 30,000 civilian and 750 military engineers, making it one of the premier design and construction agencies in the world. Military Police right arrow down arrow A military police officer is responsible for leading the Soldiers that protect lives and property on Army Installations. Officers supervise the execution of the five military police Battlefield functions: Maneuver and mobility support operations (reconnaissance and surveillance) Area security operations (site security and response) Law & order operations (law enforcement and developing host-nation police forces) Internment/resettlement operations (military prisoners and enemy combatants) Police intelligence operations Job Duties Lead small, tactical military police units and organizations Advisor to the Army Reserve and Army National Guard Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for a military police officer requires completing the Basic Officer Leader Course II and 10 weeks of Military Police Basic Officer Leadership Course III in Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. Some of the skills you’ll learn are: Officer leadership responsibilities Skills and tactics of the Military Police Corps Helpful Skills Self-discipline, confidence and intelligence Physically and mentally fit to perform under pressure Ability to make quick decisions Capable of bearing numerous responsibilities Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Chemical right arrow down arrow A Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear officer commands the Army branch that specifically defends against the threat of CBRN weapons and Weapons of Mass Destruction. These officers lead an extraordinary chemical unit that is completely dedicated to protecting our nation. Job Duties Command CBRN operations during combat/peacetime Coordinate employment of CBRN Soldiers at all levels of command Instruct CBRN skills at service schools and training centers Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Forces Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for a CBRN officer includes completion of the CBRN Basic Officer Leaders Course Phase III, where you will learn leadership skills, tactics and operational aspects used in a chemical platoon. Part of this time is spent in the classroom and in the field. Some of the skills you’ll learn are: CBRN defense procedures and toxic agent training Preparing chemical units and serving as a battalion CBRN officer HAZMAT Operations Certifications (Department of Defense – accredited) Demolition exposures Helpful Skills Self-discipline, confidence and intelligence Physically and mentally fit to perform under pressure Ability to make quick decisions Capable of bearing numerous responsibilities Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Field Artillery right arrow down arrow The field artillery officer leads the field artillery branch, who neutralizes the enemy by cannon, rocket and missile fire. The officer must be an expert in tactics, techniques and procedures for the employment of fire support systems. Job Duties Lead field artillery troops and combined armed forces during land combat Coordinate the employment of field artillery Soldiers at all levels of command Additional positions include the role of fire support officer, fire direction officer, platoon leader and battery executive officer Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for a field artillery officer requires completion of Basic Officer Leaders Course I & II and the Field Artillery Officer Basic Course. This will provide in-depth knowledge for fire support, observed fire, fire direction and platoon leadership. Helpful Skills Self-discipline, confidence and intelligence Physically and mentally fit to perform under pressure Ability to make quick decisions Capable of bearing numerous responsibilities Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Future Civilian Careers The skills you learn will help prepare you for a career in fields such as business management. An officer in the Army is closely related to managerial positions in corporations. Air Defense Artillery right arrow down arrow The air defense artillery officer leads the air defense artillery branch, who protects U.S. forces from aerial attack, missile attack and enemy surveillance. They must be an expert in tactics, techniques and procedures for the employment of air defense systems. They also become an expert in one or more of the following systems: the PATRIOT missile system and the AVENGER system. Job Duties Coordinate the Air Defense target engagement process in joint and multinational operations Employment of Air Defense Artillery Soldiers at all levels of command Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for an air defense artillery officer includes completion of the Air Defense Artillery Officer Basic Course. This will provide in-depth knowledge on leadership, tactics and the operational aspects of weapons/vehicles. Helpful Skills Self-discipline, confidence and intelligence Physically and mentally fit to perform under pressure Ability to make quick decisions Capable of bearing numerous responsibilities Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits n the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Future Civilian Careers The skills you learn will help prepare you for a career in fields such as business management. An officer in the Army is closely related to managerial positions in corporations. Military Intelligence right arrow down arrow The Army’s military intelligence is responsible for all collected intelligence during Army missions. They provide essential information that often save the Soldiers fighting on front lines. Military Intelligence Officers specialize in these specific areas: Imagery iIntelligence: Collection and analysis of imagery using photogrammetry and terrain analysis. All-Source iIntelligence: Performs collection management/surveillance/reconnaissance and provides advice. Counterintelligence: Provides coordination and participation in counterintelligence investigations, operations and production. Human intelligence: Controlled collection operations and interviews. Signals intelligence/electronic warfare: Collects signal intelligence and engages in electronic warfare. All-source intelligence aviator: Performs duties as an aviator/MI officer and participates in special electronic mission aircraft missions. Job Duties Command and coordinate the military intelligence Soldiers and combined armed forces Assess risks associated with friendly/enemy courses of action and act to counter/neutralize intelligence threats Use intelligence systems and data to reduce uncertainty for a commander Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for a military intelligence officer requires completing the Military Intelligence Officer Basic Course. Part of this time is spent in the classroom and in the field. Some of the skills you’ll learn are: Leadership skills and tactics in an Infantry platoon Maintenance and operational aspects of weapons and vehicles Helpful Skills Self-discipline, confidence and intelligence Physically and mentally fit to perform under pressure Ability to make quick decisions Capable of bearing numerous responsibilities Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Future Civilian Careers The skills you learn will help prepare you for a career in fields such as business management. An officer in the Army is closely related to managerial positions in corporations. Signal right arrow down arrow The signal officer leads the Signal Corps, which is responsible for the Army’s entire systems of communication. Officers plan and execute all aspects of communication on a mission and are critical to the Army’s continued success. Job Duties Maintain the Army’s voice, data and information systems Making tactical decisions Coordinate employment of Signal Soldiers at all levels of command Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for a signal officer requires completion of the Signal Officer Basic Course, where you learn the skills and operational aspects that are used in the Signal Corps. Helpful Skills Self-discipline, confidence and intelligence Physically and mentally fit to perform under pressure Ability to make quick decisions Capable of bearing numerous responsibilities Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Future Civilian Careers The skills you learn will help prepare you for a career in fields such as business management. An officer in the Army is closely related to managerial positions in corporations. Quartermaster right arrow down arrow Quartermaster officers are responsible for making sure equipment, materials and systems are available and functioning for missions. More specifically, the quartermaster officer provides supply support for Soldiers and units in field services, aerial delivery, and material and distribution management. Job Duties Commanding and controlling quartermaster operations and combined armed forces during land combat Coordinate employment of quartermaster Soldiers at all levels of command in U.S. and multinational operations Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Quartermaster officer training includes completion of the Quartermaster Officer Basic Course, where you will learn leadership skills, tactics, maintenance and operational aspects of weapons and vehicles used in a quartermaster platoon. Your training will take place in classrooms and in the field. Helpful Skills Self-discipline Physically fit Perform under physical and mental pressures Make decisions quickly and on your own Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Future Civilian Careers While there is no directly related job for a quartermaster officer in the civilian world, the leadership skills you gain as an Army officer will help you in many types of civilian careers. An officer in the Army is most closely related to a vital manager in a corporation. Transportation right arrow down arrow The Transportation Corps is responsible for moving supplies, troops and equipment anywhere on the globe. During war, the Transportation Corps utilizes trucks, boats and airplanes to provide extremely fast support to the combat teams on the frontlines. Transportation officers are experts in the systems, vehicles and procedures of moving troops and supplies in the Army. Job Duties Commanding and controlling transportation operations and combined armed forces during land combat. Coordinate employment of Transportation Soldiers at all levels of command in U.S. and multinational operations Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for a Transportation officer requires completion of the Transportation Basic Officer Leader Course, where you will learn leadership skills, tactics, maintenance and operational aspects of weapons and vehicles. Your training will take place in classrooms and in the field. Helpful Skills Self-discipline Physically fit Perform under physical and mental pressures Make decisions quickly and on your own Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Future Civilian Careers The skills you learn will help prepare you for a career with privately owned moving companies or freight operators. Ordnance right arrow down arrow Ordnance officers are responsible for ensuring that weapons systems, vehicles and equipment are ready and available — and in perfect working order — at all times. They also manage the developing, testing, fielding, handling, storage and disposal of munitions. Job Duties Commanding and controlling operations during land combat Coordinate employment of ordnance Soldiers at all levels of command Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for an ordnance officer requires completion of the Ordnance Officer Basic Course, where you’ll learn leadership skills, tactics, maintenance and operational aspects of weapons and vehicles used in an ordnance platoon. Your training will take place in classrooms and in the field. Helpful Skills Self-discipline Physically fit Perform under physical and mental pressures Make decisions quickly and on your own Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Future Civilian Careers While there is no directly related job for an ordnance officer in the civilian world, the leadership skills you acquire as an Army officer will help you in many types of careers. An officer in the Army is most closely related to a key manager in a corporation. Adjutant General right arrow down arrow An adjutant general officer is responsible for providing personnel support that affects Soldiers’ overall welfare and well-being, while assisting commanders by accounting for and keeping Soldiers combat-ready. Job Duties Principal advisor to the battalion commander for all matters concerning human resource support for all assigned and attached personnel Responsible for supervising all strength management/strength distribution actions Assignment as a platoon leader: responsible for training, readiness, health and welfare of 20 Soldiers and the accomplishment of wartime missions. Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for adjutant general officer requires completion of the Adjutant General Basic Officer Leader Course, where you’ll learn leadership skills, tactics and operational aspects of Human Resources automation systems and practices. Additional training opportunities will be available based on the type of unit you are assigned to, including (but not limited to) postal operations, airborne or air assault school. Helpful Skills Self-discipline Physically fit Perform under physical and mental pressures Possess good verbal and written skills Creative thinking Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Future Civilian Careers The duties of an adjutant general officer are very similar to the function of a high-level human resources executive in the civilian world. Finance right arrow down arrow The financial manager is in charge of the Army’s Finance Corps, who are responsible for sustaining missions through purchases of services and supplies. Job Duties Command financial operations and combined armed forces during combat/peacetime Coordinate employment of Finance Soldiers at all levels of command Charge of Army pay, commercial vendor support, disbursement of public funds, auditing, travel allowances, accounting, financial management information systems and banking Requirements Those who want to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for a financial manager requires completion of the Finance Officer Basic Course, where you will learn all aspects of systems and practices used in a finance platoon. Part of this time is spent in the classroom and in the field. Helpful Skills Self-discipline, confidence and intelligence Physically and mentally fit to perform under pressure Ability to make quick decisions Capable of bearing numerous responsibilities Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Future Civilian Careers The skills you learn will help prepare you for a career such as a bookkeeper or an accountant. An officer in the Army is also closely related to managerial positions in corporations. Medical Service right arrow down arrow Medical service corps officers command the medical service corps that treats and helps the Soldiers and their families in a variety of areas: Behavioral sciences – social workers, clinical psychologists and counseling psychologists Health administration services Laboratory sciences – biochemists, clinical laboratory officers, microbiologists and research psychologists Optometry Pharmacy Podiatry Preventive medicine sciences – medical science officers, entomologists, audiologists, environmental science officers and sanitary engineers Job Duties Command/control the medical service corps units during emergency and nonemergency medical situations Coordinate employment of medical service corps Soldiers at all levels of command Requirements Officers must be degreed professionals in their areas of specialty in order to join the medical service corps. Those who want to serve must also take the Armed Forces Vocational Aptitude Battery, a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Training Job training for medical service corps officers includes completing an Officer Basic Leadership Course, which introduces you to the Army Health Care system, Army doctrine and basic Soldier/leader skills. Helpful Skills Ability to make accurate, immediate decisions Perform under stress Apply critical technical and thinking skills Tremendous concentration Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay, and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education. Army Nurse right arrow down arrow Nurse Corps officers lead a nursing team that cares for Soldiers and their families. As part of the Army Nurse Corps, they play an important role in improving the overall quality of life for Soldiers and their families. Job Duties Organize resources for patients and their families for help with inpatient, outpatient and home care Command a shift on a nursing unit that is part of a field hospital or for an installation medical activity Supervise all nursing care during your shift at all levels of command Requirements Active duty and Army Reserve must have a bachelor’s degree in nursing from an accredited school. Training Job training for a Nurse Corps officer includes completing an Officer Basic Leadership Course, which introduces you to the Army Health Care system, Army doctrine and basic Soldier/leader skills. Helpful Skills Ability to make accurate, immediate decisions Perform under stress Apply critical technical and thinking skills Tremendous concentration Compensation Active Duty Receive Army Nurse Accession Bonus Nurse Loan Repayment Program Low-cost life and dental insurance, Noncontributory retirement benefits with 20 years of qualifying service 30 days of paid vacation earned annually Army Reserve Qualified nurses can receive Special Pay Health Care Professionals Loan Repayment Program Noncontributory retirement benefits at age 60 with 20 years of qualifying service Low-cost life and dental insurance Education Benefits The U.S. Army provides generous education loan-repayment programs, residency programs and continuing education opportunities to support your continued career growth and development. Partnership for Youth Success (PaYS) Program Those interested in this job may be eligible for civilian employment, after the Army, by enrolling in the Army PaYS program. The PaYS program is a recruitment option that guarantees a job interview with military friendly employers that are looking for experience and trained Veterans to join their organization. Some employers include: AT&T, Inc. Hewlett-Packard Company Kraft Foods Global, Inc. Sears Holdings Corporation Time Customer Service, Inc. Walgreen Co. Cyber right arrow down arrow Cyber branch is a maneuver branch with the mission to conduct defensive and offensive cyberspace operations (DCO and OCO). Cyber is the only branch designed to directly engage threats within the cyberspace domain. Over the past 2 years only 30 2LTs were branched Cyber (15 ROTC/ 15 USMA). In 2017, the army looks to place 32 ROTC cadets into the cyber branch. Job Duties Lead, plan and direct both defensive and offensive cyberspace maneuvers and effects operations in and through the cyberspace domain Conduct OCO by using cyber capabilities in and through cyberspace to target and neutralize threats Conduct DCO by protecting data, networks, net-centric capabilities, and other designated systems through detection, identification, and response actions to attacks against friendly networks Execute mission command of cyber maneuver forces during DCO and OCO missions in support of joint and combined arms operations Requirements Those who wish to serve must first take the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB), a series of tests that helps you better understand your strengths and identify which Army jobs are best for you. Applicants must have a bachelors of science or higher degree in electrical engineering, computer science, computer engineering, information systems, information assurance/cyber security or mathematics. Training Job training for a cyber operations officer requires completing the Cyber Basic Officer Leaders Course (CBOLC). Part of this time is spent in the classroom and in the field. Some of the skills you’ll learn are: Leading a team in cyber operations Analyzing information Preparing technical products Helpful Skills Self-discipline, confidence and intelligence Physical and mental fitness to perform under pressure Ability to make quick decisions Capability to bear numerous responsibilities Compensation Total compensation includes housing, medical, food, special pay and vacation time. Learn more about total compensation. Education Benefits In the Army, qualified students can earn full-tuition, merit-based scholarships, allowances for books and fees, plus an annual stipend for living expenses. Learn more about education benefits. Future Civilian Careers The skills you learn will help prepare you for a career in certain government agencies as well as jobs in private electronic/communication companies. University of Cincinnati\n2600 Clifton Ave\nCincinnati OH 45221\n513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati\n2600 Clifton Ave\nCincinnati OH 45221\n513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top