Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries International Business Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs International Business Major Apply Visit Request More Info International Business Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Business Administration in International Business Gain a global business perspective with the Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in International Business in the Fox School of Business at Temple University. This 124-credit undergraduate program teaches you the skills necessary to thrive in the ever-changing global economy. The International Business major prepares you for the many complex challenges businesses face when operating on a global scale. Through comprehensive coursework, you will broaden your understanding of how foreign economic, legal and political frameworks can impact international trade. You will also develop foundational knowledge of wide-ranging global business concepts and practices, including cross-cultural negotiations, customs and trade regulations, global finance systems, and international market research. Differentiate yourself from the competition in the global workforce by developing a foreign language proficiency, which is a requirement of the major. Students interested in embracing global business studies without becoming proficient in a foreign language should consider enrolling in the International Business minor. Short trips and semesters spent abroad allow you to experience countries firsthand and continue building cultural capital. When not immersing yourself in foreign language and culture, you will continue your studies on Temple University’s Main Campus. Located in North Philadelphia, Temple’s Main Campus connects you to the city’s many eclectic neighborhoods through easily accessible public transit. By exploring Philadelphia’s rich communities, you will hone the interpersonal skills necessary to communicate with diverse groups of people. Concentrations You can focus on International Business or you can take one of the following concentrations. International Economics Explore complex economic models through a global lens. Learn the basic theories of international trade and commercial policy, and develop an understanding of the relationship between trade and economic growth. View Concentration Details International Entrepreneurship Learn to identify and pursue opportunities on an international scale. Lead high-performing companies by developing skills around communication, globalization, human resource management and leadership. Drive innovation to further the development of industries and technologies. View Concentration Details International Finance Develop competency around financial theory and management concepts relevant to global markets and firms. Gain comprehensive understanding of corporate finance, currency market and risk management, and international financial systems. Deepen your knowledge of complex topics such as asset-liability management and regulatory constraints. View Concentration Details International Marketing Apply a global perspective to market analysis, developing strategies that consider the cultural, economic, legal and political differences of various countries. Collect and interpret data, set advertising objectives and goals, and incorporate digital technologies into marketing campaigns. View Concentration Details International Sales and Business Development Explore the complexities of sales and sales management within international marketplaces. Build skills around account relationship management, recruitment, sales ethics, selection, training and basic professional networking. View Concentration Details International Supply Chain Management, Transportation and Logistics Gain the logistical and problem-solving skills required for work in global commerce. Learn to navigate the complexities of dispute resolution, global trade, import and export regulations, international sales, and the nuances of supply chain management. View Concentration Details Classes & Curriculum There are three required classes common across all six International Business concentrations, including a capstone course taken during your final semester. These core classes amount to nine credits of the major’s overall 126-credit requirement. The three common courses are as follows. Global Entrepreneurship International Business Practicum* International Marketing *This capstone course culminates with an online business simulation and a consulting project requiring analysis of an international business situation. Learn more about required courses for the International Business BBA. Certificates Students have the option of completing one of the following certificates alongside International Business major coursework. Certificate in Asian Business and Society is earned after completing a minimum of 15 credits and satisfying the language requirement in Chinese, Hindi, Japanese or Korean. Certificate of Specialization: Spanish and Latin American Studies for Business is earned after completing 18 credits or six courses. It is designed to allow Temple students in business-related programs to develop skills and knowledge in two complementary areas. These certificates are awarded at time of completion of the bachelor’s degree and cannot be pursued as standalone programs of study. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration MBA Business Administration PhD Business Administration Executive DBA Accelerated 3-year BBA Motivated students can accelerate their BBA program to finish in three years. To find out more about completing your degree on an accelerated timeline, contact your advisor. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contact For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to international business students in the Fox School of Business. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Explore the full list of Fox School of Business student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-IB-BBA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in International Business Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info