Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Health Services, Policy & Practice Home About Doctoral Program Research People News Site Navigation Home AcademyHealth 2021 Virtual ARM HSR PhD Student Courtney Johnson wins the 2021 AcademyHealth Best Abstract of the Health Economics Interest Group (HEIG)! 2020 ARM | Virtual 2019 ARM | Washington, D.C. 2018 ARM | Seattle 2017 ARM | New Orleans 2016 ARM | Boston Global Health Engagement HSR Seminar Series About From the Chair Doctoral Program Program Description Course Requirements What Our Students Are Saying What Our Faculty Are Saying Dissertation Spotlight Job Market Candidates Alumni Research People Doctoral Students Faculty Administrative Core Staff Department Leadership News Open Positions Brown University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer and actively solicits applications from women and minorities. The University is committed to fostering and maintaining a diverse work culture that respects the rights and dignity of each individual, without regard to race, color, national origin, ancestry, religious creed, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, gender expression, height, weight, marital status, disability, medical condition, age, or veteran status. The University is supportive of the needs of dual career couples. AHRQ Post Doctoral Fellow Description Unique interdisciplinary fellowship training opportunities in Health Services Research and Geriatrics/Gerontology are available at Brown University for MDs, PhDs and those seeking doctoral training in health services research. The position requirements for a post-doctoral fellowship are: MD and continuation of basic clinical training, or PhD in health services research, sociology, epidemiology, economics or related field. Qualified candidates for doctoral training in health services research are also eligible. Physicians seeking a post-doctoral appointment may opt to pursue a Master’s degree in Epidemiology, Translational Research or an MPH. Pre- and post-doctoral fellows are integrated into on-going externally funded research in one or more substantive areas, including chronic disease management, long-term care, community-based systems of care, health care organizations and methodological approaches to comparative effectiveness research. Term of appointment is for two years, renewable contingent upon funding. Screening for post-doctoral positions will continue until all successful candidates have been identified or the search is closed while pre-doctoral applications are subject to standard application deadlines for Brown’s Graduate School. Brown University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. Must be U.S. citizen or permanent resident to apply. Qualifications The position requirements for a post-doctoral fellowship are: MD and continuation of basic clinical training, or PhD in health services research, sociology, epidemiology, economics or other related field. Qualified candidates for doctoral training in health services research/clinical epidemiology are also eligible. Applicants must be U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Application Instructions Interested physicians who have completed some clinical training (preferably a residency and clinical fellowship, if appropriate) and nonphysicians who have completed a PhD are invited to apply. Once applications have been reviewed by the faculty, a select group of candidates is invited for an interview. An invitation is based on a candidate's demonstrated academic ability, depth of commitment to health services research, and compatibility of research interests with ongoing projects at the Center. Invited candidates spend an entire day at the Center, give a research presentation, interview with the faculty who comprise the Evaluation and Review Committee, and meet the current postdoctoral fellows. The program director and the faculty review written evaluations by faculty and fellows, as well as information provided through informal discussions. Applicants must be U.S. Citizens or permanent residents. Applicants are required to upload the following into Interfolio: an essay (500 to 1000 words) describing your career plans in the area of health services research. Include any particular research interests and experience a curriculum vitae three current letters of reference, at least one of these from a faculty member in your doctoral program, letter writers should upload their letters directly to Interfolio using the link a copy of your best written work Interested applicants can apply through Interfolio at: http://apply.interfolio.com/61529 Contact Andrea Medeiros for program description and application at: [email protected] or (401) 863-3673. Equal Employment Opportunity Statement Brown University is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive academic global community; as an EEO/AA employer, Brown considers applicants for employment without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis of, gender, race, protected veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected status. Assistant Professor, Tenure Track, PH-293 Assistant Professor, Tenure Track, PH-293 Brown University: School of Public Health: Health Services, Policy & Practice Location Providence, RI Open Date Nov 03, 2021 Description The Department of Health Services, Policy & Practice within the School of Public Health at Brown University invites applications for an Assistant Professor position on the Tenure Track. The start date for the position is July 1, 2022 but is negotiable with the successful candidate. The Department of Health Services, Policy & Practice is one of the four departments in the Brown University School of Public Health. It is the home of an excellent PhD program in Health Services Research and a long-standing post-doctoral training program, which are funded by T32s from NIH and AHRQ. Faculty work closely with these trainees. The Department is the home to researchers interested in a wide variety of health services research topics, including gerontology, post-acute and long-term care, pharmacoepidemiology, evidence-based medicine, health economics, cluster randomized trials, health care disparities, Medicare and Medicaid, and HIV. The Department has two research centers. The Center for Gerontology and Healthcare Research is nationally renowned for health services research focusing on chronic illness and long-term care. Many Center investigators hold joint appointments with the Providence Veterans Administration’s Center of Innovation in Long Term Services and Supports. The second research center associated with the Department, the Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health (CESH) works on novel methodologies for comparative effectiveness research, with emphasis on the steps of evidence synthesis (by means of systematic review and meta-analysis), and evidence contextualization (by means of mathematical modeling, optimization, decision and economic analysis). Collaborative opportunities extend across a successful array of research groups within the School of Public Health, across the University, and through local and regional partners. Qualifications Applicants must have a doctoral degree, either an MD, or a PhD in health services research, epidemiology, economics or related discipline, with evidence of rigorous training in research, a track record of scholarly activity, and capacity to secure external funding. We welcome applications from candidates who are just finishing training or who are in rank at the Assistant Professor level. We aim to hire an individual with the potential to become an exemplary independent scholar in health policy. We seek applications from individuals of diverse backgrounds and a commitment to supporting diversity and equal opportunity in education and research. Application Instructions Interested applicants should submit a letter of application, curriculum vitae, and diversity statement through Interfolio. Candidates should arrange for at least three letters of recommendation to be submitted through Interfolio. Brown University is committed to increasing diversity and inclusion of underrepresented groups. In your diversity statement, please address how your past and present work demonstrates a commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion, and how you intend to continue your commitment to diversity in future work. We value the different ways this might be demonstrated through scholarship, teaching, mentoring, service and community engagement.The application system will open on 11/1/2021. Review of applications will begin on 12/1/2021 and will continue until an appropriate candidate is identified or the search is closed. This institution is using Interfolio's Faculty Search to conduct this search. Applicants to this position receive a free Dossier account and can send all application materials, including confidential letters of recommendation, free of charge. Apply Now Equal Employment Opportunity Statement Brown University is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive academic global community; as an EEO/AA employer, Brown considers qualified applicants for employment without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis of, gender, race, color, national origin, sexual orientation, religion, protected veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected status. The Department of Health Services, Policy & Practice, Brown School of Public Health The Department of Health Services, Policy & Practice, Brown School of Public Health 121 South Main St. Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top