By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life For Students Grievance Processes Student Grievance Processes Syracuse University makes every effort to resolve student complaints within the University, usually at the school/college or department level, using policies and procedures outlined in the University Course Catalog, the Student Handbook, College of Law Academic Handbook, or on the University Policies page. Students have the right to utilize any and all such administrative procedures to address concerns and/complaints in a timely a manner as possible. For procedures regarding: Academics If you have concerns about a course grade and are considering an appeal of that grade, please see Academic Rules: 8.4.6 Grade s Appeals . Information on how to file a complaint is available at Academic Integrity Policy under Reporting an Academic Integrity Violation. For academic complaints not related to grades or academic integrity, please contact the department chair or academic dean for assistance. Violation of Non-Discrimination Policy If you are interested in filing an alleged violation of the University’s Policy on Non-Discrimination, information can be found in the Office of Equal Opportunity, Inclusion and Resolution Services (EOIRS) website at Report a Concern . Americans with Disabilities Act If you have a concern regarding academic accommodations or access to programs/services, please visit the Office of Disability Services . If you feel you have been discriminated against based on a disability and are interested in filing a complaint or obtaining more information about your rights please visit EOIRS’s Report a Concern page. Bias-Related Incidents If you have experienced or witnessed a bias-related incident and you would like more information on reporting the incident via an anonymous web-based reporting tool please visit STOP Bias . Code of Conduct If your concern relates to an alleged violation of the Code of Student Conduct, information about the conduct process for students and information on how to file a complaint can be found at the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities . The College of Law’s Code of Student Conduct, including grievance procedures, can be found in the Academic Handbook . Criminal Activity If you were the victim of or witnessed criminal activity on campus and wish to file a report, please call the Department of Public Safety at 315.443.3728 or visit Report a Crime for more information. Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Any student who has reason to believe that the University is not complying with FERPA or this policy should inform the University Registrar in writing. The Registrar shall promptly review all such allegations and initiate appropriate actions. For further information see Student Privacy Rights (FERPA) . Title IX If you have experienced or witnessed an incident of sexual discrimination including sexual harassment you can obtain information on the process for filing a report by visiting EOIRS’s Report a Concern page. University Ombuds Provides faculty, staff and graduate students with an informal, confidential, impartial and independent resource to address concerns or questions openly without fear of retaliation or judgment. Please visit the University Ombuds page. Other Complaint Processes for Students For concerns not addressed in the previously listed topic areas, please consult the Syracuse University Grievance Procedures Policy . The Graduate School’s Grievance Resolution process for graduate students is available on the Policies and Requirements page. Complaint and grievance processes begin and are typically resolved at the department or school/college level. If a complaint is not resolved satisfactorily internally (within the University), then students may file a complaint with the New York State Education Department (NYSED) which oversees higher education in New York. Their complaint process can be found at: http://www.highered.nysed.gov/…INFO.html . Complaints may also be filed with the University’s accrediting agency, Middle States Commission on Higher Education. The Commission reviews complaints about substantive matters that are related to the quality of the institution or its academic programs. Middle States Commission on Higher Education 1007 North Orange Street, 4th Floor, MB #166, Wilmington, DE 19801 Email: info@msche.org Spanish: españolinfo@msche.org General link: www.msche.org This information is provided in compliance with the Code of Federal Regulations, Chapter 34, §668.43(b) http://www.ecfr.gov/…se34.3.668_143&rgn=div8 . Distance Learning Students Distance Learning Complaint Process for Out-of-State Students Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy