Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Global Public Health–Honduras Home Service Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Boston College's Global Public Health–Honduras is a service-immersion program committed to working with the poor and marginalized in Honduras. The program emphasizes service that enables students to observe first-hand the social and economic determinants of health and disease that impact marginalized and poor populations. What We Do Learn about the structural and social realities that leave some people impoverished and marginalized. Understand the challenges and innovations of global public health. Learn about the history, politics, and culture of Honduras. Draw on Boston College’s Jesuit tradition in considering how faith might ask us to respond to social injustices. Overview Join Donate Contact Global Public Health-Honduras extends beyond national boundaries and seeks to prevent disease and end disparities in health that are driven by age, gender, race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, sexual preference, and geography. The theory and practice of public health are closely aligned with the teachings of Pope Francis’ visionary encyclical Laudato Si’ that calls upon all people to care for our planet, end social and economic injustice, and prevent disease, disability, and premature death. The heart of our work is spent in the community surrounding Comayagua, where APUFRAM International's main campus in Flores serves as our home base. We meet biweekly throughout the spring semester to learn about the structural and social realities that leave some people impoverished and marginalized, and to gain a basic knowledge of global public health, as well as the challenges and innovations it presents. We also learn about the history, politics, and culture of Honduras, and seek to draw on Boston College’s Jesuit tradition in considering how faith might ask us to respond to social injustices. Helpful Links Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Global Public Health (CDC) APUFRAM APUFRAM Videos: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kKytVlP89TU https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U3_WrGtnHEE World Health Organization History and Politics of Honduras: CIA Department of State Honduras News Print and Radio: Daily News of Honduras in English Honduras Radio English Spanish dictionary of health related terms Learning Outcomes Through participating in Global Public Health–Honduras, students will be able to: Learn how social, economic, and environmental factors shape patterns of health and disease in populations. Gain an understanding of the politics of social and economic injustice. Experience the power of visionary individuals and organizations to combat injustice and improve the health of populations. Articulate what it means to live in solidarity with the marginalized and, utilizing Ignatian discernment, reflect on ways they might translate their experiences into action. Requirements Applicants must: Be current Boston College undergraduates in the Class of 2020, 2021, or 2022 Have a valid passport Be able to commit to all required meetings, including biweekly group meetings and the overnight retreat Not be participants in another 2018-19 international service-immersion trip Applicants DO NOT: Need to speak Spanish Need to be a Life Science major Need to be in the Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences Applications can be submitted via this link. The application asks for basic BC demographic information and has five short answer questions about your interest in global health, reflection, and participation in this service-immersion trip. Want to type your responses in Word first? The short answer questions are: Why are you interested in global public health? What would you gain from the trip experience? What would you contribute to it? How have you experienced reflection during your time at BC? How would you utilize it as a participant in this program? What are your future career plans? What activities are you involved in on- and off-campus? Trip Date and Cost The Global Public Health–Honduras trip is Saturday, July 28 to Saturday, Aug. 4, 2018, and costs $900, which includes travel from Miami to Honduras, as well as accommodations and meals in Honduras. Because we're traveling during summer break, students are responsible for their own travel arrangements to and from Miami. Students are also responsible for any costs related to necessary travel vaccinations. (See below for required vaccinations). We will be involved in some collective group fundraising projects to help defray the costs of participation as much as possible. Contact us with any questions or concerns about costs. Safety Abroad Boston College considers the safety of participants an absolute priority. We not only consider the U.S. Department of State’s assessment of travel in a particular country, we also are in constant communication with our trusted In-Country Partner Organizations (ICPs). We choose to collaborate with organizations that not only understand our philosophy and vision, but are also clear about making health and safety an absolute priority. APUFRAM International has a network of people living and working in the places we visit who understand the political climate, and know not to venture into particular places or situations that could pose a risk or threat to our group. Additionally, all ICPs the University works with have health and safety protocols that complement our expectations, the training we conduct for our leaders, and the resources we provide them. Vaccinations Per the CDC, all participants should be up to date on: Routine vaccines Hepatits A Hepatits B Malaria Typhoid Thank you for considering a donation to Global Public Health-Honduras. Your tax-deductible donation is a valuable investment in a learning experience that many Boston College students will carry with them for the rest of their lives. Donate Online Visit the Online Giving Form Enter your information; for the field "I wish to make my gift to:” select Global Public Health-Honduras. If you are sponsoring a certain student, please select "In honor of a BC student," and include their name and year. Click "Submit Gift" Mail a Check Global Public Health-Honduras Boston College, Office of Campus Ministry McElroy Commons 233 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 If your corporation matches donations, please enclose the appropriate forms. The Global Public Health-Honduras program, under the umbrella of the Trustees of Boston College, is a non-profit 501(c)3 with a federal tax exemption number of 04-2103545. Thomas Chiles Professor and Deluca Chair of Biology Vice Provost for Research and Academic Planning Higgins Hall 414 (617) 552-0840 Carly Anderson Campus Minister, 4Boston McElroy 123 (617) 552-4829 Ryan Heffernan Associate Director, Campus Ministry McElroy 117 (617) 552-3170 Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College