Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Campus & Community : Arts & Culture Arts & Culture In the heart of the city known as the Live Music Capital of the World, The University of Texas at Austin offers a dizzying array of arts and culture opportunities. Creativity, expression and artistic exploration thrive on our campus, with the bright and exciting pulse of Austin coursing through it. You can check out a world-famous comedian at Bass Concert Hall, watch your roommate star in a Brockett Theatre production, join a student dance troupe, wander over to the Blanton to check out the latest exhibit, or head downtown to catch a show in a historic Austin venue — all in a day. Whether you're pursuing a degree in fine and performing arts or interested in art, music, theatre and dance outside of class, this is the place for you. Texas Performing Arts All year long, Texas Performing Arts offers a diverse, eclectic season of music, theatre, dance and conversation. Learn more KUTX KUTX offers "The Austin Music Experience," featuring fresh, cutting-edge music, alongside iconic songs and established artists who continue to inspire. Learn more Arts and Culture Student Organizations Consider joining Hook 'Em Arts, CANVAS, ArTex, or one of the dozens of other student organizations devoted to arts and culture. Or start an organization of your own! Learn more Landmarks UT Austin's incredible public art program, developing a cohesive collection of public art from a curatorial perspective. Learn more Shakespeare at Winedale Dedicated to bringing Shakespeare to life through performance, Shakespeare at Winedale is a year-round program for students and community members alike. Learn more Exhibition Spaces From museums and galleries to residence halls and courtyards, art is everywhere at UT Austin. Blanton Museum of Art Courtyard Gallery Art Galleries at Black Studies (AGBS) at UT Harry Ransom Center Residence Hall Museums Visual Arts Center Performance Spaces There are hundreds of performances held on our campus every year — something for everyone. B. Iden Payne Theatre Bass Concert Hall Bates Recital Hall Cactus Cafe McCullough Theatre Oscar G. Brockett Theatre Latest Tweets KUTX 98.9 KUTX Rock the Park returns this Friday! Mueller & KUTX are excited to return to the amphitheater at Mueller Lake Park,… https://t.co/0MMU0jvjN9 10 hs ago Reply2 Retweet Star KUTX 98.9 KUTX On June 15th, @JoeJacksonMusic is performing at the @ParamountAustin and tickets are on sale RIGHT NOW! Ticket Lin… https://t.co/WeflIwui6K 11 hs ago Reply2 Retweet Star UT Theatre and Dance uttad “Creativity is inventing, experimenting, growing, taking risks, breaking rules, making mistakes, and having fun.” -… https://t.co/c30xfLx2sc 12 hs ago Reply2 Retweet Star KUTX 98.9 KUTX TOMORROW performing live at the @ParamountAustin it’s @NekoCase! Grab your tickets while you can! Ticket link:… https://t.co/xlE6NfhFiI 13 hs ago Reply2 Retweet StarView all tweets Upcoming Events Saturday June 11 | 8 p.m. Rupi Kaur Bass Concert Hall, Performing Arts Center (PAC) Sunday June 12 | 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Zip ST.ART Program Art Building (ART) Wednesday June 15 | 8 p.m. Puscifer Bass Concert Hall, Performing Arts Center (PAC) Monday June 20 | 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. ST.ART Educator Retreat Art Building (ART) View all events Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022