Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Emeritus College Emeritus College Welcome to the Clemson University Emeritus College. Please use our website to explore the many ways that Clemson’s dynamic and illustrious contingent of emeritus faculty continue to serve the University while enjoying a rich and engaged retirement. The decades of service to Clemson students, South Carolina and the nation have imbued Clemson emeriti with dedication and an appetite for continuing involvement. I am proud to serve as the Director of the Emeritus College! Dr. Debbie Jackson, Professor Emerita Director, Emeritus College COVID-19 Updates and Resources Emeritus College News and Events DEA And Fellows Nominations are now open!! EC Speakers’ Bureau: Special Interests EC Speakers’ Bureau: Science and Technology EC Speakers’ Bureau: Business EC Speakers’ Bureau: Arts and Humanities To keep up with Emeritus College news and updates, check out the blog. For upcoming Emeritus College happenings and events, visit our events page. Life After Retirement Clemson University emeritus faculty are busy with many interesting and purposeful activities after dedicating many years to the University. In many cases, this life stage is filled with meaningful and important work, and the CU Emeritus College web is a perfect place to inform others about “Life After Retirement”. Click here to read more about Life After Retirement and see what Clemson Emeriti are up to! Distinguished Emeriti Award This year's Distinguished Emeriti Award was presented to Mr. Charlie White and Dr. John Morse. To read more, click here. The Kenelly-Voss Distinguished Emeriti Award will recognize an outstanding emeritus whose contributions to academia, the University, the community and mankind have continued beyond retirement. The award will be presented annually at Emeritus Day. Click here to view a list of past award recipients. To nominate someone for this prestigious award, click here. I. Dwaine Eubanks Emeritus College Fellows Many emeritus faculty members steadily render valuable service to the Emeritus College and to Clemson University without compensation. The Emeritus College has long needed a mechanism for acknowledging the value of those contributions and to provide a way to recognize those stalwarts at Emeritus College events. The designation of Emeritus College Fellow has been created to honor those individuals. To nominate someone as a Fellow, click here. Emeritus Award for Community Service This award was established by the Emeritus College Advisory Board to recognize emeritus faculty members who provide extraordinary service to the community or their professions outside the university and Emeritus College. This year's Emeritus Award for Community Service was presented to Dr. Vic Shelburne. To read more, click here. To nominate someone for this award, click here. Emeritus Award for Research and Scholarship 2020 Emeritus Award for Research and Scholarship recipients were Dr. David Bodde and Dr. Stephen Hedetniemi. To read more, click here. This award was established by the Emeritus College Advisory Board to recognize emeritus faculty members who continue to produce extraordinary research and scholarship, either in their discipline or in a new field. The award will be presented in even-numbered years. To nominate someone for this award, click here. Mentoring International Students The Emeritus College provides emeriti faculty the opportunity to be a mentor in the CIS program. The College is currently in need of CIS mentors for the spring, summer, and Fall semesters. Now is a great time for interested emeriti to volunteer. The program helps international graduate students improve their English speaking communication skills and learn about the American culture. All international graduate students may participate in the program but the majority of the students participate to improve their fluency sufficiently to pass the Clemson English Speaking Proficiency (CESP) test. It is a one-on-one mentoring program in which the emeriti faculty meet with the student weekly for about one hour. The program is flexible in that the student and mentor decide on the time and place to meet. The mentor and student design the program according to the student’s needs or expectations. The CIS program has been very successful. The program fills a very real university and the students appreciate the one-on-one interaction with emeriti who have had long careers as university faculty. If you are interested in volunteering for this program contact Adolph Beyerlein, Chair of the Emeritus College Curriculum Committee at albrl@g.clemson.edu or cell 864-643-9047. Volunteers Needed for CESP/CIS Emeriti are needed to help grade the CESP (Clemson English Speaking Proficient) test the first of each semester. This test assesses international graduate students’ readiness to serve as TA’s in the classroom. Emeriti are also needed to work one-on-one with international students through the Conversation with International Students (CIS) program. This requires about an hour each week and is a most rewarding undertaking. Download program brochure for more information. To participate in either of these programs, contact Adolph Beyerlein, Chair of the Emeritus College Curriculum Committee at albrl@g.clemson.edu or cell 864-643-9047. Emeritus Parking Decal Parking decals for the current academic year should be ordered by mid-June to ensure uninterrupted parking privileges; however, the decal may be requested anytime throughout the year. Click here to download the emeritus parking application. Return the application to Parking Services (address in upper left corner). The decal will be mailed to your home address. Emeritus College Gallery Who would have imagined a world-class art gallery in the heart of Clemson’s CAT Building in Pendleton? Currently, the Emeritus College walls display 22 works by seven artists with more to come. Read more about the gallery on the Emeritus College blog! Professor Emerita Named National Fellow Click here for the full story Professor Emeritus Receives Distinguished Fellow Recognition Click here for the full story Professor Emeritus and Dean Receives Two Honors from ACPA Click here for the full story Emeritus College News and Events DEA And Fellows Nominations are now open!! Professor Emeritus Named Distinguished Fellow Professor Emerita Receives National Fellow Award Shelburne Receives Emeritus Award for Community Service Emeritus Day 2021-A Great Time Was Had By All! Emeritus Professor Receives International Recognition! Site maintained by: Creative Services Upcoming Events » View full calendar Give to the Emeritus College Guidebook for Retirement Newsletters Donor/Exhibitor Honor Roll Faculty Directory In Memoriam Home About Us Faculty Roles Membership Eubanks Fellows Speakers' Bureau Scholarships Donate Contact Us Emeritus College on Instagram Follow the Emeritus College on Instagram! Related Links AROHE OLLI at CU Faculty Senate GRAD 360° Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram