Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Academic Life Student Life Campus Tour Life at the GSD This guide holds the wisdom of many students from over the years, organized into three parts. The first is a tour of the GSD campus, the second explores student life opportunities, and the final part outlines the basics of academic life at the GSD. If you're a prospective student, this guide illustrates what it might be like to study at the GSD. If you're a new student, you'll find helpful information about GSD services and how to navigate life in Cambridge. You can print or download a copy of the 2020 Student Guide. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to contact us. Campus Tour Student Life Academic Life 1 Campus Tour The Campus The GSD campus includes Gund Hall, the Sackler Building, 7 Sumner Road, and “The Houses” on Kirkland Street and Sumner Road. Studio Desks If you’re in a studio-based program, you’ll get a desk in “the trays.” The basic layout for desk spaces is a cubicle with two desks one for you and one for your “buttmate.” From minimal to cluttered, your GSD desk space is your space to do with as you wish. Desk arrangements include a computer-height surface and an under-desk storage locker, castered and topped with a cutting mat. Loeb Library The Frances Loeb Library houses a book and journal collection of some 300,000 volumes and hundreds of thousands of individual images as well as original materials related to the fields of architecture, landscape architecture, and urban design and planning. In addition, hundreds of web-based resources are available. The library is home to the service desk, the Visual Collections, the Materials Collections, and Special Collections. There are several other Harvard libraries the GSD students have complete access to as well. Chauhaus In many ways the Chauhaus is the heart of the GSD. Much more than a school cafeteria, it is visited by virtually everyone at the GSD and used for informal meetings. Just behind the Chauhaus, there’s an outdoor courtyard called The Back Yard where students study, eat lunch, and hang out. Student Exhibition Space In addition to participating in more formal exhibition events, students may apply to exhibit work in the two student-run exhibition spaces, Kirkland Gallery and Second Floor Exhibition Wall. Kirkland Gallery is student-run and occupies two rooms on the first floor of 40 Kirkland house. All GSD students are invited to submit proposals for exhibitions and other events. In addition to work produced at the GSD, the gallery welcomes projects pursued elsewhere–even things you make in your free time. Photo Lab This space, complete with a collection of equipment, is available for students to photograph their models and other work. Fabrication Lab Experimentation with materials, prototyping, testing, physical mock-ups, and the exploration of new fabrication processes are integral parts of design culture at the GSD. In support of these pursuits, the Fabrication Lab features a wide range of equipment, include most of the campus’ laser cutters. The Shop Store provides convenient access to consumable materials and tools for use in the Fab Lab. The core of the Fab Lab is the Project Room, it’s open 24-hours and acts as the primary workspace. However, when working with certain materials you’ll find yourself needing to utilize the Wood Shop, the Metal Shop, or the Machine Shop. The robotic devices that are also available in the machine shop allow for unprecedented flexibility in terms of application and programming. We have a larger six-axis robotic manipulator, an ABB IRB 4400L-30 as well as a smaller six-axis robot, an ABB IRB 140. Because of the flexible nature of industrial robots, programming files can be generated in a variety of ways for applications with an endless number of tools. For rapid prototyping purposes, there are three types of 3D printing machines available that will allow complex physical geometry to be realized–especially valuable for stuff that can’t be created with traditional techniques or tools. Notes & References Gund Hall — Designed by Australian architect and GSD graduate John Andrews, Gund Hall opened in 1972. The dramatic facade and extensive glass surfaces make an eloquent statement about the design excellence and professional creativity for which the school is known. Gund Hall offers students a stimulating environment in which to work, including studio and office areas for approximately 500 students and more than 100 faculty and staff. Exterior of Gund Hall. Sackler Building — The Sackler Building at 485 Broadway was once part of the Harvard Art Museums and houses a GSD studio space, workroom, faculty offices, common space, and classrooms. 7 Sumner Road — This houses the Academic Finance Office, various admin offices, and a few classrooms. The Houses — Three wood frame houses that are home to the MDes and DDes program offices, research labs, faculty offices, the Center for Green Buildings and cities, and Kirkland Gallery. The Trays — The central studio space extends through five levels under a stepped, clear-span roof that admits natural light and provides views of Boston. Buttmate — A colloquial term used to describe the relationship shared by two students sitting back-to-back in their shared cubicle. Web Based — HOLLIS, RefWorks, and the Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals are available to all GSD students in their entirety. Service Desk — The staff at the service desk can help you make the most of Harvard’s wealth of library resources. Stop by or email with any questions or to set up an appointment. Visual Collections — The Visual Collections include digital images, 35mm slides, videos, DVDs, maps, plans, photographs, GSD public lecture recordings, and equipment to facilitate digitization projects. Materials Collections — The Materials Collection allows for tactile browsing and is organized into five material families: biocomposites, synthetic polymers, metals, minerals, and ceramics. Holdings range from new, innovative materials to those found in the everyday constructed environment. By foregrounding material composition and functional traits, the collection allows students to rethink conventional application and promote material experimentation in design practice. Special Collection — The special collections department includes the Rare Book Collection, the Le Corbusier Research Collection, and the Special Collections archive of original materials. other Harvard libraries — Lamont Library, The Harry Widener Memorial Library, Pusey Library, Houghton Library, Fine Arts Library, Fung Library, Cabot Science Library, and Law School Library. Photo Credit: “Widener Library” by Caroline Culler is licensed under CC. Chauhaus — The Chauhaus’ sunny, corner café is a convenient and tasteful stop for hearty but simple fare to fuel you for the day. The made-to-order deli pairs perfectly with homemade soups and chilis and an extensive salad bar. The Back Yard — When the weather is nice, you’ll see the yard used for basketball, volleyball, picnics; as an exhibition area for class projects; and as the setting for commencement ceremonies. Second Floor Exhibition Wall — Run by the Student Forum, Second Floor Exhibition Wall provides an experimental space on which to display works in progress, recent collaborations, competition submissions, and other creative content that could have otherwise gone unseen. submit proposals — In addition to work produced at the GSD, the gallery welcomes projects pursued elsewhere–even things you make in your free time. Past exhibitors have hung work from the ceiling, others have designed large-scale interactive installations. See their website for proposal instructions. collection of equipment — Lights, light stands, backdrops, screens, and umbrellas are available. laser cutters — These machines typically require 2-D CAD software and drawing plot files in ACAD, Illustrator, or Rhino. All of the laser cutters can cut paper products and thin wood veneers. Shop Store — Chip board and acrylic sheets cut to laser bed size, polystyrene foam, expanding urethane glue, bondene, and wood glue are available. Project Room — Equipped with work tables, a hot wire foam cutter, sink, and spray booth, the Project Room also has temporary storage space. Wood Shop — A variety of traditional woodworking hand and power tools are available, including a SawStop table saw, drill press, jointer/planer, band saws, pedestal sanders, miter saw, and panel saw. Metal Shop — Equipment in the Metal Shop includes a horizontal band saw, compound shear/break/roller, abrasive saw, sandblaster, MIG welder, and a spot welder. Machine Shop — Equipped with two metalworking machines, a lathe, and two CNC machine tools. The first, a CNC Prototrak knee mill, that allows the machining of metals in addition to softer materials. Second, an Onsrud high-speed three-axis router equipped with dual work surfaces and vacuum beds, capable of surface milling and routing materials, such as foam, modeling board, wood products, plastics, and aluminum. A student operating a drill press in the Wood Shop. ABB IRB 4400L-30 — Primarily used for abrasive waterjet cutting, but is also capable of routing and a variety of other applications that could include painting, additive manufacturing, or whatever you can dream up. ABB IRB 140 — Primarily used for material handling, routing, process experiments, and automation prototypes 3D printing machines — A few ZCorp starch-based 3-D printers, a Stratasys Dimension ABS fused deposition modeler, and a high-resolution Objet PolyJet printer. 2 Student Life Testing Student Groups Student groups are an essential part of life at the GSD. Each year, newly formed groups join long-standing groups in contributing to the academic and social discourse of the school. There are more than 50 student groups at the GSD. What’s great about our groups is that they’re not easily categorized–cultural and social groups spark rigorous academic discussions, advocacy and academic groups know how to party, and a publication or exhibition can do both in an instant. Everything kicks off at the Student Group Fair. Publications The GSD produces several publications on various themes, including Harvard Design Magazine, The Incidents, New Geographies, Platform, and Studio Reports. In addition to these, there are a number of student-produced publications, including Open Letters. Events Student groups sponsor a variety of academic and social events throughout the year. Popular gatherings include Beer n’ Dogs, the Halloween Party, Thanksgiving Dinner, and the GSD’s quasi prom, the Beaux Arts Ball. Arts at Harvard The Office for the Arts at Harvard offers several programs available to GSD students, like Learning from Performers, Arts First, and the Public Art Program. Other programs centered around jazz, dance, and ceramics are also available. Museums In addition to museums around the city, Harvard’s museums includeThe Harvard Art Museums, Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology, Harvard Museum of Natural History, The Harvard Semitic Museum, The Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments, and the Harvard Film Archive. Notes & References cultural — Cultural groups include Africa GSD, Asia GSD, Canada GSD, China GSD, Club MEdiNA, Greece GSD, GSD West, India GSD, Japan GSD, Korea GSD, Latin GSD, Spain GSD, and Space GSD. social — Social groups include Beer & Dogs, BODY, GSD Bees, GSD Christian Fellowship, GSD Soccer Club, GSD Table Tennis, GSDance, GSDJ, JewSD, Travel GSD, and Yoga GSD. advocacy — Advocacy groups include AASU: African American Student Union, Project Link, Queers in Design, Women in Design, and Working GSD. academic — Academic groups include ASLA Student Chapter, Code without Frontiers, GSD History & Philosophy Launch, HUPO: Harvard Urban Planning Organization, Real Estate Development Club, Urban Metabolism Group, and xDesign. publication or exhibition — Publication, Exhibition, and Multimedia groups include; Animation GSD, Backpocket Projects, exhibitionWall, Film GSD, Harvard Journal of Real Estate Kirkland gallery, Newsroom, Open Letter, Poetry GSD, Projection GSD, and Video Game GSD. Student Group Fair — At the beginning of the year, students can connect with existing groups and generate ideas for new groups at the Student Group Fair. Harvard Design Magazine — There are two issues published every year, each focusing on a different theme. The Incidents — This new book series chronicles uncommon events held at the GSD, bringing the energy of lectures, dialogues, and performances to its pages. New Geographies — This annual journal produced by doctoral candidates in the New Geographies lab, presents the geographic as a design paradigm through critical essays and projects. Platform — An annual volume that offers a curated view of the past year at the GSD. It includes work from studios, theses, and other research projects, as a record of the school’s major events and activities. A companion exhibition coincides with its release. Studio Reports — This publication catalogs the research and pedagogy of select option studios. select option studios . Students contribute content to and participate in the production of each report. Open Letters — This print experiment tests the epistolary form as a device for generating conversations about architecture and design. Very Vary Veri (VVV) — This student-edited journal draws on all of Harvard’s professional schools for diverse perspective on design from law, finance, government, real estate, public health, education, and beyond. Beer n' Dogs — Nearly every Friday, second-year MLA students host this crucial event in Chauhaus. Good for student morale, bad for digestion. Halloween Party — Forget studio and really put your creativity to work. First by participating in the poster contest, then by building yourself a spectacular costume. The Halloween Party is consistently the most well-attended student event of the year. Thanksgiving Dinner — On the Monday before Thanksgiving, the GSD hosts a traditional Thanksgiving dinner for students. We dim the auditorium lights, pass the gravy, and enjoy a special evening of kinship. Beaux Arts Ball — Each spring students pitch theme ideas in the form of a poster contest for the Beaux Arts Ball, and a favorite is chosen by popular vote. Attire, music, and drinks are outrageously classy. Learning from Performers — The program sponsors visits from a range of professional performers who work directly with students in workshops and master classes. Past artists have included Alec Baldwin, Laura Linney, and Barenaked Ladies. Arts First — This annual four-day student arts festival is the culmination of a year’s worth of arts activity and features the work of over 2,000 students in more than 100 concerts, plays, dance performances, and exhibitions. Public Art Program — This program commissions emerging or established artists to develop new work for Harvard’s public spaces. It offers students opportunities to engage visiting artists, join field trips to Boston-area projects, and create work. jazz — Bringing masters to Harvard, the Jazz Program connects artists to students through clinics, rehearsals, and performances. dance — The Dance Program offers semester-long dance technique classes, guest artist workshops, as well as choreography and performance opportunities for both new and experienced dancers. ceramics — The Ceramics Program offers noncredit courses, interdisciplinary symposia, and access to a studio. Students can register for any course or event, or enjoy a weekend drop-in option. museums around the city — Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, Institute of Contemporary Art, and the The Museum of Fine Arts. Photo Credit: “IMG_7192” by Laura Blanchard is licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 The Harvard Art Museums — Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, Institute for Contemporary Art, and the The Museum of Fine Arts. Harvard Film Archive — Housed just down the street in the Carpenter Center, the HFA is one of the largest university-based collections in existence. They hold daily public screenings that are free for GSD students. The HFA frequently invites filmmakers to discuss their work and engage with attendees. Hear from Our Students Within MDE, I can bring in skills that are creative, critical, analytical, technical, and non-technical, and this gives me the freedom and flexibility to wear different hats and enter career paths as a designer who has the ability to understand problems and people. Nupur Gurjar (MDE ’21) Graduate studies have expanded my own conception of what architecture is, what architecture can be, and what architecture can do. And I think that that's pretty powerful. Selwyn Bachus (MArch II ’22) Everyone at the GSD is like a drop of water converging into Gund Hall, which is like an ocean generously absorbing provocative thoughts, debates, and even conflicts. I would like to be that drop of water pushing forward the waves of landscape architecture. Xinyi Chen (MLA II ’21) International Student Life The Harvard International Office can help you decipher the complexities of immigration, working in the US, and adjusting to living as an international student. In addition to a special orientation, the HIO offers weekly sessions international students and their families. The office also keeps a list of enrolled international students who have volunteered to be a resource for other students. Family Life Through playgroups, outings, and potluck dinners, many families have found the Harvard Students Spouses and Partners Association (HSSPA) to be a nice resource for building a community. Check out our Resources for Partners and Families page or visit the HSSPA website for more information. Spiritual Life The Harvard Divinity School, just across the street from the GSD, organizes a wide variety of religious and spiritual activity for the Harvard community. They host speakers from various religious traditions, hold occasional retreats, and can refer seekers to many retreat centers and spiritual organizations around New England. Private Prayer Space, Harvard Chaplains, and weekly service are also available. Wellness Graduate school is an intense and rigorous experience that can be stressful or overwhelming at times. We are committed to the mental and physical well being of all GSD students and offer a number of resources and activities free of charge. Join us for yoga sessions twice a week, pop-up massage and reiki sessions throughout the year, or for one of our weekly meditation sessions. A number of other services are provided on an individual basis through the Center for Wellness and Harvard Health Services. We also offer a number of fitness opportunities. Enroll in a Harvard gym membership for complete access to all of the campus athletic facilities or join one of the graduate club sports teams. Working as a Student There are many ways to earn money as a student. From teaching opportunities to research, to work-study, take some time to explore your options. Where to Live Live as close to the GSD as possible. GSD students have a lot of late nights and early mornings, and winter weather can make relying on public transportation tricky. The closer you are to your apartment, the more likely you are to stop at home for a quick meal, shower, or nap. We recommend trying to find a place within a 15-minute walk of Gund. Harvard housing is available to a limited number of GSD students, but renting will give you the the greatest variety of options in terms of location, price, roommates, and pets. You can search online or try to find a room from another GSD student. Check out our guide to living in the vibrant city of Cambridge for tips on shopping, entertainment, and more. Getting Around the City The MBTA is your answer to public transportation – the subway and bus are the easiest way to get around the city year round. Biking is another great option, just be sure to gear up. There are a number of advantages to owning a car, but parking can be a challenge. Harvard Transportation is free to students, but of course serving a narrower radius than public transit. Otherwise, Uber, Lyft, Zipcar, and taxis are all widely available in the area. Notes & References HSSPA — Harvard Student Spouses and Partners Association provides opportunities to families to build a network of friends during their time in the Boston area. Private Prayer Space — Reserve the GSD Quiet Space any time. Harvard Chaplains — Harvard’s interfaith coalition represents 25 of the world’s traditions. They offer programs, worship events, and confidential counsel. Photo Credit: “Memorial Church” by Marco Zanferrari is licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 weekly service — Wednesday noon service is held each week at Harvard Divinity School. Each service is hosted by a different group, and all are welcome to pray or meditate together across boundaries of traditions. Sunday service is held each week at Memorial Church. Photo Credit: “Memorial Church” by Marco Zanferrari is licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 yoga sessions — GSD offers free sessions twice a week. Open to students of all levels, these hour-long classes provide a meditative environment for focus, strengthening, and healing. massage and reiki — Pop-up massages and reiki sessions happen sporadically throughout the academic year. They are announced by email and are free of charge. meditation — Free, weekly meditation sessions are held at the Center for Wellness. Practice is eclectic and includes breadth meditation, body scan, and more. The CFW also hosts a quarterly, four-week meditation series called “Calming the Mind, Opening the Heart.” Center for Wellness — The CFW offers holistic services, innovative programs, and community outreach. Individual treatments include acupuncture, massage, Reiki, and shiatsu. Programs include movement, exercise, yoga, pilates, and safety classes. Photo Credit: Justin Ide/Harvard Staff Photographer Harvard Health Services — HUHS provides high-quality, comprehensive health care–including primary care, pediatric care, and mental health counseling–24 hours a day, 365 days a year. A patient advocate is also available to assist with any health-related questions or concerns. athletic facilities — Facilities include the Hemenway Gymnasium, the Malkin Athletic Center, the Quadrangle Recreational Athletic Center (there are tennis courts on the roof!), the Sailing Center, the Weld Boathouse, the Blodgett Pool, the Bright Hockey Center, and the Gordon Indoor Track and Tennis Center. club sports — There are over 20 club sports teams at Harvard, visit gocrimson.com for details. teaching opportunities — Teach the Career Discovery program, work as a teaching assistant to faculty, participate in the Community Service Fellowship Program, or teach the English for Design Course. research — Become a Research Assistant and conduct research on a specific research account for a faculty member. work-study — Go through the financial aid application process to be considered for federal work-study. 15-Minute Walk — This is roughly from Central Square to the southeast, Inman Square to the east, Kirkland and Beacon Streets to the Northeast, and a bit below Porter Square to the North. Harvard Housing — The GSD receives an allotment of dorm rooms in GSAS dorms. Students must apply for dorms and affiliated housing in the spring. Dorms are convenient for those wanting a furnished place and a meal plan, but most GSD students move into independently leased apartments after a year in the dorms. The Harvard Housing Office provides apartment and roommate listings. Pictured: Peabody Terrace Roommates — Get them! Studio and one-bedroom apartments are over $1,000 per month. Photo Credit: “Beacon Street” by Tim Sackton is licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 Search Online — Try boston.craigslist.org first. Keep an eye out for places with heat included (frigid winters can make for pricey gas bills). Some listings have an associated broker’s fee that needs to be paid by the tenant. If you’re apartment hunting from afar, this can be worth it. The fee is typically one-half of a full month’s rent. On top of this, most landlords ask for the first and last month’s rent in addition to a security deposit (usually one month’s rent) when you sign a lease. Find a room from another GSD student — People are constantly moving in and out, so you may be able to adopt a lease from someone who is graduating or studying abroad. Make sure to join the “Harvard GSD Housing” group on Facebook. Subway — Boston has the oldest underground subway system in the United States! There are 5 subway lines – Red, Green, Blue, Orange, and Silver. The Red Line is the line that runs through the parts of Cambridge and Somerville close to the GSD. Bus — At least in Cambridge, the bus system is often more direct than the subway. Photo Credit: “MBTA 71 trolleybus leaves Harvard” by Adam E. Moreira is licensed under CC BY-SA-3.0 Biking — You can get almost anywhere you want, even in Boston, in under 30 minutes. Most of Cambridge is pretty flat, so it’s not too strenuous. Gear Up — A helmet, a blinking taillight, and a headlight for your bicycle are safety necessities. Invest in a strong lock–bicycles do get stolen. parking — Look for apartments that offer off-street parking, otherwise you’ll need to get a parking permit. On-campus, there’s a lottery for student parking permits. Harvard Transportation — Harvard Shuttle buses, the M2 Longwood Medical Shuttle, the Harvard Accessible Van Service, and the Evening Van Service are all available to GSD students. Photo Credit: “Harvard Shuttle Eldorado EZ-Rider II MAX” by Jason Lawrence is licensed under CC BY 2.0 Where To Live Davis Square , equal parts Cambridge and Somerville, is a bit far from Gund, buts students living here make it work by cycling and taking the T. A mix of trendy new restaurants and working-class diners surround the historic Somerville Theatre. Photo Credit: "Somerville Theater" by Steven Isaacson is licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 Commute 35 min 12 min 13 min Porter Square is another great option for GSD students looking for an affordable place to live. It's a five-to-ten minute bike rider away or one T stop outbound from Harvard Square. What it lacks in charm, it makes up for in a convenient grocery store, hardware store, gyms, etc.–and the fantastic Japanese food at the Shops at Porter. Commute 20 min 7 min 10 min Kirkland Crossing is the intersection of Kirkland/Washington Street and Beacon Street. It's densely populated with GSD students due to its relative affordability and proximity to the GSD. Commute 8 min 3 min 5 min Union Square is just up Kirkland/Washington Street. It's not on the T, but buses and bicycles make the commute quite quick. It's got a good selection of music venues, restaurants, and specialty grocery stores. Photo Credit: "Union Square Farmer's Market" by Todd Van Hoosear is licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 Commute 20 min 8 min 10 min Harvard Square is very close to the GSD, but its proximity to campus also makes for a high cost of living. Restaurants, bars, chain stores, and local boutiques fill the square’s commercial spaces. Students make up the majority of the surrounding neighborhood’s inhabitants, while tourists usually populate the square itself. Commute 5 min 2 min 0 min Inman Square is home to a number of bars and restaurants that are worth the short walk from Gund. Inman's diverse resident population of locals, families, and students lends it a neighborhood feel. Photo Credit: "Cambridge - Inman Square" by Niklas Tenhaef is licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 Commute 15 min 7 min 8 min Central Square lies one T stop inbound from Harvard Square and anchors a cluster of live venues that host dance parties and rock shows, not to mention a plethora of bars, eateries, and clubs. Photo Credit: "Central Square from above" by Eric Kilby is licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 Commute 20 min 8 min 10 min Kendall Square is MIT turf, but a number of GSD students live around there, too. For the past decade, MIT and the CIty of Cambridge have invested heavily in making this area a destinatio Commute 35 min 12 min 17 min Davis Square Porter Square Kirkland Crossing Union Square Harvard Square Inman Square Central Square Kendall Square 3 Academic Life Desk Crit for STU-1402 Excavating Space and Nature in Tokyo Instructors: Toru Mitani and Manu Chiba Core Studio The studio method is central to design education at the GSD. Students enrolled in studio-based programs take one studio course each semester and it will meet 2-3 times a week. If you don’t come from a design background, studio is probably unlike any other class you’ve ever taken. A studio is composed of a dozen or so students under one critic’s tutelage. Student desks are organized by studio and are located in Gund above the lobby on the five terraced levels known as “the trays.” They are home-base for desk crits. Throughout the semester students will share their work and get feedback during pinups, midterm reviews, and final reviews. Option Studio After all core studio courses are completed, students begin to takeoption studios. There are about 40 offered each year, one is offered abroad. Students indicate their preferences in a lottery system after option studio presentations. Visiting critics and site visits are highlights of the semester. Courses While studio courses are a large component of the GSD’s professional degree programs, nonstudio coursework constitutes the academic backbone of the school and the basis for research-based programs. Professional degree candidates also take required and elective nonstudio courses. Formats include lectures, seminars, and workshops and cover an extraordinary range of research concerns and methodologies. Some operate on an ordinary liberal arts model (assigned readings, lectures, class discussions, student presentations, term papers, etc.), while others are more like ministudios with field trips, semester-long projects, and final reviews. Students are even able to take nonstudio courses outside of the GSD. Thesis and Research The thesis is an opportunity for students to pursue a project that is researched and developed independently. The completion of a thesis is required of all MArch I and MArch I AP students and is optional for all other studio-based programs. Students of any degree program may also pursue a nonthesis, faculty-advised independent research project. Notes & References the trays — The central studio space extends through five levels under a stepped, clear-span roof that admits natural light and provides views toward Boston. desk crits — Desk crits are one-on-one project critiques given by an instructor at a student’s desk during studio time. You can learn a tremendous amount amount not only from your instructor but also from your peers by observing how the same problem may be attacked in many different ways. pinups — These are informal presentations that take periodically during studio. Students plot their work in progress and present before their classmates and sometimes other studios. Pinups give students a chance to observe peer approaches to the same project and also to practice the art of presentation. midterm reviews — More formal than pinups, these presentations are given to guest critics, which can include people from within the GSD, as well as outside professionals and academics. final reviews — The final review is the culmination of studio work during the semester. It is a chance for students to present the context and rationale for their projects and to make a case for their merits. Final reviews are typically held as all-day events and are open to visitors. Schedules are posted on the GSD website a few weeks beforehand. option studios — These studios address a range of issues topics and contexts. Students may event take option studios hosted by departments outside their own. abroad — Past locations have included Los Angeles, Paris, Tokyo, Rotterdam, and Basel. option studio presentations — Before classes begin, studio critics present plans for their upcoming option studio. These presentaitons provide a glimpse into the critics’ interests and work and are attended by everyone in the school. The studio lottery take place immediately following the presentations. visiting critics — Students have a special opportunity to work with prominent practitioners who often serve as visiting critics. site visits — Site visits vary widely depending on the project and sometimes take place abroad. outside of the GSD — Students may cross-register into courses by other Harvard schools (HKS, HSPH, HLS), MIT, and Tufts. Pictured: Harvard Law School. Featured Portraits Tanuja Mishra (MDes '17) Explore Student Portraits → Oct 4, 2017 Daniel Widis (MLA '16) Explore Student Portraits → Mar 22, 2017 Dana McKinney (MArch I/MUP '17) Explore Student Portraits → May 11, 2017 Digital Media Workshops This series of workshops is for developing skills and techniques for the studio environment. The modeling software programs that are mostly used in studios are taught, including Rhino, 3ds Max, Catia, and Digital Project. Morespecialized applications are also taught in the context of seminars or lectures. English for Design This course is offered to first-year students wanting to improve their comfort with the English language with an emphasis on design discourse at the GSD. Research/Writing Support Whether you are still improving your English or a native speaker, everyone can use extra help in the area of research, writing, and even mapping. Research Support Services has a variety of integrated opportunities to help define and refine your academic narrative. J-Term During the first two weeks in January, a set of free workshops and non-credited courses are offered as an opportunity for students, staff, and faculty to hone skills, learn new ones, or just have fun. Courses are taught for the GSD community, by the GSD community.. Speakers & Workshops The GSD sponsors a lively public lecture series that provides prominent designers, artists, and thinkers with an opportunity to present their work. The series of exhibitions and events transform the lobby, library, and many areas of the school into places to discover new knowledge and work. Research Centers and Design Labs With a tradition of groundbreaking innovations, research at the GSD forms interdisciplinary bridges to the university and beyond. Interests usually fit into three general areas of focus–technology; urbanism and landscape; and history, theory, and design–and take shape through a blend of sponsored research initiatives, design labs, affiliated centers and institutes at Harvard, and faculty-led projects. Thus, the wealth of opportunities to collaborate with both faculty and students is founded upon the integration of design education and research. These programs provide a lot of research jobs for students, check out project websites for Research Assistant positions. Notes & References specialized applications — Programs such as Ecotect, Maxmsp, Rhinoscript, and Grasshopper. Instructors may be professors, practitioners, or students from one of the GSD programs, who are assigned to give two-to-four sessions on a software package. writing — Writing support is available to all GSD students wishing to address general concerns or guidance on a specific written draft. In addition, students are encouraged to schedule sessions with reference staff who can assist with locating resources for class assignments as well as thesis research. mapping — Mapping Teaching Assistants hold regular office hours, providing one-on-one and group instruction of GIS. by the GSD community — Even students are able to propose a course or workshop to teach. public lecture series — Poster for the Fall 2017 Public Lecture Series. research initiatives — Key research initiatives include the Aga Khan Program of Islamic Architecture, Health and Places Initiative, metaLAB, Real Estate Academic Initiative, South America Project, Transforming Urban Transports, and Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure. design labs — Design labs include: Energy, Environments & Design Lab, Geometry Lab, Material Processes and Systems Group (MaPS), New Geographies, Responsive Environments and Artifacts, Social Agency Lab, and Urban Theory Lab. centers and institutes at Harvard — Research centers include the Harvard Center for Green Buildings and Cities and the Joint Center for Housing Studies. Hear from Our Students People here are nice! I love my classmates, I sing their praises on a daily basis and to anyone who asks! It is truly a supportive and collaborative learning environment. I feel so lucky to be a part of this community. Courtney Sharpe My peers are extremely passionate and take their studies seriously, but they’re also really fun people to work and hang out with. Turns out, the school is very artsy and design-focused. Paige Peltzer One of my favorite parts of the GSD is the lectures/speakers/exhibitions. These reflect and produce a critical part of the broader interdisciplinary conversation going on throughout the building and the wider professional worlds. Jacob Koch Join the next generation of leaders advancing design's global cause. The Harvard Graduate School of Design offers a dynamic setting for the exchange of ideas across the fields of architecture, landscape architecture, urban planning and design, and design studies – united in the pursuit of a more just, coherent, and beautiful world. Apply to the GSD Explore Our Programs Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26