Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Date June 3 – 5 Time All Day Event by: McDonough School of Business Alumni Location Georgetown University Audience Alumni Contact Georgetown University Alumni Association Register Download event details Add to Google Calendar Share Facebook Twitter Email Alumni Georgetown University Reunion Weekend There is no place like home and there is no place like Georgetown… as absence makes our Hoya hearts grow fonder! Reunion Weekend 2022 is a wonderful chance to rediscover what made Georgetown “home” for you and to renew your lifelong connection to this special place. We are thrilled to welcome back all members of the undergraduate classes of 1972, 1977, 1982, 1987, 1992, 1997, 2002, 2007, 2012, and 2017, as well as our Magis alumni (Class of 1969 and beyond). Come home to the Hilltop! Alumni, friends, and family members will gather on campus for three days of celebration, learning, and camaraderie. It’s a fantastic opportunity to reconnect with friends and classmates and see how your Georgetown has grown into the university it is today. Weekend events include class parties, campus tours, activities for Hoyas of all ages, and a variety of fascinating panels featuring some of our most prominent alumni as well as beloved faculty. Excited for your reunion? Let us know you’re planning to come home to Georgetown! Add your name to let your classmates know you’re saving the date for reunion. Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog