Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Ignatian Family Teach-In Home Service Immersion Ignatian Family Teach-In The Ignatian Family Teach-In for Justice is the largest annual Catholic social justice gathering in the United States. Coordinated by the Ignatian Solidarity Network, the Teach-In brings together Jesuit colleges, high schools, parishes, and other partners to “learn, reflect, pray, network, and advocate together.” What We Do Learn Reflect Pray Network Advocate Overview Join Donate Contact The events of 2020 emphasize the need to gather as members of a community committed to social justice for continued education and action. During the weekend of Oct. 24-26, take a stand and join BC at the Ignatian Family Teach-in for Justice – the largest annual Catholic social justice gathering in the United States. With this year's theme of “Prophetic Resilience: Breaking Down, Building Up,” we are challenged to break down biases and unfair privileges so that we can build up our individual and collective capacities for healing and justice. You can find more information about IFTJ 2020 on the Ignatian Solidarity Network website. History The Ignatian Family Teach-In for Justice was formally started in 2004. Informal gatherings had taken place previously in Columbus, Georgia at the School of the America Vigil/Protest. Jesuit students, faculty and Alumni went to Ft. Benning and attended all the events sponsored by the SOA Watch. The idea of gathering all the Jesuit Schools together was the idea of Robert Holstein of California. He had protested and spent six months in jail for “crossing the line.” He was a former Jesuit of the California Province and gathered some of his friends together to launch the Ignatian Solidarity Network which sponsors this Teach-in among other conferences and workshops throughout the year. It caught fire and soon many Jesuit colleges and universities, high schools, and other apostolates were attending the Teach-In. Many speakers addressed the assembly including Fr. Roy Bourgeois, the Maryknoll priest who started the vigil/protest in 1990 to protest the murders of the Jesuits in El Salvador. Sr. Helen Prejean, Martin Sheen, Congressman Jim McGovern of Massachusetts, and student speakers from various schools also spoke. One of the major events was the Saturday night Mass that quickly attracted over 3,000 people including the Ignatian Family. The goal was to be heard in the halls of Congress to stop the injustices committed by the taxpayer-funded training of international military in the ways of war. Many of its graduates were found to be the perpetrators of murders, disappearances, and chaos in their home countries. The murders of the six Jesuits, their housekeeper, and her daughter at the Jesuit University in El Salvador were trained at this SOA or trained by those who had attended the school. Their murders catalyzed a growing movement for justice, particularly within the Jesuit world. The Ignatian Solidarity Network has an interactive history of the SOA and Teach-In. Register for IFTJ by October 11, 2020. Registration includes a fee of $40 which includes full access to IFTJ conferencing and programming. Campus Ministry will also provide meals on both days. To follow social distancing guidelines, participants will be placed in small groups that will meet in person on Saturday and Sunday to participate in the conference together and engage in small group discussion. Commitments: Available for the conference on Saturday, Oct. 24, 12 p.m. - 8 p.m. and Sunday Oct. 25, 12 p.m. - 9 p.m. Available for 2 pre-conference meetings - 1 zoom meeting with all participants on Tuesday, Oct. 13 at 8:30 p.m. and 1 in-person meeting with your small group. Available for 2 post-conference meetings - 1 zoom meeting with all participants on Tuesday, Nov. 10 at 8:30 p.m. and 1 in-person meeting with your small group. Thank you for considering a donation to the Ignatian Family Teach-In. Your tax-deductible donation is a valuable investment in a learning experience that many Boston College students will carry with them for the rest of their lives. Donate Online Visit the Online Giving Form Enter your information; for the field "I wish to make my gift to:” select Ignatian Family Teach-In. If you are sponsoring a certain student, please select "In honor of a BC student," and include their name and year. Click "Submit Gift" Mail a Check Ignatian Family Teach-In Boston College, Office of Campus Ministry McElroy Commons 233 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 If your corporation matches donations, please enclose the appropriate forms. Ignatian Family Teach-In, under the umbrella of the Trustees of Boston College, is a non-profit 501(c)3 with a federal tax exemption number of 04-2103545. Ryan Heffernan Associate Director of Campus Ministry hefferra@bc.edu Ally Liedtke Campus Ministry Graduate Assistant liedtke@bc.edu Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College