Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE LABORATORY MEDICINE AND PATHOLOGY PATHOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PATH 498 Undergraduate Thesis (*, max. 35) Elective. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 498 PATH 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 35) Elective. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 499 PATH 501 Pathology Proseminars (1, max. 9) Small group discussions and presentations by students based on critical reading of original papers, or on concurrent seminars, in many areas of experimental pathology and medicine. Topic varies by quarter. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 501 PATH 502 Inflammation and Repair (2) Lecture-seminar; a seminar course dealing with an in-depth examination of the processes involved in inflammation and repair. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: even years. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 502 PATH 507 Introduction to Pathology Research (2) Current developments and approaches to investigation of the molecular and cellular basis of disease. Members of the Pathology faculty present and discuss their own research projects. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 507 PATH 510 Introduction to Pathology Methods (3) Laboratory course designed to introduce graduate students to the fundamentals of image analysis, histology, histopathology, post mortem evaluation, surgical pathology, and other methods used to investigate disease etiology, progression, and manifestation in humans and in animal models. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 510 PATH 511 Topics in Experimental Pathology (1-2, max. 10) Focus on areas of research relevant to experimental pathology. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 511 PATH 512 Molecular Basis of Disease: Death and Repair (1.5) First in a series designed to introduce students to medically important diseases and physiologic processes and experimental approaches to elucidating the cellular processes underlying these diseases. Covers basic cell/tissue processes that underlie normal homeostasis and most disease and, including apoptosis, necrosis, stem cells, inflammation, granulation tissue, tissue regeneration, repair and fibrosis. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 512 PATH 513 Mechanisms of Neurodegeneration (1.5) Introduction to the cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie neurodegenerative diseases, including introduction to the normal development and anatomy of the central nervous system, a review of epidemiologic, genetic, and clinical research tools used in the investigation of these diseases, and a systematic review of the major neurodegenerative diseases. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 513 PATH 516 Molecular Basis of Human Genetic Disease (3) Introduces the underlying mechanisms in human genetic disorders, ranging from the single nucleotide, through genomic instability, and chromosomal rearrangements. Includes tissue and organ specific examples of the manner in which these disorders provide insights into human biology. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 516 PATH 517 The Biology and Pathology of Aging (3/4) Matt Kaeberlein Surveys the biology and pathologies of the aging phenomena in multiple species and at multiple organismal levels from whole animals to molecules. Prerequisite: coursework in biology, biochemistry, molecular biology, and genetics. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 517 PATH 518 Emerging Topics in Cancer (2) Eleanor Y Chen, Rosana Risques, Shreeram Akilesh Science and translational advances in cancer and therapeutics, related to recent major technological progress in cancer research. Explores how knowledge of cancer genetics as well as new molecular discoveries are translated to clinical management and treatment options. Prerequisite: undergraduates by permission of instructor. ; recommended: introductory biology and/or genetics. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 518 PATH 520 Experimental Pathology Seminar (1) Review of current research in various areas of experimental pathology by members of the department and visiting scientists. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 520 PATH 521 Anatomy and Autopsy (1) Students view an autopsy, and learn how autopsy can diagnose disease, determine cause of death, and improve patient care. Requirements include orientation session, autopsy, and a clinical-autopsy conference. Participants must be free at least one morning per week to attend an autopsy at UWMC. Prerequisite: UW medical students only. Instructors: Fligner Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 521 PATH 530 Human Cytogenetics (*, max. 4) Sources and methods of preparation and identification of human chromosomes. Molecular structure and mapping of chromosomes. Human cytogenetic pathology: karyotype-phenotype interactions, chromosome breakage, and cancer cytogenetics. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Disteche Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 530 PATH 535 Innate Immunity and Immunopathology (1.5) Ian N. Crispe, Kelly Smith Explores the relationship between the innate immune system and disease processes, using a student-led seminar format. Students analyze, present, and critique primary research literature, and use the knowledge gained to develop a sophisticated insight into the mechanisms of immunopathology. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 535 PATH 540 Translational Research Topics (1) Horwitz First and second year students in the M.D./Ph.D. program present and discuss current papers form the biomedical literature in journal club format, and describe their own research in seminar format. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 540 PATH 544 General and Systemic Pathology ([2-3]-, max. 5) Bill Mahoney Basic pathologic processes that underlie disease, including cell alterations, genetic and developmental pathology, environmental pathology, neoplasia, immunopathology, inflammation, infection, and systemic diseases. Correlates gross, functional, and biochemical alterations. For first-year dental students and graduate students. Requires reasonable grounding in biological and chemical sciences. Prerequisite: for nondental students: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 544 PATH 550 Mechanisms of Disease (3) Conrad-Liles, Rendi Examines the mechanisms of inflammation, cell injury, death, repair, immunity, and neoplasia as well as diseases of various organ systems. Systems covered include the cardiovascular, pulmonary, gastrointestinal, neurologic, endocrine, and genitourinary/renal systems. Topics presented through lecture, primary literature, and small-group discussion. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 550 PATH 551 Experimental and Molecular Pathology (2-5, max. 20) Introduction to experimental pathology. A tutorial course designed to introduce a graduate student (medical, dental) or senior undergraduate to selected methods and problems through literature surveys and/or laboratory experience. Exploration of causes at the cellular and molecular levels in the study of disease is emphasized. Prerequisite: Pathology PhD student; permission of instructor Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 551 PATH 555 Environmental Pathology (3) Modern morphologic, cell biological, and molecular approaches to environmental disease associated with exposure/predisposition. Lectures, seminar discussion, and student presentations. Prerequisite: PATH 410 or PATH 444 or HUBIO 520. Instructors: Monnat Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 555 PATH 558 Integrative Omics (1.5) Jessica E Young, Jennifer L. Davis Explores how to integrate genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic approaches with state-of-the-art genetic engineering strategies to uncover a systems-level understanding of pathway interactions that regulate disease pathogenesis and complex phenotypes. Recommended: undergraduate biology or cellular and molecular biology. Offered: jointly with MOLMED 558; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 558 PATH 560 Molecular Analysis of Human Disease (*, max. 10) Review and discussion of contemporary research on molecular basis of human disease. Focus on mutational mechanisms, genetic instability, AIDS, and cancer. Students participate in weekly group discussion and work with faculty to select, develop, and present discussion topic. Prerequisite: medical, graduate, or professional standing and permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 560 PATH 580 Mitochondria and Metabolism in the Pathogenesis of Human Disease (1.5) Hawkins, Tian Explores the fundamentals of mitochondrial biology, bioenergetics, and cellular metabolism. Includes topical lectures and literature reviews introducing students to advanced metabolic concepts within the context of human disease. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 580 PATH 590 Patient-Centered Translational Research (1) Horwitz MSTP students preparing to return to clerkships are partnered with a senior MD/PhD medical student or house office, preview the medical or surgical ward team environment, select a patient-focused translation research topic based on their clinical experience, and prepare a plan for refreshing introductory clinical skills. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 590 PATH 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: Pathology PhD student. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 600 PATH 667 P-Renal Pathology Laboratory (*, max. 6) Laboratory elective for third- and fourth-year medical students. Read current literature, review various renal biopsies and urine sediments, and read standard texts prior to a weekly topic-oriented conference. All students earn 1 credit for one-hour seminar per week. May be taken concurrently with MED 693. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 667 PATH 675 P-Diagnostic Pathology Clerkship - Missoula (4, max. 24) Medical student participation in microscopic examination, laboratory specimen processing and on occasion aid surgeons, endoscopists or radiologists with immediate evaluation of specimens. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 675 PATH 676 P-Diagnostic Pathology Clerkship - Spokane (*, max. 24) Medical student participation in dissection and study of autopsy and surgical pathology cases at Sacred Heart Medical Center in Spokane. Can be taken for either two or four weeks. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 676 PATH 677 P-Neuropathology Clerkship - HMC (*, max. 16) Includes participation in dissection and study of neuropathology cases. Students work up cases under senior staff including dissection, microscopic examination, and literature review. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 677 PATH 678 P-Diagnostic Pathology Clerkship - Medical Examiner's Office, Alaska (*, max. 24) Medical student participation in dissection and study of autopsy and forensic pathology cases at the Anchorage Medical Examiner's Office. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 678 PATH 680 P-Diagnostic Pathology Clerkship - University of Washington Medical Center (*, max. 24) Medical student participation in dissection and study of autopsy and surgical pathology cases. Cases worked up under senior staff, including dissection, microscopic examination, and literature review. Attendance at pathology conferences and seminars expected. Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year medical student standing. Instructors: Swanson View course details in MyPlan: PATH 680 PATH 681 P-Diagnostic Pathology Clerkship - Harborview Medical Center (*, max. 24) View course details in MyPlan: PATH 681 PATH 682 P-Diagnostic Pathology Clerkship - Veterans' Administration Hospital (*, max. 24) View course details in MyPlan: PATH 682 PATH 683 P-Forensic Pathology Clerkship - Medical Examiner's Office (*, max. 24) View course details in MyPlan: PATH 683 PATH 686 P-Diagnostic Pathology Clerkship (4/8) Lisa K Koch Provides medical students an opportunity to improve on gross and microscopic diagnosis, and to experience what it is like to be a pathology resident at the University of Washington. Participants pair with a trainee and faculty mentors to serve as a source of information and guidance. Students attend resident didactics, tumor boards, daily signouts, discussion groups, and personalized slide sessions Prerequisite: completion of the UW School of Medicine foundations and patient care phases. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 686 PATH 688 P-Diagnostic Pathology Clerkship - Madigan Army Medical Center (*, max. 24) View course details in MyPlan: PATH 688 PATH 697 P-Pathology Special Electives (*, max. 24) By specific arrangement, students have clerkships, externships, or research opportunities at institutions other than the University of Washington. Prospective students obtain special assignment forms from the dean's office at least one month before advance registration. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 697 PATH 699 P-WWAMI Pathology Special Electives (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships may be available at institutions, other than the University of Washington, located within the WWAMI region. Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 699 PATH 700 Master's Thesis (*-) View course details in MyPlan: PATH 700 PATH 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Prerequisite: Pathology PhD student. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PATH 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022