Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Materials & Borrowing >> List of Services List of Services Keyword Search Service Category - Any -Borrowing ResourcesInstructional SupportPublishing & ScholarshipResearch HelpRooms & SpacesWorkshops & Training A Academic Publishing Support Tools and expertise to support you in disseminating your work and maximizing its impact, including training in open access. Accessibility Accessible facilities, assistive technologies, and other support for students with disabilities. Ask a Librarian Ask a Librarian provides FSU students, faculty, and staff with virtual reference services through live chat and text messaging whenever the library is open. B Borrowing Materials Members of the FSU community are granted borrowing privileges with their current FSU Card. See the FSU Card Center if you do not have a current FSU Card. Borrowing Technology Everything from laptops and cameras to phone chargers and projectors. C Career Center Library Visit the Career Center to browse over a thousand books and print resources located in our Career Library or use our online catalog, Career Key, to search by specific topic. You can find additional information by visiting the links below. Citation Management We can help you keep track of your sources and give credit where credit is due. Copyright Support Our copyright experts have specialized skills for your fair use, rights, and publishing questions. Course Reserve Information for Faculty FSU faculty and Graduate Teaching Assistants can request for items to be placed on course reserves using our online form. Any items that need to be on reserve for the first week of the semester should be submitted at least 3 weeks prior to the... Course Reserve Information for Students Course Reserves Information Reserve items may be checked out at a library service desk for short-term use in the library. D Data Management Meet grant and ethics requirements by developing a plan for your data. DigiNole (Digital Repository) Our open online repository for sharing, preserving, citing, and exploring FSU's digital library and scholarly output. Digital Humanities Support Training on digital humanities tools, method and platforms, advising on project development, and collaborating on research projects. G GEOSET Studios GEOSET is an audio and video production studio housed within Dirac Science Library. It offers creative services and consultations to faculty, staff, and students at FSU. Government Documents Access to material from local, national, and international governments, past and present. I Instruction Services Customized library instruction sessions on a variety of topics to support information literacy specific to disciplines. Interlibrary Loan Access to items from libraries worldwide. L Library Express Delivery Service (LEDS) Faculty and graduate students with an appointment can have items delivered directly to offices across campus. Library Materials Request In-Library Pick Up is now available! Here’s what you need to know. O OER & Affordable Textbook Initiative Increasing awareness for the textbook affordability movement and promoting adoption of Open Educational Resources Off Campus Access Access to our resources when off-campus. P Printing, Scanning, and Copying Printers are provided on the ground, main, and second floors of Strozier and Dirac Library. Printing requires the use of an FSU card with a positive balance. Page includes visitor instructions for printing. R Research Consultations Customized help for your library and research questions. Research Data Services Get support and collaborate with FSU Libraries in areas related to data analysis & visualization, digital humanities, GIS, and research data management. Research Guides Subject-specific resource guides to help you locate the information you need. Research Help Research help at the libraries includes face to face and virtual. Search the Research Guides for specific areas of study, contact a librarian who specializes in your area, or use chat S Software & Technology Support One-on-one support and workshops to help you use software and other technology effectively. Study Rooms Reservable and first-come-first-served work spaces for individuals and teams. Subject Librarians Expert librarians are available to help with research, support classroom instruction, offer workshops, and build the Libraries' collections. T Testing Center Drop-Off Scholars Commons serves as a drop off and pick up location for course exams scanning for the Office of Testing and Assessment. Strozier Library Exam Scanning Services @ Scholars Commons Tours Tours of the first floor of Strozier are available. Please arrange tours in advance by contacting Beth Boatright at eboatright@fsu.edu. Tutorials Check out our collection of videos and tutorials below to get started on your research and learn more about the valuable services offered by your library system. Tutoring One-on-one support for writing and language learning, plus late-night group sessions for Chemistry, Math, Physics, and more. U UBorrow UBorrow allows you to request materials directly from participating libraries within Florida’s state university and college systems. V Virtual Lab Access to specialized software through campus virtual desktops. W Workshops We offer free and open workshops on a variety of topics designed to assist the FSU community in developing skills in research, information, and digital tools. I Need To... Find an Article Find Books and More... Find a Journal Find a Database Cite a Resource Access Course Reserves Find Tutoring Information Get Help My Account and Renewals About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!