Green Purchasing Awards Nominations Now Open Search Business Services Home Penn Home Home About Economic Inclusion Doing Business with Penn Sustainable Purchasing Making Purchases Policies & Forms FAQs Buying at PennHow to purchase at Penn Enter Penn Marketplace Supplier Search Quick Links BEN Helps COVID-19 PPE Sourcing Guidance Amazon Business Ben Buys Ben's Attic Card Programs Catering@Penn Commodity Matrix Procurement Events Travel & Expense Management News & Information Ben's Attic Spring Cleaning - Friday, April 15, 2022 If you have office supplies, lab supplies, electronics (other than computers) or miscellaneous supplies or equipment that you are not using... Read more... New Product and Service Information from Ricoh in the Supplier Showcase - Friday, March 25, 2022 New Products and Services Information from Ricoh in the Supplier Showcase.... Read more... ThermoFisher Scientific Has Updated Their Page in The Supplier Showcase - Tuesday, February 15, 2022 New Supplier Showcase Updates From ThermoFisher Scientific... Read more... 2022 Nominations Open for Penn Supplier Diversity Impact Award - January 20, 2022 The Call for Nominations is now open for the 2022 Penn Supplier Diversity Impact Award... Read more... More News Contracts & Sourcing To support the University's contracting and sourcing needs, Procurement Services' Strategic Sourcing team partners with Schools and Centers to develop and execute contracts; manage and support project sourcing efforts; and oversee supplier management efforts. The team is organized by category, addressing each of the following spend areas: Information Technology Research & Life Sciences Print and Interactive Communications Events and Professional Services Independent Contractors and Office Supplies Facilities and Operations Supplier Showcase PreviousNext View All Contact Copyright Privacy Disclaimer Report accessibility issues and get help © The University of Pennsylvania We welcome your feedback on our services. Click the IdeaWeb logo to share your thoughts.