Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Arts & Sciences About Areas of Study Research Scholarships Students Resources Career Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take a Quick Glance into the College Learn about academic programs and advising, community service, student engagement, research opportunities, internships and more... Come See Us in Scates Hall College offices are located in Scates Hall by the Student Plaza and fountain. Choose your direction today. Humanities. Social Sciences. Natural Sciences. The College of Arts and Sciences. Arts and Sciences Students Asking Questions. Setting Goals. Preparing for the Future. Superior Advisors and Faculty Mentors Our advisors and faculty will help you explore your interests and create a plan for SUCCESS! Before this day comes Meet with a Career Specialist for advising and job opportunities in your field PreviousNext Take Action Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree Offering Master's and Doctoral Degrees Community Engagement Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home CAS Where creativity and innovation begins CAS E-Files Newsletter E-Files Newsletter is the online news source for the College of Arts & Sciences. Updated each semester, it provides college and department events, faculty kudos, student highlights, updates on alumni, staff accomplishments, announcements and more. Visit the E-Files Newsletter. College of Arts & Sciences Accolades This site is dedicated to the exceptional faculty in the college and their research. It is a collection of college and university awards, publications, research, creative works, service, and other scholarly endeavors that bring recognition to the University of Memphis, supports the mission of the college, and has a profound impact on the surrounding community and the world. Visit the Accolades Website. About the College The largest college within the UofM, the College of Arts & Sciences is a place where research and innovation thrive, as undergraduate students and graduate students alike immerse themselves in a culture that puts students first. The College of Arts & Sciences is divided into three divisions: Humanities, Natural Sciences and Social Sciences, each offering a wide range of programs. It is comprised of 24 academic units, the ROTC, and multiple research centers, including two Centers of Excellence. Memphis, Tennessee, provides a striking backdrop-visually, historically, academically and culturally. In this diverse, multi-cultural setting, students live, learn and work beside some of the world’s most respected educators and leaders in their fields. The College also offers several opportunities for pursuit of a degree on the UofM Lambuth campus in Jackson, Tennessee. Explore Our Degree Programs > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.