Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Singapore | Art walk of Jalan Besar: Refuge for Strangers by OH! Events Past Event CAA Singapore | Art walk of Jalan Besar: Refuge for Strangers by OH! Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo October 23, 2021 12:20 PM - 1:30 PM Asia/Singapore Off-campus Take a walk around Jalan Besar with fellow alumni. Join us for an art walk of Jalan Besar: Refuge for Strangers by OH! Open House on Saturday 23 October 3:30pm. The art walk is conducted by Amelia Abdullahsani, who volunteers her weekends with OH! Open House. Join us on this mini art walk that grapples with the strangeness of Jalan Besar, this intangible other-ness we may never truly understand. Explore the different ways of approaching, understanding and gazing at Jalan Besar from the outside. Discover the stories that built this refuge for strangers. Cost: S$22.50 per person Advisories: This tour lasts 90 minutes with no breaks. It is not wheelchair-accessible. The show must go on, rain or shine. Due to mature themes and content, there is an age restriction. Only for participants age 16 and above. To buy tickets, please click HERE (pick the 12:20pm slot for Columbia alumni). Click here for more information about Jalan Besar: Refuge for Strangers. Click here for more information about OH! Open House. Contact Information Columbia Singapore [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close