Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » Faculty and Campus Partners » Call for Proposals Set Navigation title in component Honors Seminar Call for Proposals Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Honors Seminar Call for Proposals Getting Started We welcome proposals to teach University Honors seminar courses during the 2022-23 academic year and for seminars with study tours during Fall 2023. These courses are an integral part of the University Honors Program (UHP), which is comprised of students in the top 7% of UC undergraduates across colleges and disciplines. Proposal deadline is Monday, September 27, 2021. UHP Vision To develop students into global citizen scholars who lead innovative efforts toward solving the world’s complex problems. Honors seminars are critical to achieving this vision. UHP Mission The UHP is committed to offering students an individualized, student-centered approach to a meaningful undergraduate experience. To that end, we are dedicated to: Promoting activities that lead students to discover their passions and enhance their gifts and talents. Coaching students to purposefully engage in experiential learning opportunities and reflection to maximize and integrate their learning. Fostering a community that prioritizes inclusion, transformational personal development, civic participation, and global responsibility. Unique Nature UHP honors seminars need to be both intellectually rigorous courses and representative of the holistic mission of the program. The UHP is quite different from most honors colleges and programs. In other programs, high-achieving students are typically required to complete advanced courses and maintain a certain GPA. The UHP furthers this with a strong focus on experience-based learning and reflection, as well as on the individual student’s goals and aspirations. Next Lives Here We encourage proposals that connect to UC’s strategic direction, Next Lives Here (e.g., innovation, inclusion, urban futures, urban health). Learn more about Next Lives Here. Questions? Debbie Brawn at debbie.brawn@uc.edu or 556-6226. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top