Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Breadcrumb Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Policy The University of California, Riverside is committed to ensuring the privacy and accuracy of your confidential information to the extent possible, subject to provisions of state and federal law. Other than as required by laws that guarantee public access to certain types of information, or in response to subpoenas or other legal instruments that authorize access, personally-identifiable information is not actively shared. In particular, we do not re-distribute or sell personal information collected on our web servers. Information Collected UCR websites may collect personal information such as name, address, e-mail address, telephone number(s), and/or educational interests. Such personal information may be requested by us for research, public service or teaching programs, or for administrative purposes. Additional personal information, such as credit card account information, may be requested for purchases or enrollment purposes. Web servers typically collect, at least temporarily, the following information: Internet Protocol (IP) address of computer being used; web pages requested; referring web page; browser used; date and time. UCR may collect statistics identifying particular IP addresses from which our websites are accessed. Use of Collected Information UCR may use personal information collected from websites for the purpose of future communication back to online enrollees, in order to keep you informed of such activities as campus programs, symposia and/or special events, but only if you are provided the opportunity to opt out of that type of use. UCR may use browser-IP-address information and anonymous-browser history to report information about site accesses and for statistical purposes. This information is generally used to improve Web presentation and utilization. The campus also may use IP address information for troubleshooting purposes. Some UCR online activity sites may use "cookies" in order to deliver web content specific to individual users' interests or to keep track of online purchasing transactions. Sensitive personal information is not stored within cookies. Distribution of Collected Information UCR will not disclose, without your consent, personal information collected about you, except for certain explicit circumstances in which disclosure is required by law. UCR will not distribute or sell personal information to third-party organizations. Individual Choice Individuals who wish to use methods other than online enrollment may submit requests by e-mail or U.S. mail addressed to the UC Riverside organization responsible for the website. Access to Your Own Information Questions regarding users' rights to review, modify or delete their previously provided personal information should be directed to the campus organization to which they provided the information. Any disputes will be resolved under existing records regulations applicable to UCR. Main Campus Site The main campus site (i.e. www.ucr.edu) in addition to general logs, also collects usage information the links on its pages. This information is only used in an aggregate form to determine how resources are used. Web Accessibility We are committed to ensuring that UC Riverside websites are accessible to everyone. We strive to ensure our Web content adheres to accessibility guidelines embodied in the UC Information Technology Accessibility policy, the campus World Wide Web Standards policy (PDF) and the UC Web accessibility guidelines. We are continually striving to improve the experience for all of our visitors. If you have any questions or suggestions regarding the accessibility of any UC Riverside Web content, please contact us at webaccessbility@ucr.edu. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel