COVID-19 UH Updates skip to Main Content Home About For Media UH Home Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr RSS Youtube Academic Research People Community Athletics Administrative By Campus dropdown menu column 1 Hawaiʻi Hilo Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi column 2 Leeward Mānoa Maui West Oʻahu Windward Submit Photos: Congratulations spring 2022 UH grads! UH News » Academic News » Photos: Congratulations spring 2022… May 10, 2022 UH News University of Hawaiʻi campuses across the state celebrated its graduates in a variety of ways this spring. UH West Oʻahu launched the commencement season on May 7 and the ceremonies conclude with different types of celebrations on May 14. View photos from past commencement celebrations Keep checking back on the story as more images are added from the other UH campuses. All the photos can be viewed on the UH spring 2022 commencement album in Flickr. View photos from Hawaiʻi Community College Honolulu Community College Kapiʻolani Community College Kauaʻi Community College Leeward Community College Windward Community College UH Hilo UH Mānoa UH Maui College UH West Oʻahu Hawaiʻi CC Hawaiʻi CC honored its graduates at two ceremonies—an in-person ceremony at the Edith Kanakaʻole Tennis Stadium on May 13 and a drive-through ceremony at Hawaiʻi CC–Pālamanui on May 14. For more photos go to the campus commencement Flickr album for Hilo, and Pālamanui, photo stream or UH Flickr album. Honolulu CC Honolulu CC celebrated commencement with an in-person ceremony on May 13, 2022 at the Waikīkī Shell. For more photos go to the UH Flickr album. Kapiʻolani CC Kapiʻolani CC celebrated its graduates on May 13, 2022 with a walk-through ceremony held on campus. For more photos go to the campus photo album or the UH Flickr album. Kauaʻi CC Kauaʻi CC celebrated spring commencement ceremonies on campus, May 13, 2022. For more photos go to the UH Flickr album. Leeward CC Leeward CC held a drive-through ceremony on May 13. 2022 at the Puʻuloa campus for fall 2021 graduates and spring, summer and fall 2022 candidates. For more photos go to the campus commencement Flickr album or UH Flickr album. Windward CC Windward CC celebrates its graduates at an in-person ceremony at the Palikū Theatre on May 13, 2022 For more photos go to the UH Flickr album. UH Hilo UH Hilo celebrated commencement with an in-person ceremony on May 14, 2022 at the Edith Kanakaʻole Multipurpose Stadium. For more photos go to UH Hilo Stories or the UH Flickr album. UH Mānoa UH Mānoa held three in-person ceremonies for spring 2022 candidates, as well as 2021 and 2020 graduates, at the Stan Sheriff Center, May 13–14, 2022. For more photos go to the UH Flickr album. UH Maui College UH Maui College celebrated its graduates on May 14, 2022 with an in-person ceremony held on the campus. For more photos go to the campus Facebook page or UH Flickr album. UH West Oʻahu UH West Oʻahu celebrated its graduates with two spring 2022 ceremonies on May 7, 2022. For more photos go to the campus commencement Flickr album for the morning ceremony, afternoon ceremony or UH Flickr album. Related Posts: President’s May 2020 highlights and updates Windward CC celebrates commencement with caravan Photos: Congratulations spring 2021 UH grads! commencementcommencement photosHawaii Community CollegeHonolulu Community CollegeKapiolani Community CollegeKauai Community CollegeLeeward Community CollegeUH Community CollegesUH HiloUH ManoaUH Maui CollegeUH SystemUH West OahuWindward Community College Share This Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Email Universities UH Mānoa UH Hilo UH West Oʻahu Community Colleges Hawaiʻi CC Honolulu CC Kapiʻolani CC Kauaʻi CC Leeward CC UH Maui College Windward CC Most Popular 1st gen Shidler alumna endows $100K scholarship to honor parents Hurricane season ‘22 could see few cyclones, forecasters say Army ROTC Warrior battalion competes with world’s best Featured Video Congratulations spring 2022 UH grads! previous post: U.S. Sec. of Education to address Kapiʻolani CC graduates next post: UH Mānoa ranks in world’s top 1% for teaching, financial sustainability, more Watch the latest news of the University of Hawaiʻi View News Videos 2444 Dole Street Honolulu, HI 96822 An equal opportunity/ affirmative action institution Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy copyright © 2022 University of Hawaiʻi Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr YouTube RSS Contact UH If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request. Get Adobe Acrobat Reader Calendar Directory Emergency Information MyUH Work at UH By Categorydropdown menu Academic Research People Community Athletics Administrative Videos By Campusdropdown menu Hawaiʻi Hilo Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Mānoa Maui West Oʻahu Windward Back To Top Search Submit