Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Financial Aid Financial Aid right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Timeline Apply for Aid right arrow down arrow FAFSA Tax Year Dependency Status Reapplying Selective Service & Drug Penalties Canceled Verification Costs right arrow down arrow Aid Budget & Limits Estimating Your Bill Residency for Tuition Purposes Circumstances Affecting Eligibility right arrow down arrow Enrollment Part-Time Enrollment Aid Recalculation right arrow down arrow Return of Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress right arrow down arrow Policy Details Improving Progress Available Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Information Search for Scholarships Scholarship Limits Cincinnatus right arrow down arrow Renewal FAQs Marian Spencer Scholarship UC National Outreach Award Graduate Student Aid right arrow down arrow Graduate Funding PharmD Students Grants Work-Study right arrow down arrow Info for Students right arrow down arrow Federal Work-Study Job Search Non-Work-Study Job Search On-Campus Employment Off-Campus Employment Info for Employers right arrow down arrow Community Work-Study for Non-UC Employers Loans right arrow down arrow Interest Rates Loan Fees Federal Maximums Federal Parent PLUS Loan right arrow down arrow Option if Denied Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan right arrow down arrow Option if Denied Alternative Loans right arrow down arrow PLUS v Alt Loan Self Certification Managing My Aid right arrow down arrow Check My Aid Year-Round Aid Distribution right arrow down arrow Co-op UC Online Billing & Refunds Summer Aid Options Study Abroad right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Loan Management right arrow down arrow Loan Process & Promissory Note right arrow down arrow Direct Loan Entrance Counseling Direct Loan MPN Loan Posting to Bill Debt Management Repayment Cincinnatus Community Service right arrow down arrow Service Limits Scholarship Service Resources Scholarship Service Reporting Tools & Resources right arrow down arrow Live Like a Student right arrow down arrow Good Spending Habits Personal Budgeting Appeals right arrow down arrow Special Circumstances Bearcat Emergency Grant Academic Progress right arrow down arrow Winter Break Notice Bearcat Food Pantry Net Price Calculator Rights & Responsibilities Consumer Information Forms & Publications Helpful Links Financial Aid A-Z Contact Us right arrow down arrow Related Offices Home » About UC » Student Financial Aid » HEERF Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) This page details federal funding provided UC for students related to COVID-19. Additional information on the university's response to coronavirus is also available at our university COVID-19 resource page. CARES Act Funding/HEERF I The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) was signed into law on March 27, 2020. Approval of $2.2 trillion in funding provided fast and direct economic aid to the American people negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Approximately $14 billion was given to the U.S. Department of Education (ED) Office of Postsecondary Education as the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF I). The University of Cincinnati signed and returned to the ED the Certification and Agreement and the assurance that the institution has used, or intends to use, no less than 50% of the funds received under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act to provide emergency financial assistance directly to students. Review appropriations and student awarding at the University of Cincinnati. CRRSAA Funding/HEERF II The Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II (HEERF II) was authorized by the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021 (CRRSAA), Public Law 116-260, signed into law on December 27, 2020. The CRRSAA authorizes $21.2 billion to higher education institutions to ensure learning continues for students during the COVID-19 pandemic. UC signed and returned to the U.S. Department of Education the Certification and Agreement form and the assurance that the institution has used, or intends to use, no less than 50% of the funds received under the CRRSAA to provide Federal Emergency Relief/HEERF grants to students. Review appropriations and student awarding at the University of Cincinnati. Updates will be made as awards are made. ARP Funding/HEERF III The American Rescue Plan (ARP) became law with the signing of the bill on March 11, 2021, the one year anniversary of declaring a U.S. public health emergency due to coronavirus. Within the Plan's provisions was an outline for what will become the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III (HEERF III). In response to the pandemic's significant hit to higher education, ARP authorizes $39.6 billion to higher education institutions to support college and university losses and assist students based on COVID-19 matters. The University of Cincinnati signed and returned to the U.S. Department of Education the Certification and Agreement form and the assurance that the institution has used or intends to use no less than the required amount of funds received under the ARP to provide Federal Emergency Relief/HEERF grants to students. Review appropriations and student awarding at UC. Updates will be made as awards are made. Quarterly Public Reporting Grantee institutions receiving HEERF awards publicly post certain grant information on the institution’s website as part of the reporting requirements. Grantees will post a report for every calendar quarter with the initial report for expenditures through the end of the calendar quarter September 30, 2020. September 30, 2020 December 31, 2020 (updated) December 31, 2020 (revised) December 31, 2020 (original) March 31, 2021 June 30, 2021 (updated) June 30, 2021 (original) September 30, 2021 December 31, 2021 March 31, 2021 Other Aid-Related Federal COVID Relief Measures In addition to awards made through HEERF, many students were aided by additional measures taken by the federal government during the coronavirus pandemic. Student Loan Emergency Relief Measures: Students and parent borrowers have payment forbearance, defaulted loan collection suspension, and 0% interest on U.S. Department of Education-held loans with the passing of the CARES Act and extensions made through executive action. This relief brings needed assistance to some borrowers struggling financially. Other borrowers are able to aid themselves financially by continuing loan payments to reduce their overall debt while gaining benefits of no interest accumulation. SNAP Benefit Extension: Students enrolled at least half-time and having a -0- EFC or eligible for state or federal work-study were given eligibility to apply for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits through the passing of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021. Emergency Broadband Benefit: Authorized in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021, this Federal Communications Commission (FCC) initiative provides qualifying households (including Federal Pell Grant recipients) discounts on internet service and a computer or tablet purchase. University of Cincinnati PO Box 210125 Cincinnati OH 45221-0125 513-556-1000 (One Stop) onestop@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati PO Box 210125 Cincinnati OH 45221-0125 513-556-1000 (One Stop) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top