Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today In This Section: EMPLOYMENT CIVILIAN PERSONNEL OFFICE The Civilian Personnel Office at the United States Air Force Academy is responsible for the oversight and direction of the personnel program for appropriated fund civilian employees. This includes the direction and administration of the labor-management relations and employee-management relations programs, affirmative employment programs, position management and classification, employee development and training, and injury and unemployment compensation. NAF POSITIONS To apply for non-appropriated fund (NAF) federal positions at the Academy please visit www.NAFJobs.org. Navigate to open positions tabs in the “All=Bases” search menu choose “Colorado/USAF Academy”. Applicant must create a profile and then apply for listed positions. Applications are only accepted online and you may lose consideration for a position if ALL the required documents are not provided. Applications will remain active for a period of 90 days. Satisfactory Background Investigation will be required. Upon tentative selection for employment, new hires will be required to supply one of the following documents (documents cannot be expired): Birth Certificate, Passport or Naturalization Card, Report of Birth abroad of U.S. Citizen, Citizenship Certificate or Report showing a previously verified citizenship (i.e., DD-214, SF-52). An Equal Opportunity Employer Find jobs at usajobs.gov for all Air Force Bases! CONTACT US Human Resources Office Community Center 5136 Eagle Drive (upper level) P: (719) 333-3425/26 F: (719) 333-2016 Hours Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and Wednesday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Civilian Personnel Office Community Center 5136 Eagle Drive (lower level) P: (719) 333-4363 Hours Monday to Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. (Walk-Ins) and Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday from 12:30 to 4 p.m. (Appointment Only) ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.