Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About Us About Us Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Information History People Virtual Tour Administration Employment Give to Rosenstiel School Mission Rosenstiel Award Contact Us Academic Departments Atmospheric Sciences Environmental Science and Policy Marine Biology and Ecology Marine Geosciences Ocean Sciences Research Centers Projects Publications Research Resources Seminars Students Undergraduate Studies Master of Professional Science Graduate Programs Student Directory Student Resources Apply News & Events Community & Giving Alumni Give to Rosenstiel Events Calendar Frontiers Newsletter Internships and Jobs Outreach Sea Secrets About Us Academic Departments Research Students News & Events Community & Giving Search About Us About Us Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Information History People Virtual Tour Administration Employment Give to Rosenstiel School Mission Rosenstiel Award Contact Us Academic Departments Atmospheric Sciences Environmental Science and Policy Marine Biology and Ecology Marine Geosciences Ocean Sciences Research Centers Projects Publications Research Resources Seminars Students Undergraduate Studies Master of Professional Science Graduate Programs Student Directory Student Resources Apply News & Events Community & Giving Alumni Give to Rosenstiel Events Calendar Frontiers Newsletter Internships and Jobs Outreach Sea Secrets Master of Professional Science Applications open through July 5th » Apply Now Master of Professional Science Applications open through July 5th » Apply Now Faculty Career Opportunities » Learn more Faculty Career Opportunities » Learn more Leading Earth System Science. Transforming Lives & Minds. » View Video Leading Earth System Science. Transforming Lives & Minds. » View Video Rosenstiel 75th Anniversary Leading Earth System Science. Transforming Lives & Minds. » View Video Dive Into Science Rosenstiel School Undergraduate and Graduate Magazine » Access here Dive Into Science Rosenstiel School Undergraduate and Graduate Magazine » Access here GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Virtual Tour Tour facilities, hear from faculty/outreach groups, & more! Virtual Tour Tour facilities, hear from faculty/outreach groups, & more! Undergraduate Programs With 6 majors and many specialty areas to choose from, our degree programs in marine science, meteorology, geology, oceanography, marine biology and ecology, and marine affairs will prepare you for an exciting environmental career. Graduate Programs We offer 6 Ph.D. and M.S. degree programs with unparalleled opportunities for innovative research and training alongside world-renowned experts. » List of Ph.D. Assistantships 2022 Master of Professional Science An innovative, hands-on graduate program with 14 degree tracks to prepare you for a career in today’s professional, environmental job market. People Meet the faculty, researchers and staff that make this one of the best marine and atmospheric research institutions in the nation. » Faculty Career Opportunities ROSENSTIEL NEWS & EVENTS IN THE NEWS Despite Dangers, More Immigrants Attempt Sea Crossings to US The Wall Street Journal La Niña, Loop Current and other weather factors put Florida in crosshairs of another active hurricane season Sun Sentinel Underwater photos highlight diversity of ocean life Billings Gazette National Geographic Explorer Ved Chirayath: Unearthing a world under the waves National Geographic U MIAMI ON: Helicopter Observation The Rosenstiel School’s one-of-a-kind flying scientific laboratory, the Helicopter Observation Platform, or HOP, is equipped with state-of-the-art technology to collect vital information about Earth’s environmental processes, including for climate and human health studies. The Center for Southeastern Tropical Advanced Remote Sensing (CSTARS) Launched in 2003, CSTARS provides the global scientific community with real-time, high-resolution satellite imagery for environmental monitoring of the Gulf of Mexico, Southeastern United States, northern South America, Central America and the Caribbean Basin. Department of Ocean Sciences The Ocean Sciences (OCE) department brings together the diversity of faculty and research programs to understand the ocean as a major Earth system. Department of Atmospheric Sciences (ATM) The department’s research facilities and faculty provide students with the education and training necessary to tackle today’s scientific challenges in atmospheric sciences. A diverse community performing world-class research in tropical meteorology, climate dynamics, atmospheric chemistry, and cloud & aerosol processes. Department of Marine Biology and Ecology (MBE) The department provides students with the tools, training and opportunities to pursue cross-disciplinary research and develop integrative thinking to expand our understanding of marine organisms and their interrelationships with the environment. Department of Marine Geosciences (MGS) Our educational mission is to provide high-quality undergraduate and graduate education in the classroom, field and laboratory with a goal of producing future geoscientists with the skills and training necessary to increase our understanding of the planet. F.G. Walton Smith The Rosentiel School’s state-of-the-art research catamaran, F.G. Walton Smith, is specially designed and equipped for research in tropical oceanography. Named in honor of the School’s founder, the 96-foot-long vessel’s shallow draft enables it to explore shallow environments areas such as reefs, mangroves, and grassbeds. Department of Environmental Science and Policy (EVR) The department offers a broad and interdisciplinary academic program that fosters critical thinking across disciplines with technology and innovation at the forefront. Students enrolled in the program have the option to pursue a breadth of specializations related to the cultural intersection between humans and the sea. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science 4600 Rickenbacker Causeway Miami, FL 33149-1031 305-421-4000 305-421-4000 Resources Give to Rosenstiel School About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Rosenstiel School Campus Map UM Campus Map Parking & Transportation Shuttle Schedule Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram social-linkedin social-google-plus Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices