Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Registrar Course Evaluations Registrar Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Course Evaluations Boston College's online course evaluation survey process is fast, easy, convenient, secure, anonymous, confidential, and important. Course evaluation results are used by faculty to improve teaching, and they are a significant component in the promotion and tenure process. If you have any comments or suggestions about the course evaluation system, please contact evals@bc.edu. Print Open All Close All The Survey Process Fall and Spring semester course evaluation surveys will be released during the final week of the course and will close the day after the final exam. Students and faculty will receive an e-mail announcement the day the online course evaluations survey period opens. Summer course evaluations take place at the end of each course based on course end date. Students will receive an e-mail announcement one week before the start of the course evaluation period. Subsequent reminders will be sent to students who have not completed all their evaluations. Students will enter course evaluations using the Course Evaluations link at www.bc.edu/myservices. Students who complete all of their online course evaluations will have access to their posted grades on the first day of final exams. It is not possible to evaluate the same course more than once. The system records the completed evaluation and will not present further opportunities for evaluation of that course. All BC users can view the quantitative course evaluation results through the Course Information and Schedule link in www.bc.edu/myservices. The results for teaching assistants and faculty who have been at Boston College less than two years are not included. Confidentiality Boston College understands that confidentiality is one of your primary concerns when you complete an online course evaluation. Be assured that your identity and survey answers are completely protected. The online course evaluation system uses current technology security measures to ensure the security of the data, the anonymity of the participants, and the confidentiality of the results. Because the online course evaluation system disassociates the information that identifies the student at the time survey completion is marked in the system, no identifying information such as name, school, or major is included in the results stored in the system or seen by the instructor. Teaching Evaluation Questions Note to students: Responses to parts A and B are anonymously reported to the faculty member, the department chair, and the deans. The quantitative responses to these two parts are made available in summary form to other students. Answers to part C go only to the instructor. A. Course-Specific Course Organization and Planning / Course Design 1. The course was well organized. 5 Strongly Agree 4 Agree 3 Uncertain 2 Disagree 1 Strongly Disagree 2. The learning objectives were clearly defined. 5 Strongly Agree 4 Agree 3 Uncertain 2 Disagree 1 Strongly Disagree Course Difficulty and Workload 3. The course was intellectually challenging. 5 Strongly Agree 4 Agree 3 Uncertain 2 Disagree 1 Strongly Disagree 4. On average, how many hours per week outside of class do you devote for this course? 10 or More Hours per Week 7–9 hours 4–6 hours 1–3 hours < 1 hour Course Learning Outcomes 5. Class attendance was necessary for learning the course material. 5 Strongly Agree 4 Agree 3 Uncertain 2 Disagree 1 Strongly Disagree 6. Assignments were helpful in learning the course material. 5 Strongly Agree 4 Agree 3 Uncertain 2 Disagree 1 Strongly Disagree 7. I learned perspectives, principles, or practices that I expect to apply beyond the course. 5 Strongly Agree 4 Agree 3 Uncertain 2 Disagree 1 Strongly Disagree 8. How would you rate this course overall? 5 Excellent 4 Very Good 3 Good 2 Fair 1 Poor Course Open-Ended Questions 9. What are the strengths of this course? 10. What would have improved your learning in the course? 11. Additional Comments: B. Instructor-Specific Communication Clarity / Clarity of Instruction / Faculty Student Interaction 12. The instructor was effective in helping students understand difficult concepts, methods, and subject matter. 5 Strongly Agree 4 Agree 3 Uncertain 2 Disagree 1 Strongly Disagree 13. The instructor was available for help outside of class. 5 Strongly Agree 4 Agree 3 Uncertain 2 Disagree 1 Strongly Disagree 14. The instructor stimulated interest in the subject matter. 5 Strongly Agree 4 Agree 3 Uncertain 2 Disagree 1 Strongly Disagree 15. The instructor motivated me to do my best work. 5 Strongly Agree 4 Agree 3 Uncertain 2 Disagree 1 Strongly Disagree 16. How would you rate this instructor overall as a teacher? 5 Excellent 4 Very Good 3 Good 2 Fair 1 Poor Assignments and Grading 17. I received timely feedback on my assignments and assessments (tests). 5 Strongly Agree 4 Agree 3 Uncertain 2 Disagree 1 Strongly Disagree 18. I received meaningful feedback on my assignments and assessments (tests). 5 Strongly Agree 4 Agree 3 Uncertain 2 Disagree 1 Strongly Disagree Instructor Open-Ended Questions 19. Did the instructor treat all students with respect, and cultivate an open and welcoming environment in class? How or how not? C. Faculty Prepared Questions Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College