Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links CSF Menu Main Nav Center for Student Formation Contact Back Back Close About Overview Resources Undergraduate Programs Overview Compass Mentoring Program Stride Ascend Ascend Lead Profiles AHANA Summit Freshmen League Halftime Leadership Positions Collaborations Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Ascend Home Undergraduate Programs Ascend Ascend Ascend Lead Profiles Reaching New Heights! Ascend is a program for first-year women through the Center for Student Formation where participants have an opportunity to meet new peers, engage in meaningful conversations about life at BC, and connect with upperclass women mentors. The program consists of weekly small group meetings (two leads, eight first-year women) facilitated by junior and senior women, small group activities, optional program-wide events, and one off-campus overnight. The Ascend program officially launches at the start of Spring semester, but applications and interviews will take place during Fall semester. The transition to college can come with its fair share of joys and challenges. Take this chance to connect with upperclass women who have been in your shoes, build community, and talk about the shared experience of navigating life at BC. You, Boston College women, have the opportunity to build a great experience. We want to help you reach new heights! Learning Outcomes After participating in Ascend as a first-year participant, students will be able to: Identify one mentoring relationship at Boston College Indicate willingness to be more vulnerable in interpersonal relationships Articulate a sense of belonging to a community at Boston College After participating in Ascend as a junior or senior leader, students will be able to: Identify one mentoring relationship with a first-year student at Boston College Demonstrate growth in small group facilitation and leadership skills Report an increase in sense of self-confidence Inclusivity The Center for Student Formation is committed to inclusive programs that welcome all students. Apply Application opens on Friday, September 3, 2021 at 8 am. Application closes on Monday, October 17, 2021 at 11:59 pm First-Year Women First-year women meet weekly with their small groups in the Spring semester—with selection happening at the end of the Fall semester. Weekly 60-90 minute meetings occur with your small group of eight first-year women and two junior or senior co-leaders. Weekly meeting times are determined by the group before the start of the Spring semester. Other commitments include an all-program off-campus overnight (Saturday, January 29 - Sunday, January 30, 2022), 1-2 small group activities, and optional program-wide events. The application process includes an online application and an interview with our Ascend Leads during the Fall semester. The program itself kicks off in January 2022 with an off-campus overnight and continues through the end of Spring semester. Questions? Contact us at ascend@bc.edu Reflections from past participants “I am really loving my experience. Ascend is one of my favorite parts of the week. My group is able to have fun while also talking about issues that can be relatable to others or get advice on issues that we are dealing with.” “Ascend was a nice way to take a break in my week and spend some time with people I probably would have otherwise never gotten the chance to know.” Junior & Senior Women Ascend Leads help first-year women build a great BC experience through community, conversations, and mentorship. Interested in learning more about becoming an Ascend Lead? Visit the Ascend Lead page or contact us at ascend@bc.edu The Ascend Lead Applicaation will be open from August 31, 2021 to Stepember 20. 2021. Back To Top Back To Top Center for Student Formation 90 College Road Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-6140 About Undergraduate Programs Leadership Positions Collaborations Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College