Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad Healthy and Safe Abroad Students' safety and security are the highest priority for Clemson University. The Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad has policies and procedures in place to help protect the safety and well-being of study abroad participants. While we can never eliminate all potential risks while abroad, below are resources to prepare for a study abroad experience and minimize potential risks. In addition to the information provided on this page, all students preparing to study abroad must attend a Pre-Departure Orientation session in which health and safety issues are covered in detail. Please refer to the Pre-Departure Orientation Handbook for additional health and safety information. In an emergency abroad, please get to a safe location and then contact the local authorities, your on-site support staff, as well as Clemson University. Mental Health and Students Abroad Studying abroad can be challenging and rewarding. The Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad is working with partners on campus and abroad to ensure students can maintain practices that support their mental health. Please talk to an advisor as soon as possible so that we can ensure you have the resources you need available to you on your study abroad program. Below are some examples of how we can assist: CAPS online mindfulness resources for anxiety and depression Through our CISI Insurance, students can arrange for on-site mental health counseling in their destination country prior to arrival abroad All Clemson-sponsored and Approved providers will maintain mental health resources for students on-site Talk to your study abroad advisor or on-site coordinator about how to keep up with any of your routines that boost your mental health Are you concerned about a friend? Review this checklist for ways you can help. Review our resource list for additional resources. Sexual Harassment and Sexual Assault Abroad Sexual misconduct can happen anywhere. If you experience sexual harassment, sexual violence, or sexual exploitation while traveling abroad, get to a safe location immediately (Review our In an Emergency page for information). Know that what happened is not your fault, and we are here to support you. Please contact your program leader, faculty, resident director, or onsite support staff, someone you trust. Clemson students can also reach out directly to the Clemson Title IX Office. Alert Traveler At your mandatory pre-departure orientation, students will be given instructions on registering for AlertTraveler. This service is free of charge to Clemson students and provides important in-country updates as well as safety and security information for all countries that students may visit while abroad. Additionally, AlertTraveler has a security check-in for students to alert Clemson should they be in need of assistance. Registering your trip US citizens living abroad can register with their nearest embassy or consulate through the U.S. Department of State's website. Your study abroad application will prompt you to register your travel. By doing so, you will receive updated information on travel and security within the country to which you are heading. You also make it easier for the U.S. Embassy (and your family) to locate you in case of an emergency or disaster. Additional Health and Safety Resources The following online resources related to health and safety will be useful as you organize, plan, lead or participate in an overseas program. Please click on the titles to visit the respective websites. Clemson Healthy Campus Prepare for your experience with risk reduction resources for holistic wellness, interpersonal violence, bystander intervention, mental health, and alcohol and other drugs. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC): Travelers' Health Includes vaccination recommendations and information on the latest outbreaks of diseases around the world. Also provides health information on specific destinations and travel health notices (see Travel Warnings for more information). Smart Traveler App The iPhone App Smart Traveler, released by the U.S. Department of State, is a tool designed to provide easy access to frequently updated official country information, travel alerts, travel warnings, maps, and U.S. embassy locations. Drawing on content posted to http://www.state.gov/, this free app allows users to see travel warnings and alerts issued by the State Department, gather background information about different countries, and find U.S. embassies and consulates overseas. Available through Apple App Store and Google Play Overseas Security Advisory Council (OSAC) This Federal Advisory Committee promotes cooperation in the area of security between U.S. business and private sector interests worldwide and the U.S. Department of State as well as other U.S. government agencies. Provides region and country-specific news and reports, and a resource library on various topics. OSAC Traveling with Medication Utilize this resource to ensure that you can travel with your prescription medication. Provides pre-departure guidance as well as packing instructions and other resources. U.S. Department of State Travel Warnings and Consular Information Sheets Lists travel warnings for Americans in light of political unrest or health issues in individual countries as well as announcements for particular regions. Mental Health America For resources to promote your overall mental health including prevention services, support services, and resources. Home How to Apply Preparing for Your Experience Healthy and Safe Abroad International Medical Insurance Optional Trip Protection Insurance Travel Vaccinations Taking your prescriptions abroad Financing Your Experience While Abroad Covid-19 Updates FAQs Contact Us Login Information For Incoming Exchange Students Faculty and Staff Parents Returning to Clemson Related Links Passport Information US Department of State Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Office of Global Engagement Office of Global Engagement International Students English Language Programs Global Learning Institute for Faculty Global Partnerships Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram