Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Facilities & Rentals » Policies Set Navigation title in component Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Policies University Policies All rentals are required to adhere to all University of Cincinnati policies and all rules and regulations of the Campus Recreation Center. Rental Rates Rental Process Facility Reservation form Cancellations Cancellations must be made at least 48 hours in advance to receive a refund of fees paid less a $25 administration fee or 10% of total rental amount, whichever is greater. Payment in full will be charged for all events cancelled with less than 48 hours' notice, unless another rental takes its place. Equipment rental fees incurred by Campus Recreation from an outside vendor are not refundable unless cancelled ten business days prior to the event. Certificate of Insurance The University of Cincinnati requires that rental groups outside of the university, at their own cost and expense, provide and maintain Comprehensive General Liability Insurance covering Bodily Injury and Property Damage for an amount not less than $1,000,000.00 Combined Single Limits. The University of Cincinnati (2600 W. Clifton Avenue Cincinnati, OH 45221) shall be named as an additional insured. The rental group must provide the Certificate of Insurance no less than 5 business days prior to the rental period. Severe Weather Policy Campus Recreation will follow the university policy for snow delays and cancellations. In times of severe weather, Campus Recreation staff will update the main Campus Recreation phone message at 513-556-0604. In addition, members may check Campus Recreation's Facebook page for updates. The website may not be up to date in the event the server may not be accessed from off campus. Food Policy Classic Fare Catering is Campus Recreation's exclusive caterer. All outside food and drink purchases must come from Classic Fare. Breezeway Tabling Student Organizations and UC Departments may reserve table space for informational or philanthropic purposes in the Campus Recreation Center breezeway. There are a limited number of table spaces. Reservations are required, made on a first-come, first-served basis, and must be received a minimum five business days in advance. Outside groups are also welcome to table and promote events, please visit the rental rates tab for more information. Groups are able to sell food and beverages as long as they are homemade and all proceeds are for a charitable group or a donation. If a group is not sure if their proceeds are charitable, refer to the Sales and Solicitation of Funds university policy 3361:10-51 0 Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top