Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Children’s Environmental Health Home About Research Education & Training People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Trainees Key Partners Staff Past Trainees News Site Navigation Home About Vision & Mission Contact Career Opportunites Research Interventions to Reduce Chemical Exposures Health Effects of Environmental Exposures Modifiable Determinants of Environmental Exposures Molecular Epidemiology of Environmental Exposures Education & Training CCEH Seminar Series EH Courses at Brown People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Trainees Key Partners Staff Past Trainees News Past Trainees CCEH and the former Center for Environmental Health Technology (CEHT) faculty have provided training and mentorship to more 8 former post-doctoral fellows, 7 former PhD students, and a large number of master's level and undergraduate students. Details about our former trainees are shown below. Current trainees are listed here. Former Postdoctoral Fellows Dr. Kate Weinberger Worked with: Dr. Wellenius, 2015-2019 Now: Assistant Professor, University of British Columbia Dr. Shengzhi (“Darren”) Sun Worked with: Dr. Wellenius, 2017-2019 Now: Research Associate, Wellenius Group, Brown University School of Public Health Dr. Medina Jackson-Browne Worked with: Dr. Braun Now: Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, University of Delaware Dr. Samantha Kingsley Worked with: Dr. Braun Now: Rhode Island Department of Behavioral Healthcare Dr. Nan Li Worked with: Dr. Braun Now: Assistant Professor, Department of Epidemiology, Brown University School of Public Health Dr. Shaina Stacy Worked with: Dr. Braun, 2015-2016 Now: Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Pittsburgh Dr. Wenchi Pan Worked with: Dr. Wellenius, 2014-2015 Now: Assistant Professor, Institute of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan Dr. Megan Romano Worked with: Dr. Braun, 2013-2016 Now: Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, Dartmouth Geisel School of Medicine Dr. Yi Wang Worked with: Dr. Wellenius, 2011-2013 Now: Assistant Professor, Department of Environmental Health Sciences, Indiana University School of Public Health Dr. Deborah Watkins Worked with: Drs. Wellenius, Savitz, Kelsey, and Braun 2011-2013 Now: Research Assistant Professor, Environmental Health Sciences, University of Michigan School of Public Health Dr. Scott Langevin Worked with: Dr. Karl Kelsey, 2010-2013 Now: Assistant Professor, Department of Environmental Health, University of Cincinnati Dr. Brock Christensen Worked with: Dr. Kelsey, 2008-2011 Now: Associate Professor of Epidemiology, Dartmouth Geisel School of Medicine Dr. Gretchen Gee Worked with: Dr. Kelsey, 2005-2010 Now: Assistant Professor of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry (Research), Brown University PhD Recipients Geetika Kalloo Department of Epidemiology Degree awarded 2019 Thesis: Early Life Exposure to Chemical Mixtures: Implications for Neonatal Outcomes and Cognitive Ability Mentor: Dr. Braun Samantha Kingsley Department of Epidemiology Degree awarded 2017 Thesis: “Maternal Air Pollution Exposure, Placental Epigenetics, and Fetal Growth.” Mentor: Dr. Wellenius Jessica Shoaff Department of Epidemiology Degree Awarded 2016 Thesis: “Early Life Exposure to Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals: Implications for Child Birthweight, Growth, and Adiposity.” Mentor: Dr. Braun Ashley Smith Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Degree Awarded: 2014 Thesis: Integration of Genetic and Epigenetic Alterations in the Discovery of Molecular Drivers of Malignancy in Glioma Mentor: Dr. Kelsey William Accomando Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Degree Awarded: 2013 Thesis: Epigenetic Biomarkers for the Detection and Quantification of Human Leukocytes in Blood and Tissue Mentor: Dr. Kelsey Graham Poage Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology Degree Awarded: 2011 Thesis: DNA Copy Number, Methylation, and Clinical Factors in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinomas Mentor: Dr. Kelsey Caihua Liang Department of Epidemiology Degree Awarded: 2011 Thesis: Environmental and Genetic Factors in the Risk of Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Mentor: Dr. Kelsey Haley Cash Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Degree Awarded: 2011 Thesis: DNA Methylation of Repeat Regions in Human Cancer and Metabolic Disease Mentor: Dr. Kelsey ScM Epidemiology Graduates Noelle Henderson Degree awarded 2020 Thesis: "Is Breast Milk Consumption a Source of Non-Persistent Chemical Exposures in Infants?" Mentor: Dr. Braun Catrina Mueller-Leonhard Degree awarded 2018 Thesis: "Early-Life Exposure to Elemental Carbon from Traffic and Child Anthropometry." Mentors: Wellenius, Braun Keith Spangler Degree awarded 2018 Thesis: "Suitability of Gridded Climate Datasets for Epidemiologic Assessments of Meteorological Exposures." Mentor: Dr. Wellenius Taylor Etzel Degree awarded 2017 Thesis: “Urinary Triclosan Concentrations during Pregnancy and Birth Outcomes.” Mentor: Dr. Braun MPH Graduates Anthony Pellegrino Degree awarded 2019 Thesis: Using High Resolution Data on United States Housing Characteristics to Assess Vulnerability to Climactic Hazards Mentor: Dr. Wellenius June Jiao Degree awarded 2018 Thesis: Perfluoroalkyl Substances and Adolescent Cardiometabolic Disease Mentor: Dr. Braun Sophie Kauderer Degree awarded 2017 Thesis: “Residential Air Pollution and Gestational Comorbidities in Rhode Island.” Mentor: Dr. Wellenius Nithya Ramesh Degree awarded 2017 Thesis: Perfluroalkyl Substance Exposure and Child Dental Caries Mentor: Dr. Braun Raul Smego Degree awarded 2015 Thesis: Prenatal PCB Exposure and Thyroid Function Mentor: Dr. Braun Adila Prasodjo Degree awarded 2013 Thesis: Serum Cotinine and Folate Concentrations in Pregnancy Mentor: Dr. Braun Samantha Kingsley Degree awarded 2013 Thesis: “Proximity of US Schools to Major Roadways: a Nationwide Assessment.” Mentor: Dr. Wellenius Former Undergraduate Concentrators Caroline Blanck ScB Environmental Sciences (Sustainability in Development track) Degree awarded 2019 Thesis: "Heat-Related Mortality in a Warming World: Implications and Ways Forward." Mentor: Dr. Wellenius and Dr. Kate Weinberger Rebecca Noga AB Public Health (Honors) Degree awarded 2018 Thesis: "Determining the impact of the built environment on birth outcomes in the state of Rhode Island." Mentor: Dr. Wellenius Leah Haykin AB Health & Human Biology (Honors), Environmental Health track Degree awarded 2016 Thesis: “Projected temperature-related deaths in ten large U.S. metropolitan areas under different climate change scenarios.” Mentor: Dr. Wellenius Marisa Millenson ScB Statistics Degree awarded 2016 Thesis: “Urinary organophosphate insecticide metabolite concentrations during pregnancy and children's interpersonal, communication, repetitive, and stereotypic behaviors at 8 years of age: The home study.” Mentor: Dr. Braun People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Trainees Key Partners Staff Past Trainees Center for Children’s Environmental Health Center for Children’s Environmental Health Brown University Box G-S121-2 121 South Main Street Room 213 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5397 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top