Skip to content iastate.edu Index Directory Maps Safety Sign ons Toggle Navigation HOME ACADEMICS Undergraduate Programs Masters Programs PhD Program Faculty Research UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS Majors, Minors and Certificates Transfer Students Scholarships Undergraduate Student Services Undergraduate Career Services International Programs Writing & Speaking Center Student Organizations Hire an Ivy Graduate Start Something GRADUATE STUDENTS Masters Programs MBA Programs PhD Program Graduate Student Services Graduate Career Services Hire an Ivy Graduate Start Something ABOUT Ivy College of Business College Leadership Faculty & Staff Directory Rankings Alumni & Friends Upcoming Events Feature Stories APPLY SEARCH Loading... Master of Accountingfritzn2022-05-26T13:54:55-05:00 Project Description Master of Accounting If you want to add improved critical thinking, analytical decision making, and communication skills to your arsenal of accounting expertise, our master of accounting (MACC) program is for you. Designed to meet the needs of accountants in public and private industries, our comprehensive program will prepare you to take the Certified Public Accountant (CPA) exam or the Certified Management Accountant (CMA) exam. Whichever direction you want to go, we’ve got you covered. Our MACC program provides: fulfillment of the 150-hour CPA certification requirement CPA or CMA exam preparation area specializations hands-on, real-world coursework London study abroad option opportunity for a higher starting salary and faster advancement in your career science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) designation for international students CPA & CMA Specialization Guide Course Offerings FAQs AT A GLANCE PROGRAM TUITION AND FEES* Iowa residents: $722/credit hour + fees Non-residents: $1,610/credit hour + fees International students: $1,705/credit hour + fees PREFERRED APPLICATION DEADLINE May 1 (fall) October 1 (spring) April 1 (summer) FORMAT In-person LENGTH 30 credits, 2 semesters LOCATION Ames, Iowa WHAT TO DO NEXT Request Information × We're here to help MA Request Information Name First Last Email Phone Which Masters program are you interested in? MACC MBAN MFIN MRED MSIS MHAO Are you an international student? Yes No CAPTCHA When you click submit above, a confirmation of your submission will be sent to the email address you provide. If you do not see a copy, check your spam folder or feel free to contact us at busgrad@iastate.edu Close CONSULT AN AMBASSADOR START MY APPLICATION × Master of Accounting (MACC) I will be a concurrent student pursuing both my undergraduate and my graduate degrees. I will be a new graduate student to Iowa State University. I am a former graduate student of Iowa State University. Close Meet Jena Hagen After moving to Iowa from Oklahoma, Jena Hagen was ready for a new challenge. After working several years in the event management and hospitality industries, including a year in non-profit work, she was looking for a complete role shift. “I started feeling trapped. I couldn’t see the long-term growth potential that I wanted in my work anymore. So, I said to myself, ‘You’re in your thirties. It’s scary, but it’s never too late.’ I’ve always been detail-oriented and enjoyed problem solving. Accounting is such a dynamic field,” said Hagen. She researched programs throughout Iowa and the master of accounting program at the Ivy College of Business stood out because of the available specializations in data analytics and financial reporting. The career counselors at the Ivy College of Business helped her navigate her options, which ultimately led Hagen to enroll in the program. Hagen knows she’s in the right place. The master of accounting program only takes one year to complete and will open so many doors. The curriculum, course specializations, and CPA prep tipped the scales for me. I’ve enjoyed my work over the years, but a master of accounting will make all the difference in enabling me to remain challenged while gaining in-demand technical skills and control of my career long-term.” Jena Hagen Current Student Audit Assistant Deloitte Land Your Dream Job! Whether you’re looking for an internship, need help perfecting your resume, or you’re ready to land your first job, our career services team offers each student personalized, customized advice and services. Our graduate business career services staff will work with you one-on-one to help you to create and execute a search strategy, craft your resume and cover letters, prepare for career fairs and job interviews, improve your networking skills, and successfully negotiate offers. Learn more about our employment outcomes for MACC grads. MEET YOUR NEW NETWORK 0 Average age 0% Women See the full class profile Explore MACC In today’s competitive job market, employers want you to be certified or CPA-eligible. Our curriculum is designed to provide maximum preparation for the CPA exam or the CMA exam while building the skills and knowledge you need to shine in your future career. We offer several specializations so you can focus your studies to align with your future goals. In addition, program extras like add-on graduate certificates and our London study abroad experience create other ways to build your expertise, network, and resume. Scholarships and assistantships are available for qualified students. Explore MACC Accelerate Your Career As an undergrad, you can jump into our one-year program in tandem with you bachelor’s degree — meaning you can finish both programs in five years. Successful concurrent MACC candidates have: a GPA above 3.0 a B or higher in all accounting courses completed four upper division accounting courses, including ACCT 387 demonstrated strong professional communication skills Request Information Apply Today Successful applicants have a strong academic record and good communication skills. The following application materials are required: resume official college transcripts two letters of recommendation three essays TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo English score for non-native English speakers Please note: Graduate students whose native language is not English and who do not have a degree from Iowa State University, must take the English Placement Test at the beginning for their first semester of enrollment. The test is administered by the Department of English. It must be taken in addition to the Test of English as a Foreign Language), which is taken as a part of the admissions process. A student who does not pass this examination is required to take specific courses in the English 99/101 series. This coursework must be completed no later than the semester BEFORE you graduate. Apply today × Master of Accounting (MACC) I will be a concurrent student pursuing both my undergraduate and my graduate degrees. I will be a new graduate student to Iowa State University. I am a former graduate student of Iowa State University. Close Concurrent Student Applicants Concurrent students are those that are earning their undergraduate and graduate degree at the same time (concurrently). All other applicants will follow the standard application process. The following application materials are required and can be submitted by email to busgrad@iastate.edu: Fill out the concurrent student admission form resume official college transcripts two letters of recommendation three essays TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo English score for non-native English speakers Once all required application materials have been submitted, you will be contacted within two weeks. Admitted students are classified as graduate students when concurrent enrollment begins and are subsequently assessed graduate business tuition and fees. Prospective concurrent students should check with the financial aid office to better understand how aid may change with graduate student status. Ivy College of Business 2200 Gerdin 2167 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2027 CONTACT IVY VISITORS About Ivy Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events AACSB Accredited Rankings Learning Goals Facilities Alumni & Friends FOR COMPANIES Recruit a Student Post a Job CyBiz Lab Pappajohn Center SBDC Faculty Research Business Career Services Employer Services FACULTY & STAFF Iowa State Sign ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Marketing Project Request Faculty Research Awards Faculty & Staff Resources Ivy A-Z Index CURRENT STUDENTS Iowa State Signs ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Academic Advising Business Career Services Student Services Student Organizations CyHire Start Something FUTURE STUDENTS About Ivy Undergraduate Programs Master’s Programs MBA Programs PHD Programs International Programs Transfer Students Facilities Apply Ivy College of Business 2200 Gerdin 2167 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2027 CONTACT IVY VISITORS About Ivy Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events AACSB Accredited Rankings Learning Goals Facilities Alumni & Friends FOR COMPANIES Recruit a Student Post a Job CyBiz Lab Pappajohn Center SBDC Faculty Research Business Career Services Employer Services FACULTY & STAFF Iowa State Sign ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Marketing Project Request Faculty Research Awards Faculty & Staff Resources Ivy A-Z Index CURRENT STUDENTS Iowa State Signs ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Academic Advising Business Career Services Student Services Student Organizations CyHire Start Something FUTURE STUDENTS About Ivy Undergraduate Programs Master’s Programs MBA Programs PHD Programs International Programs Transfer Students Facilities Apply Copyright © 2022 | Iowa State University – Ivy College of Business | All rights reserved | Non-discrimination Policy | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility Policy | Remote Support | Iowa State Sign ons | Iowa State A-Z Index | Media Credits × Page load link Go to Top