COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Product Design and Manufacturing Engineering, Major MajorProduct Design and Manufacturing Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering Wichita State’s Bachelor of Science (BS) in product design and manufacturing engineering will prepare you for a high-paying career in a large number of industries and governmental organizations. You’ll have access to some of the best labs and technology in the country—and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and in Kansas’ center of industry. Learn how product design and manufacturing engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application WSU product design and manufacturing engineering students enjoy access to one of the world’s largest 3D printers. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Engineering, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Grad student's career takes flight with Spirit internship As a Shocker, you have access to a huge list of employers that provide internship opportunities for students looking to get hands-on job experience. Business grad Anushiya Shiley Gomes returned to WSU to earn her master’s, and in the process received a coveted internship at Spirit AeroSystems, one of Wichita’s top employers. Her time in the classroom gave her the background to succeed at Spirit. Curriculum In this ABET-accredited program, you’ll study core engineering courses, in addition to materials, design and manufacturing courses within the product design and manufacturing engineering major. Courses focus on: Product engineering and assembly Manufacturing quality and productivity Advanced processes and systems You’ll also choose from a number of technical electives—allowing you to explore concepts and topics in other engineering disciplines that impact design and processing. View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—gives product design and manufacturing engineering students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to high-paying careers in diverse fields. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Manufacturing Engineering (Minor) Graphic Design Graphic Design (Minor) Design and Technical Theatre Industrial Engineering 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©