Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Students About Us/Contact Research People ASCE Student Steel Bridge Team Objectives and Purpose The Clemson University Student Steel Bridge Team challenges students to design, fabricate, and construct a model steel bridge. At regional and national competitions, teams are judged on construction speed, weight, and deflection for a prescribed loading scenario. The quality of fabrication and the aesthetics of the bridge are also considered in the final score. Students design the bridge for various loading cases using structural analysis software; constructability and fabrication must also be considered during the design. Each year, the bridge is fabricated by students at the Clemson Civil Engineering research facilities. Students cut, grind, and weld steel sections to create bridge members. University staff members coordinate with the team to help with equipment training and help fabricate some of the more complex parts. The assembly team is then responsible for the timed construction of the bridge. The team is made up of three to eight students who practice the staging and building of the bridge in preparation for the regional and national competitions. The Steel Bridge Team encourages undergraduate and graduate students to further expand upon structural design, construction management, and communication skills learned in the classroom. Steel Bridge challenges students and provides practical Civil Engineering experience that can be used in the real world. Accomplishments 2014 3rd Place Overall, Carolinas Conference - 26th Place Finish, National Student Steel Bridge Competition 2013 1st Place Overall, Carolinas Conference - 23rd Place Finish, National Student Steel Bridge Competition 2012 1st Place Overall, Carolinas Conference - 9th Place Finish, National Student Steel Bridge Competition - Hosted National Student Steel Bridge Competition. Appearances at the National Student Steel Bridge Competition, 15 of last 16 years 2010 1st Place Overall, Carolinas Conference - 16th Place Finish, National Student Steel Bridge Competition 2009 1st Place Overall, Carolinas Conference - 13th Place Finish, National Student Steel Bridge Competition 2008 2nd Place Overall, Carolinas Conference - 11th Place Finish, National Student Steel Bridge Competition 2007 2nd Place Overall, Carolinas Conference - Top 10 Finish, National Student Steel Bridge Competition 2006 2nd Place Overall, Carolinas Conference - Top 10 Finish, National Student Steel Bridge Competition 2005 1st Place Overall, Carolinas Conference 2004 National Innovation Award 2003 1st Place Overall, Carolinas Conference - Top Ten Finish, National Student Steel Bridge Competition 2002 1st Place Overall, Carolinas Conference - Top Twenty Finish, National Student Steel Bridge Competition 2001 1st Place Overall, Carolinas Conference - National Student Steel Bridge Champions Steel Bridge Team Team Captains: Team Advisor: Weichang Pang Past Sponsors Britt Peters and Associates ESAB Fluor United Infrastructure Group, Inc. Jet Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. Rickborn & Associates, Inc. URS ASCE South Carolina Section SEA of SC South Carolina Steel Corporation Triplett-King & Associates, Inc. H2L Davis & Floyd, Inc. HDR Engineering CH2M-Hill Glenn Department of Civil Engineering Honors & Awards Fellowships Organizations ASCE Chi Epsilon ITE SEA ASCE GI-GSO Related Links Steel Bridge Team Concrete Canoe Team (3CT) Copyright © Clemson University Glenn Department of Civil Engineering | Lowry Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 (864) 656-3000 | Email Us