Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu News & Events News Events All News Stories Events 2022 Commencement photos Images from the 371st Harvard Commencement on Thursday, May 26 By Matt Goisman | Press contact May 26, 2022 FacebookTwitterEmailLinkedIn Click below to see images from the 2022 Harvard commencement, and find out where some students from the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences are going after they graduate. Students from the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences celebrate as they await the start of the procession at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Students from the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences process down Oxford Street at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Bagpipers lead the procession for the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences down Oxford Street at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) The procession for the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, led by bagpipers, pauses in the Science Center Plaza at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) The procession for the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences enters Harvard Yard at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Xincheng Tan, received her ME in computational science and engineering from the Harvard Institute for Applied Computational Science. She will work as a software engineer at Google following graduation. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Qi Guo, Ph.D. in electrical engineering, has accepted a position as assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering at Purdue University. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) David Melancon, Ph.D. in applied math, is currently in a postdoctoral research position at Princeton University, but will soon join Concordia University as a professor of aerospace engineering. Matheus Fernandes, Ph.D. in applied math, will work as a data scientist for Fidelity Investments. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Tianen Liu and Yujie Cai both received their S.M. in data science from the Harvard Institute for Applied Computational Science. Following graduation, Cai will pursue a Ph.D. in economics at the University of Rochester, and Liu will work for Adobe as a data scientist. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Amanda Filie, Ph.D. in Engineering Sciences: Materials Science and Mechanical Engineering, is working as an engineering consultant at Exponent in Boston. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Raphael Pellegrin and Tao Tsui both received their M.E. in computational science and engineering from the Harvard Institute for Applied Computational Science. Tsui will work as a machine learning researcher at a bank, while Pellegrin will go into industry after graduation. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Jingmei Hu finished her Ph.D. in computer science, and Ziwei Qiu completed a Ph.D. in applied physics. Hu will work in computer science research in industry following graduation, while Qiu will work as a researcher in industry. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Blake Bullwinkel, S.M. in data science from the Harvard Institute for Applied Computational Science, will work as a data scientist at Microsoft next year. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Tobias Egle, Ph.D. in materials science and engineering, will work for M Ventures in Boston, with a focus on investment in deep tech companies in the electronics space. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Frank Doyle, Dean of the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, greets students at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) The Class of 2022 processes through the Science and Engineering Complex Engineering Yard for the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Ph.D. Hooding Ceremony at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Guests greet the Class of 2022 at the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Ph.D. Hooding Ceremony in the Science and Engineering Complex Engineering Yard at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Bioengineering Ph.D. Kwasi Adu-Berchie will join the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering after graduation. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Environmental science and engineering Ph.D. graduates Colleen Golja and Bridger Ruyle. Golja will join the Linz Group as a postdoctoral researcher at Harvard, while Ruyle will become the interim resident dean for Dunster House. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Bioengineering Ph.D. Maxence Dellacherie was part of the Mooney Lab at SEAS. Following graduation, he'll work for a start-up specializing in stem cell differentiation. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Students from the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences celebrate as they await the start of the procession at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Students from the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences process down Oxford Street at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Bagpipers lead the procession for the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences down Oxford Street at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) The procession for the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, led by bagpipers, pauses in the Science Center Plaza at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) The procession for the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences enters Harvard Yard at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Xincheng Tan, received her ME in computational science and engineering from the Harvard Institute for Applied Computational Science. She will work as a software engineer at Google following graduation. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Qi Guo, Ph.D. in electrical engineering, has accepted a position as assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering at Purdue University. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) David Melancon, Ph.D. in applied math, is currently in a postdoctoral research position at Princeton University, but will soon join Concordia University as a professor of aerospace engineering. Matheus Fernandes, Ph.D. in applied math, will work as a data scientist for Fidelity Investments. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Tianen Liu and Yujie Cai both received their S.M. in data science from the Harvard Institute for Applied Computational Science. Following graduation, Cai will pursue a Ph.D. in economics at the University of Rochester, and Liu will work for Adobe as a data scientist. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Amanda Filie, Ph.D. in Engineering Sciences: Materials Science and Mechanical Engineering, is working as an engineering consultant at Exponent in Boston. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Raphael Pellegrin and Tao Tsui both received their M.E. in computational science and engineering from the Harvard Institute for Applied Computational Science. Tsui will work as a machine learning researcher at a bank, while Pellegrin will go into industry after graduation. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Jingmei Hu finished her Ph.D. in computer science, and Ziwei Qiu completed a Ph.D. in applied physics. Hu will work in computer science research in industry following graduation, while Qiu will work as a researcher in industry. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Blake Bullwinkel, S.M. in data science from the Harvard Institute for Applied Computational Science, will work as a data scientist at Microsoft next year. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Tobias Egle, Ph.D. in materials science and engineering, will work for M Ventures in Boston, with a focus on investment in deep tech companies in the electronics space. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Frank Doyle, Dean of the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, greets students at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) The Class of 2022 processes through the Science and Engineering Complex Engineering Yard for the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Ph.D. Hooding Ceremony at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Guests greet the Class of 2022 at the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Ph.D. Hooding Ceremony in the Science and Engineering Complex Engineering Yard at the 371st Harvard Commencement. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Bioengineering Ph.D. Kwasi Adu-Berchie will join the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering after graduation. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Environmental science and engineering Ph.D. graduates Colleen Golja and Bridger Ruyle. Golja will join the Linz Group as a postdoctoral researcher at Harvard, while Ruyle will become the interim resident dean for Dunster House. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Bioengineering Ph.D. Maxence Dellacherie was part of the Mooney Lab at SEAS. Following graduation, he'll work for a start-up specializing in stem cell differentiation. (Eliza Grinnell/SEAS) Topics: Academics, Events Cutting-edge science delivered direct to your inbox. Join the Harvard SEAS mailing list. Subscribe Press Contact Matt Goisman | mgoisman@g.harvard.edu Related News Mar 21, 2022 Learning outside the classroom Many research opportunities available to SEAS students Read more Academics Feb 16, 2022 Blazing their own path Sophomores introduced to “limitless” opportunities at SEAS Convocation Read more Academics, Alumni, Diversity / Inclusion Jan 26, 2022 Tech Fellows head to Oxford Read more Academics, Awards, Undergraduate Student Profile Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy