Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Master of Public Health Home About The Curriculum The Internship The Thesis Dual Degrees MPH/MPA Five-Year Undergraduate/MPH Five-Year MD/MPH Brown-Tougaloo Partnership Health Equity Scholars Site Navigation Home About Mission & Values People Competencies MPH Student Handbook (PDF) The Curriculum Interdisciplinary Concentration Addictions Concentration Epidemiology Concentration Global Health Concentration Health Behavior Concentration Health Services Concentration Maternal and Child Health Concentration Mindfulness Concentration The Internship The Thesis Dual Degrees MPH/MPA Five-Year Undergraduate/MPH UG/MPH Program Requirements Sample class schedule for UG/MPH Five-Year MD/MPH Brown-Tougaloo Partnership Health Equity Scholars Five-Year MD/MPH Students interested in the MD/MPH program must apply separately to Alpert Medical School and to the School of Public Health. Regardless of the route of admission to the medical school— PLME, Standard, EIP, Postbaccalaureate, Advanced Standing—all students are eligible to apply for the MPH during the first three years at the Alpert Medical School. There is no formal path for non-Brown medical students to enroll in the 5-year MD/MPH Program. However, medical students from other schools are welcome to apply to the MPH Program through the standard route and they may request that up to 2 courses from their medical school curriculum count toward the MPH degree. The Brown University School of Public Health uses the SOPHAS Express application system. SOPHAS Express is a centralized application service used by many of the accredited schools and programs in public health. The following materials are required: official transcripts for all undergraduate, graduate, or medical school academic work; three letters of recommendation; personal statement of understanding of public health and commitment to pursuing a career in public health. Statement should explain the relevance of education and/or experience to pursue a career in public health; a résumé; the SOPHAS application fee. GRE scores are NOT required. Standardized test scores will be considered if submitted. Admissions Deadline The priority deadline for applying to the MD/MPH Program is Feb 1. After Feb 1, applications will be reviewed on a rolling, space-available basis until May 1. The Admissions Committee for the MPH Program is composed of public health faculty and other professionals with experience in public health research and practice. Applicants will be assessed on their academic performance as well as evidence of a commitment to public health through previous course work, independent study, employment or volunteer experience. 5-Year MD/MPH Basic Degree Requirements To receive the MPH degree, students are required to satisfactorily complete thirteen courses (12 standard courses and 2 half-credit courses) and complete an internship and thesis. Students in the combined MD/MPH Program may request that up to two graduate/medical courses, taken previously or concurrently with their Brown MPH enrollment, be counted toward the elective requirement. Dual Degrees MPH/MPA Five-Year Undergraduate/MPH Five-Year MD/MPH Brown-Tougaloo Partnership Admissions Admissions Calendar Request Information Tuition & Funding Career Outcomes Career Advising Master of Public Health (MPH) Master of Public Health (MPH) Brown University 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top