Robotics and Intelligent Systems Certificate Program Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Robotics and Intelligent Systems Certificate Program Main Menu Menu Program Courses Projects Submenu Suggested Projects Topics for Research Resources People Engineering Events Keller Center SEAS News Log in Search Search Main Menu Program Courses Projects Resources People Robotics and Intelligent Systems Certificate Program - Princeton University The Certificate Program in Robotics and Intelligent Systems is designed for Princeton undergraduate students who are interested in pursuing careers or graduate education in three general areas: The creation of systems for learning, adaptation, decision-making, identification, estimation, and control using concepts drawn from cognitive and biological sciences. The analysis, design, and development of systems that automate manufacturing, transportation, health care, environmental stewardship, scientific research, and other activities; The understanding of human intelligence from the perspective of neuroscience and computation. New industries and organizations depend increasingly on the interplay between engineering, computing, and the life sciences. Innovations and inventions require multi-disciplinary approaches and entrepreneurship, as well as grounding in theory and practice, in topics that may not be covered by a single department. The program offers an integrated set of core and elective courses, introducing students to fundamental concepts, providing depth in specific fields of interest, and setting the stage for further achievement. Students are encouraged to expand their experience through summer internships with companies, government agencies, and university laboratories. Admission to the Program The program is open to juniors and seniors who have a satisfactory background in mathematics, science, and computing. Students should have successfully completed: Mathematics through MAT 202 or 204. The A.B. science and engineering distributional requirement or the B.S.E. first year science requirement. COS 126, ECE 115 or an equivalent computing course. Students planning to earn the program certificate should fill out the enrollment form. A new form listing updated progress towards the certificate must be filled out at the beginning of each year, and seniors must complete the form no later than the seventh week of their final year. Program of Study Students in this program must satisfy both program and departmental requirements. The detailed program for each student is worked out by the student and the student's departmental adviser. The program requirements are as follows: All students must take six courses, including three core courses and three electives. The Course Page lists eligible courses. To qualify for the certificate, a minimum grade average of B- in the six program courses is required. Program courses may not be taken on a pass/D/fail basis, unless that is the only grading alternative for the course. However, all courses taken on a pass/D/fail basis during Spring 2020, Fall 2020, or Spring 2021 will be accepted for the program. Courses may simultaneously fulfill both certificate program requirements and regular departmental requirements. A one-term senior independent work project or two-term senior thesis whose topic is relevant to robotics and intelligent systems must be completed and presented to the program committee. Junior independent work projects do not fulfill the certificate requirement. A minimum grade of B- for the project or thesis is required to qualify for the certificate. Footer Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA - Operator: (609) 258-3000 Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University