Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Be Career Ready Home Jobs and Internships Be Career Ready Jobs and Internships Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation The Skills Employers Seek Most Every class, job, internship, leadership position, etc. that you participate in throughout your Boston College education is preparing you for a meaningful personal and professional life ahead. The ability to recognize and articulate how these experiences are helping you develop the skills employers are seeking will help you in all stages of the career development process. Learn the Core Competencies The following are the skills/competencies employers are most seeking in their entry-level candidates. Career & Self-Development Proactively develop oneself and one’s career through continual personal and professional learning, awareness of one’s strengths and weaknesses, navigation of career opportunities, and networking to build relationships within and without one’s organization. Communication Clearly and effectively exchange information, ideas, facts, and perspectives with persons inside and outside of an organization both in writing and orally. Critical Thinking Identify and respond to needs based upon an understanding of situational context and logical analysis of relevant information. How to develop this competency Praxis Trivium Summer Program for Graduate Students Endeavor Designing Your Career Course Career Coaching Join a professional association or student organization Sample behaviors Show an awareness of own strengths and areas for development. Identify areas for continual growth while pursuing and applying feedback. Develop plans and goals for one’s future career. Professionally advocate for oneself and others. Display curiosity; seek out opportunities to learn. Assume duties or positions that will help one progress professionally. Establish, maintain, and/or leverage relationships with people who can help one professionally. Seek and embrace development opportunities. Voluntarily participate in further education, training, or other events to support one’s career. Engage in lifelong learning and the continuous pursuit of truth. How to develop this competency Academic courses that focus on writing and presentation skills On-campus jobs Internships E-board of a student organization Sample behaviors Understand the importance of and demonstrate verbal, written, and non-verbal/body language, abilities. Employ active listening, persuasion, and influencing skills. Express ideas -- verbally and in writing -- in a clear and organized manner so that others can effectively understand. Frame communication with respect to diversity of learning styles, varied individual communication abilities, and cultural differences. Ask appropriate questions for specific information from supervisors, specialists, and others. Promptly inform relevant others when needing guidance with assigned tasks. Demonstrate effective public speaking skills through presenting information relevant to the intended audience. How to develop this competency Academic coursework Research (on- or off-campus) E-board of a student organization Jobs and internships Sample behaviors Make decisions and solve problems using sound, inclusive reasoning and judgment. Gather and analyze information from a diverse set of credible and valid sources and individuals to fully understand a problem. Proactively anticipate needs and prioritize action steps. Accurately summarize and interpret data with an awareness of personal biases that may impact outcomes. Effectively communicate actions and rationale, recognizing the diverse perspectives and lived experiences of stakeholders. Multi-task well in a fast-paced environment. Think creatively, brainstorm, and ideate multiple solutions to a problem before making a decision. Reflect on and learn from mistakes; pivot and adapt based on that learning. Equity & Inclusion Demonstrate the awareness, attitude, knowledge, and skills required to equitably engage and include people from different local and global cultures. Engage in anti-racist practices that actively challenge the systems, structures, and policies of racism. Leadership Recognize and capitalize on personal and team strengths to achieve organizational goals. Professionalism Knowing work environments differ greatly, understand and demonstrate effective work habits, and act in the interest of the larger community and workplace. How to develop this competency Cultural student organizations Study or work abroad Participate in new cultural experiences at BC and beyond Academic courses that focus on social justice Sample behaviors Solicit and use feedback from multiple cultural perspectives to make inclusive and equity-minded decisions. Actively contribute to inclusive and equitable practices that influence individual and systemic change. Advocate for inclusion, equitable practices, justice, and empowerment for historically marginalized communities. Seek global cross-cultural interactions and experiences that enhance one’s understanding of people from different demographic groups and that leads to personal growth. Keep an open mind to diverse ideas and new ways of thinking. Identify resources and eliminate barriers resulting from individual and systemic racism, inequities, and biases. Demonstrate flexibility by adapting to diverse environments. Address systems of privilege that limit opportunities for members of historically marginalized communities. Use active listening skills to increase empathy for others, including those from backgrounds that are different from one's own. Commit to continuous and lifelong learning on global issues of diversity, equity, and inclusion. How to develop this competency LeaderShape Residential Assistant E-board of a student organization Teaching Assistant Mentor Athletic involvement Sample behaviors Inspire, persuade, and motivate self and others under a shared vision and goals. Seek out and leverage diverse resources and feedback from others to inform direction. Use innovative thinking to go beyond traditional methods. Serve as a role model to others by approaching tasks with confidence and a positive attitude. Motivate and inspire others by encouraging them and by building mutual trust. Plan, initiate, manage, complete, and evaluate projects. Incorporate unique strengths, skills, and values into one's own authentic leadership style. Seek opportunities to serve as an active ally and elevate the voices of others. How to develop this competency On-campus jobs Internships Volunteer work Academic courses/faculty interactions Sample behaviors Act equitably with integrity and accountability to self, others, and the organization. Maintain a positive personal brand in alignment with organization and personal career values. Be present, prepared, and dependability (e.g., report consistently for work or meetings). Critically assess yourself and your work in relation to your goals, while also inviting and incorporating feedback from others. Prioritize and complete tasks to accomplish organizational goals. Consistently meet or exceed goals and expectations. Have an attention to detail, resulting in few if any errors in their work. Show a high level of dedication toward continuous growth and professional development. Teamwork Build and maintain collaborative relationships to work effectively toward common goals, while appreciating diverse viewpoints and shared responsibilities. Technology Understand and leverage technologies ethically to enhance efficiencies, complete tasks, and accomplish goals. Service to Others With an eye toward justice, continually reflect on what the world needs you to be. Apply your unique talents and skills gained while at Boston College to help address the world's most urgent problems. How to develop this competency Athletics Group projects (in jobs, internships, or courses) Student organization involvement Sample behaviors Listen carefully to others, taking time to understand and ask appropriate questions without interrupting. Effectively manage conflict and learn how to effectively work with diverse personalities. Be accountable for individual and team responsibilities and deliverables. Employ personal strengths, knowledge, and talents to complement those of others. Exercise the ability to compromise, be agile and be resilient. Collaborate with others to achieve common goals. Build strong, positive working relationships with supervisor and team members/coworkers. How to develop this competency Academic coursework Online courses (e.g. CodeAcademy, Coursera, LinkedIn Learning) Research Internships Sample behaviors Navigate change and be open to learning new technologies. Use technology to improve efficiency and productivity of their work. Identify appropriate technology for completing specific tasks. Manage technology to integrate information to support relevant, effective, and timely decision-making. Quickly adapt to new or unfamiliar technologies. Manipulate information, construct ideas, and use technology to achieve strategic goals. Demonstrate digital safety and ethics. How to develop this competency Pulse Volunteer work Civic engagement Retreats Sample behaviors Articulate how your individual strengths and skills can be used to help others and serve the greater good. Seek out opportunities to help others with no expectation of personal reward Share resources such as time, talent, and money with those in need Make civic-minded decisions, prioritizing the common good over personal gain Articulate how one's intended career benefits society or helps others Demonstrate personal resonsibility and commitment to dismantling systems of oppression In the spirit of cura personalis (care for the whole person), acknowledge and holistically support the individual needs of people in your community and workplace Reflect on Your Career Readiness Connect all of your jobs, internships, campus involvement, and academics to the skills employers are seeking to help you discern your interests and prepare for your search. Utilize our worksheet to help guide your reflection. Download PDF It's a Lifelong Process Career management is an ongoing lifelong process. BC alumni offer advice for navigating and managing your career throughout your time at BC and beyond. Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College