Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index School of Law Menu Search TTU School of Law Admissions Frequently Asked Questions Texas Tech Law Program: How long does the law school program take to complete? Our law school program typically takes three years to complete and students must earn 90 credit hours to graduate. Some students who opt to take summer courses may complete the program in under three years. Do you have any dual degree programs available? Yes, Texas Tech Law has 10 dual degree programs. Nine of our dual degree programs may be completed within the same three years as our law school program, saving our students time and money. For more information on these opportunities, click HERE. Can I specialize in a particular area of law? Although concentration or specialization is not required, the law school curriculum is sufficiently broad to allow, through the selection of electives, a concentration in some areas of law. These areas include property and estate planning, tax law litigation, judicial administration and procedure, environmental and natural resource planning, public interest law, commercial law, business association, criminal law, and administrative law. You are encouraged to review our curriculum to ensure that a sufficient number of courses, including supplemental and related courses, are offered in your area of interest. May I complete my law school degree online at Texas Tech Law? No, our law school program is provided in-person on campus in Lubbock, TX. Does Texas Tech Law offer a part-time program? No, our law school program is offered in a full-time format, which allows students to graduate with a law degree within three years. How many start dates are there for first-year students? We accept first-year students for the fall semester only. Preparation for Law School What should I study in undergrad/what classes should I take? You must earn a bachelor's degree before you may begin attending law school, but you can major in any subject. We have had more than 60 majors represented by our students over the years and we welcome all majors to apply. We recommend choosing an undergraduate major in a subject that you enjoy because students tend to earn higher grades in courses that hold their interests. Earning consistently high grades in college will give you a strong GPA, which will help make you a stronger candidate for law school. Law school is a very rigorous program and you will need to demonstrate that you have what it takes to succeed. When choosing your college classes, make sure that you are selecting some research intensive and writing intensive courses. These are skills that lawyers use every day and excelling in them may make you a more competitive applicant. Does my undergrad school matter? We are looking for the strongest candidates for our legal program, regardless of where the students attend undergrad. The Admissions Committee reviews applications holistically and will consider the rigor of your major, the difficulty of the courses you choose, and how well you perform in all your courses. While it does not matter where you attend college, it does matter how well you perform academically compared with your classmates. Your file will provide the overall GPA and LSAT score distributions (by percentage) for students from your college who have applied to ABA accredited law schools. This information helps the Admissions Committee compare your academic performance with other students from your specific undergraduate institution. What activities should I participate in/groups should I join? When reviewing your application, the Admissions Committee will be looking for leadership experience, consistent community service, and anything else that demonstrates your stable involvement in organizations and activities outside of your classes. The activities you participate in give the Committee a better idea of who you are and where your interests lie. You are encouraged to join your college's Pre-Law Society or equivalent if available, which will help demonstrate your long-term interest in law school and will help you prepare for applying when the time comes. Will having a legal internship help my chances of getting into law school? Participating in a legal internship is not necessary to gain entry into Texas Tech Law and many excellent law students begin law school with no prior legal experience. That said, if you are on the fence about law school or want to be sure that a legal career is right for you, legal internships are great opportunities to see the day-to-day life of attorneys. Interning in a law office may help you determine if law school is the right investment for your future. Application Requirements: What documents do I need to apply to Texas Tech Law? You must apply electronically via LSAC.org. For a law school application to be considered complete, you will need the following documents: Valid LSAT score Completed LSAT writing sample Transcript(s) Personal statement Current resume 2 letters of recommendation Character and fitness statement (if applicable) Grade and/or LSAT addendum (as appropriate) Diversity statement (as appropriate) Do I have to take the Law School Admissions Test (LSAT)? Yes, you will need a valid LSAT score to complete your Texas Tech Law application. We do not accept the GRE and the LSAT requirement cannot be waived. You can register for the LSAT on the Law School Admission Council's (LSAC) website HERE. The LSAT is currently administered several times throughout the year: January, February, March, April, June, August, October, and November of each year (please note that test dates are subject to change per the LSAC). The schedule can be found HERE. LSAT scores are good for five years. When should I take the LSAT? The new application for the entering class of fall 2022 becomes available on September 1, 2021 and will remain open for regular decision through March 1, 2022. To meet the March 1 deadline, you should take the LSAT by January 2022. However, you are strongly encouraged to sit for an earlier test. Applicants need not wait for a score before submitting their application. It is better to submit your application before the deadline and wait for the score in order for your application to be marked complete than to wait for your score and submit a late application. An application will not be reviewed until it is marked complete. How are multiple LSAT scores evaluated? We consider all LSAT scores, but the higher score is what is used for statistical purposes. It is still in your best interest to fully prepare for the exam and plan on sitting for the exam once. Never take the LSAT exam for practice under the belief that you can achieve a higher score at a later date. If you take the exam three or more times or if there is a significant difference in your score between exams, you are encouraged to write a LSAT addendum explaining what steps you took to increase your score and what other factors may have affected your scores. For more information regarding addendums, please view the "What is an addendum?" section below. Why might I need more than one transcript? If you attended more than one college credit conferring institution, you will need to provide LSAC with a transcript for each institution. This means that you will need a transcript for any dual-credit courses, community college courses, online college courses, from your bachelor's degree conferring college or university, and any other college credit you have earned. For more information about LSAC transcript requirements and how to request those transcripts, click HERE. LSAC will convert all your grades and will calculate your Undergraduate Grade Point Average (UGPA), which will be reported to the law school. For more information about LSAC's transcript summarization methods, click HERE. What should I write about in my personal statement? We do not have a specific prompt. The personal statement is your opportunity to tell the Admissions Committee who you are, what your motivation is for seeking a career in law, and to discuss your goals relevant to the profession. You can use this opportunity to write about something you are passionate about, any personal experiences, past challenges or disadvantages and how you overcame them, or any special conditions you believe relevant. You are allotted two, double-spaced pages for your personal statement and your writing skills will be reviewed along with the content and your ability to follow directions. The Admissions Committee reads hundreds of applications each admissions cycle, so ensure that yours stays within the two-page limit, that it has been proofread, and that it maintains your voice. What information should I include in my resume? You should include information about your education, employment, community service, extra-curricular activities, and leadership history. Your resume should be current (i.e. no high school information) and professionally formatted. Texas Tech Law encourages applicants to have resumes reviewed by a Career Services member at their undergraduate institution. Are letters of recommendation required? Yes, you must submit two letters of recommendation with your application. Applicants must have their recommenders submit letters of recommendations directly to LSAC's Credential Assembly Service (CAS). Any letters of recommendation beyond the two included in the CAS Report will not be accepted. The Admissions Committee values comments made by those with whom you have had a close working or academic relationship and will examine the basis for the evaluator's comments when deciding the importance to assign to the letters of recommendation. The committee assigns little significance to letters written by people who have attained impressive accomplishments, but whose opinion of the applicant is primarily based on a personal relationship to the applicant or applicant's family. If the evaluator can speak only to knowing you as a family acquaintance or simply repeat the accomplishments listed in your resume, the evaluation or letter will not assist the Admissions Committee. Do I need a character and fitness statement? Applicants must fully disclose certain prior academic information and legal offenses that may reflect on character and fitness to practice law. The application will inform you of the types of disclosures you must make, if any. Please read the question carefully. If you are required to make disclosures, your character and fitness statement will allow you to briefly explain what happened and when, accept responsibility, and explain what you learned from the experience. Texas Tech Law reserves the right to deny admission to applicants who, in the judgment of the Office of Admissions, appear to be unfit in character to engage in the study or practice of law. Failure to fully disclose criminal proceedings or other disciplinary action can result in revocation of the admission offer, disenrollment after matriculation, or other disciplinary action such as expulsion from the law school. Furthermore, applicants have a duty to promptly advise the Office of Admissions of any changes to the disclosure information presented in the application once it has been submitted, leading up to matriculation, and post-matriculation. Law schools are required to provide bar examiners in every state with an assessment of the student's character and fitness for the practice of law. What is an addendum? Addenda are optional attachments and allow you the opportunity to succinctly explain any specific issue in your application that may adversely affect your candidacy. If you have a GPA or a LSAT score that is below the median average of Texas Tech Law, you may write an addendum explaining any extenuating circumstances such as medical issues, family emergencies, unforeseen circumstances, etc. that affected your performance. Disclosing information that you are comfortable sharing may help the Admissions Committee understand anomalies in your application. If you struggled when you began college, but then you took a break, reevaluated your priorities, came back, and excelled in college, you could write an addendum to briefly tell that story. If your grades trend up on your transcripts, you could highlight that upward trend. It is helpful to identify where you underperformed, show maturity by accepting responsibility where applicable, explain measures taken to improve, and focus the Admissions Committee's attention on information that demonstrates your ability to academically excel in law school. What is a diversity statement? A diversity statement is an optional document that allows you to share your unique perspective based on your culture, race, ethnicity, faith, sexual orientation, gender, age, socioeconomic status, academic background, or work experience, etc. The Admissions Committee is interested in admitting students with unique experiences and backgrounds that will enrich the perspectives and viewpoints Texas Tech Law community. Application Process: How much is the application fee? The Texas Tech Law application fee has been waived for the 2021-2022 admission cycle. How do I submit my application? Applications and all supporting documents must be submitted electronically through the LSAC.org website. Create your free LSAC account online HERE so you can complete our online application. When will the application become available? The new application for the entering class of fall 2022 becomes available on September 1, 2021. When is the deadline for applications? Your application should be submitted by March 1, 2022. Merit-based scholarships will be awarded upon availability. It is highly recommended that you submit your quality application as early in the application cycle as possible to be considered for admission and scholarships before available seats and funding are completely disbursed. If I apply during the late decision period, is it still possible to gain admission to Texas Tech Law? Yes, if you apply between March 2 and May 1, 2022, it is possible, however, your chances of gaining admission or a scholarship will be greatly diminished. Late applications will not be reviewed until after all timely applications are reviewed. Can I apply after the late decision deadline? No, the application will close May 1, 2022. We will not receive applications from the LSAC after the late decision deadline has passed. Can the application be used for any semester? No. We accept first-year students for the fall semester only. For information regarding transfer or visiting student application, please view the "About Transfer Students" section below. You should choose the appropriate electronic application to apply for admission as an entering, transfer (fall or spring), or visiting (fall, spring, summer) student. If you are denied admission and choose to reapply in a subsequent year, you must complete a new application. Do you grant personal interviews? No. Time limitations and the large number of applicants prevent us from granting personal interviews. It is important to include any information you wish to be considered by the Admissions Committee within your application. What factors are weighed in making a decision on my application? Considerable weight is placed upon your LSAT score and UGPA, as these are strong indicators of an applicant's likelihood of success in our rigorous law school program. Additionally, the Admissions Committee looks beyond the quantitative data in making its decisions and considers such factors as background, experience, extracurricular activities and interests, and evidence of leadership qualities. Will you accept my spring semester grades? Yes. An updated transcript may be submitted to LSAC at any time and the cumulative GPA will be recomputed to reflect the additional grades. An updated report will be automatically electronically transmitted to Texas Tech Law. How can I check the status of my application? You can check your application status through your LSAC.org account. We also highly recommend checking daily the email account you indicated on your application. The Office of Admissions will contact you via your preferred email address if we need additional information from you or if we have information to share with you about your application. How soon will I get a decision? Texas Tech Law considers applications on a rolling admissions basis. When we have received all the required documents from the LSAC for an applicant, their file will be marked complete and placed in the queue for review by the admissions committee. How does the waitlist work? Some applicants may display qualities or achievements that indicate they could succeed at Texas Tech Law, but may not have the qualifications to merit acceptance at the time they are reviewed based on factors such as the number of offers outstanding or predicted class size. Such applicants might be placed on the waitlist. This means that the applicant's file remains under consideration until a final determination can be made. When a final decision is made, the applicant will be notified. The Admissions Committee begins reviewing the waitlist in mid-April. It is possible, though rare, that applicants could remain on the waitlist until as late as August before a final decision can be made. May I appeal the denial of my application? Decisions made by the Admissions Committee are final and not subject to appeal. Occasionally, an applicant wishes to report a material change in his or her application, such as a new LSAT score or GPA as evidenced by an updated LSAC CAS Report. In this event, an applicant should contact Texas Tech Law and request their file be reconsidered. Financial Aid and Scholarships: What is the cost of tuition, books, and supplies? Tuition and fees for 2021-2022 are $27,232 for Texas residents and $38,602 for non-residents (based on 30 credit hours). For a detailed tuition and fee schedule, visit our financial aid page HERE. How do I qualify for Texas residency? Students who move to Texas after reaching the age of 18 are considered to be nonresidents unless they have resided in the state for other than educational purposes for a period of 12 months immediately preceding enrollment. Questions of residency status frequently arise concerning members of the Armed Forces assigned to duty in Texas and persons who have been Texas residents but have moved out of Texas for employment. Applicants in these and other circumstances involving questionable residency status should seek clarification from Texas Tech Law. What is the Out-of-State Tuition Waiver and who qualifies for it? Texas allows an out-of-state student (non-resident) who receives a competitive academic scholarship of at least $1,000 for the academic year to pay the significantly lower tuition rates otherwise available only to Texas residents. This award results in an additional benefit of more than $8,000. What scholarship opportunities are available and when will I know if I am receiving a scholarship? Incoming students are automatically considered for all scholarships for which they are eligible. The Office of Admissions awards scholarships to incoming students primarily on the basis of merit. Scholarship recipients are typically notified of their awards at the time of acceptance or shortly thereafter, but awards are made on a rolling basis and notification could come at any time prior to enrollment. Scholarship award letters will contain any retention conditions that apply to a scholarship. Second and third year students are able to apply for internal Texas Tech Law scholarship funds based on their law school performance during the spring semester. There are also scholarship opportunities available to current students through some Texas Tech Law student organizations. There are also external scholarship opportunities available online and locally through businesses and law firms that are not associated with Texas Tech Law. Prospective, admitted, and current students are encouraged to search for these external scholarship opportunities online throughout their law school experience to help offset the costs of student debt. Do I have to fill out a FAFSA application for law school financial aid? All applicants for federal student aid (including loans) must complete the free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). If you plan on enrolling in law school at the beginning of the fall term, you can apply for federal financial aid using the FAFSA beginning October 1 of the prior calendar year. What is the FICE code for completing the FAFSA? The code for Texas Tech University is 003644. Transfer Students: What are the requirements for transferring into Texas Tech Law? Students may apply as transfer students after they have completed a full academic year at their current law school. Students must submit (1) a transfer application, (2)transcripts from their fall and spring semesters, (3) a letter of recommendation from a current law professor, and (4) a letter of good standing based on both fall and spring grades. Students may transfer up to 30 credit hours, the determination of accepted hours will be made by our Dean of Academic Affairs and registrar's office. While we accept applications from any students interested in transferring, students who show they are capable of the academic workload are typically the students that get more serious consideration from the Admissions Committee. How does Texas Tech Law evaluate law school transfer credits? Students may receive transfer credit for courses completed at other law schools approved by the American Bar Association in two ways. First, students who initially matriculate at another ABA-approved law school may transfer to Texas Tech Law and receive credits for courses taken at the other school. Second, students at Texas Tech Law may receive credit for courses taken as a visiting student at another ABA-approved law school. More information can be found HERE. How many credits can I transfer? Students cannot transfer more than 30 credits for courses taken at another ABA-approved law school to be counted towards the requirements of the J.D. degree from Texas Tech Law. No credit will be transferred for courses taken at a law school that is not approved by the ABA. Will my GPA transfer as well? Only the credits for courses taken at another law school will be recorded on a student's Texas Tech Law transcript. The grades for these courses will not be recorded on the student's transcript and will not be used to compute the student's cumulative grade point average at Texas Tech Law. Will I be considered for scholarships at Texas Tech Law when I apply to transfer in? Transfer students are not considered for scholarships when they apply. However, once a student transfers into Texas Tech Law, they are welcome to apply for internal scholarships. COVID Impact How will my transcript be treated if I have Pass/Fail or Credit/No Credit grades in Spring 2020 and possibly Fall 2020? If your college offered P/F grades for Spring and/or Fall of 2020 due to Covid-19, the LSAC will include a letter in your law school application to inform Admissions Committee. We understand that students have experienced a significant disruption to the educational environment due to Covid, and we will not negatively view applications that have a "Pass" or "Credit" notations in lieu of a letter grade. A notation of "Fail" or "No Credit" will be considered as course credit that was attempted but not earned. As with any failing grade, you will want to provide an addendum explaining any extenuating circumstances that may have affected your academic performance. The LSAC provides information on how it will calculate P/F grades for your cumulative UGPA. More information can be found HERE. I'm planning to take a gap year (or several). How can I be sure that the P/F grades from 2020 will not hurt my chances for admission? The LSAC will include a letter in your application file indicating any grades issued by your college that were affected by Covid-19 in 2020. As stated in the answer above, the Admissions Committee will not negatively view applications that have a "Pass" or "Credit" notations in lieu of a letter grade. If you have concerns that the LSAC will fail to include such a letter in your file in the future, you are always welcome to ensure that this information is highlighted for the Admissions Committee by writing brief addendum. If you are planning on taking a gap year (or several), make sure that your resume indicates how you spent your time after graduating or while taking a break from college. Will you treat the LSAT-Flex scores differently than the 'traditional' LSAT? The Admissions Committee relies on the LSAC to provide valid and reliable LSAT scores for law school applicants, regardless of the format in which the LSAT was taken. The LSAC has stated that the individual questions and sections on the LSAT have similar difficulty levels as the "traditional" LSAT. Accordingly, the Admissions Committee will consider a LSAT Flex score in the same regard as a traditional LSAT score. News for ViewbookNews for Viewbook Viewbook Contact ContactContact Contact Contact EventsEvents Event Calendar School of Law Like School of Law on FacebookLike School of Law on Facebook Follow School of Law on twitterFollow School of Law on twitter Subscribe to School of Law on YouTubeSubscribe to School of Law on YouTube Connect with School of Law on LinkedInConnect with School of Law on LinkedIn Address Texas Tech University School of Law, 3311 18th Street, Lubbock, Texas 79409-0004 Phone 806.742.3791 Email law@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityOct 7, 2021 8:55 AM School of Law About Us School of Law About Us Back Our Story School of Law About Us Our Story Back Who We Are Mission Statement & Learning Outcomes Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Our Community School of Law About Us Our Community Back Faculty Directory Staff Directory Admissions School of Law Admissions Back Prospective Students School of Law Admissions Prospective Students Back Welcome Why Texas Tech Law Transfer and Visiting Applicants Diversity & Inclusion FAQs Recruiting Events and Virtual Resources ABA Required Disclosures Apply to Texas Tech Law School of Law Admissions Apply to Texas Tech Law Back Admissions Policy Application Process Apply Now Online Status Check Financial Aid School of Law Admissions Financial Aid Back Tuition Refunds and Payments How to Apply Scholarships Loans and State Aid Other Types of Aid Student's Rights and Responsibilities Admitted Students School of Law Admissions Admitted Students Back Welcome Pay Your Seat Deposit Online eRaider Account Campus Computing Resources Academics School of Law Academics Back Academic Resources School of Law Academics Academic Resources Back Academic Policies Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Raiderlink Honor Code & Student Handbook Faculty Directory 2021-22 Post-Tenure Review Staff Directory Information Technology Services Publications MyTechLaw Degree Programs School of Law Academics Degree Programs Back Doctor of Jurisprudence Dual-Degree Programs Concentrations Centers & Programs School of Law Academics Centers & Programs Back Center for Biodefense, Law, and Public Policy Center for Military Law and Policy Center for Water Law and Policy Office of Academic Success Programs Advocacy Competition Energy Law Program Legal Practice International Law Programs Public Service Clinics & Externships School of Law Academics Clinics & Externships Back Clinical Program Overview Regional Externship Office of the Registrar School of Law Academics Office of the Registrar Back Welcome Registration Information Exam Information Request a Transcript FERPA Degree & Enrollment Verifications Reordering Diploma Open Records Request Texas Bar Exam and MPRE Student Life School of Law Student Life Back Important Links School of Law Student Life Important Links Back Academic Policies Honor Code & Student Handbook Faculty Directory Staff Directory Title IX Life at Tech Law School of Law Student Life Life at Tech Law Back Meet Student Life Academic Support Student Support Public Service Student Organizations Advocacy Competition Teams Summer Public Interest Award Publications School of Law Student Life Publications Back Texas Tech Law Review Estate Planning & Community Property Law Journal Journal of Biosecurity, Biosafety, and Biodefense Law Texas Bank Lawyer The Sidebar Express School of Law Catalog Law School Video Recording Law School Events School of Law Student Life Law School Events Back Event Calendar Events@Law Submission Guidelines May 2022 Commencement Library School of Law Library Back Law Library Home Services School of Law Library Services Back Students Faculty Alumni Practicing Attorneys Visitors Research and Reference School of Law Library Research and Reference Back Electronic Databases Internet Resources Scholar Research Guide Series HeinOnline WestlawNext Intro to Legal Periodicals and Books SSRN ProQuest Congressional BNA Bloomberg Law Lexis Advance West Academic Study Aids Technical Services School of Law Library Technical Services Back Web Printing ILL Information School of Law Library Information Back Library Newsletter Map and Directions Floor Plans Other Area Libraries Job Openings Contact Us Careers School of Law Careers Back Home School of Law Careers Home Back Welcome Symplicity Students School of Law Careers Students Back Services MyTechLaw Employers School of Law Careers Employers Back Posting a Job Opportunity On-Campus Interview Programs Regional Interview Events Online Resume ViewBooks Rank Spread Alumni School of Law Careers Alumni Back Request a Transcript Job Search Resources 2022 Graduate Employment Survey Form Employment Statistics School of Law Careers Employment Statistics Back 2021 Employment Summary 2020 Employment Summary 2019 Employment Summary Alumni & Giving School of Law Alumni & Giving Back General Information School of Law Alumni & Giving General Information Back Resources for Alumni Texas Tech Lawyer Magazine Texas Tech Law School Foundation School of Law Alumni & Giving Texas Tech Law School Foundation Back Foundation Board Distinguished Alumni, Service, and Humanitarian Awards Giving to Texas Tech Law Alumni Association School of Law Alumni & Giving Alumni Association Back Alumni Association Awards Giving School of Law Alumni & Giving Giving Back How to Give Annual Giving Endowments Gift & Estate Planning Give Now MyTechLaw Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index ... ...