Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Media and Public RelationsMenu Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena Data Privacy Day 2019 Do you use social media? Have you made an online purchase? Have you clicked the “I agree” button without reading the fine print of a website’s Terms of Service? If so, there’s a chance that your personal and private information has been compromised. “There are websites and apps we use every day that collect, store, process and share all kinds of information on us, freely given by us, and that information is generally being used to commercially exploit us,” said Doug Welch, Baylor University’s chief privacy officer. “It can get downright scary. So, we need to be aware of what information is being collected and educated as to how we can protect that information.” On Monday, Jan. 28, 2019 Baylor University kicks off a weeklong awareness campaign in conjunction with Data Privacy Day, an international effort launched by the National Cyber Security Alliance (NCSA) to educate people about the importance of respecting privacy, safeguarding data and enabling trust. Below are some links to stories and tips to help build awareness of privacy and cyber security issues. 2019 Data Privacy Day Stories and Tips Baylor Seeks to Educate, Raise Awareness of Data Privacy and Cyber Security Baylor University will kick off a weeklong awareness campaign in conjunction with Data Privacy Day, an international effort launched by the National Cyber Security Alliance (NCSA) to educate people about the importance of respecting privacy, safeguarding data and enabling trust. Baylor Privacy Officer Shares Seven ‘Pre-Spring Cleaning’ Tips to Protect Personal Information A few simple steps taken today to protect personal and private information can save people from a nightmare of future challenges, said Doug Welch, Baylor University’s chief privacy officer. Duo Two-Factor Authentication Bolsters Security of University’s Information Resources Over the past three years, Baylor University has taken major steps forward to protect the security of its most vital, widely-accessed University and personal information resources by implementing Duo two-factor authentication across all of its online resources. Baylor Privacy Officer Explains Five Ethical Principles that Should Drive Data Privacy Discussions The method of collecting information and how that information is then used and shared are key factors to consider when creating privacy policies, said Doug Welch, Baylor University’s chief privacy officer. But what drives those considerations and decisions? BearAware: Tips to Secure Your Passwords The first step in securing your password is to ensure that the password itself is as strong as possible. Many online platforms now enforce strong passwords, but here are some general guidelines to create passwords that will stand up (for a long while at least) to any sort of brute force attack. BearAware: How to Protect Yourself from Phishing Scams Phishing is the most common form of cyber attack and often shows up via email. Learn what it is, how to identify it and see how Baylor takes steps to alert the community about the latest phishing scams. BearAware: Social Networking Security Tips Social media platforms can pose significant personal risks if they are not navigated carefully. Here are some very basic tips to keep in mind while connecting and engaging with others online. Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Tweets by @BaylorUMedia Contact Us mail Media and Public Relations Baylor University One Bear Place #97024 Waco, TX 76798 tel (254) 710-1961 Email mediacomm@baylor.edu More Contact Info Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena