Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content APW Undergraduate Undergraduate UG Concentrations Minors Course Descriptions How to Apply UG Academic Records and Advising UG Concentrations UG Concentrations Applied Physiology and Health Management Undergraduate Specialization Sport Management Undergraduate Concentration Sport Performance Leadership Undergraduate Concentration Minors Minors Applied Physiology Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership Master's Degrees Master's Degrees M.S. in Health Promotion Management M.S. in Sport Management Ph.D. in Education Ph.D. in Education Research Wellness Wellness Wellness PRW1 and PRW 2 Wellness Course Descriptions Wellness Class Schedules Faculty Frequently Asked Questions Wellness Facebook Page ☰ Personal Responsibility and Wellness Wellness Academics Applied Physiology and Sport Management Wellness Program The mission of the Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness is to promote academic rigor and sound practice as it relates to health, wellness, fitness, sport management and sport performance leadership. The Wellness program offers two courses- Personal Responsibility and Wellness I and Personal Responsibility and Wellness II which completes the University Curriculum requirement. The wellness courses reflect the University's philosophy that a balanced education should enhance the social, physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual well-being of students. The Applied Physiology and Sport Management program includes a Bachelor of Science in Applied Physiology and Sport Management (APSM) with concentrations in Applied Physiology & Health Management, Sport Management and Sport Performance Leadership. In addition to the B.S. program, the APW department offers a M.S. in Sport Management, a M.S. in Health Promotion Management and a Ph.D. in Applied Physiology. We also have three research laboratories: the Locomotor Performance Lab, the Simmons Applied Physiology/Biomechanics Lab and the Cerebrovascular Research Laboratory. The Wellness program offers classes that reflect the University's philosophy that a rounded education should enhance the social, physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual well-being of students. All department offerings challenge students to think critically about whom they are and the decisions they make. They encourage an attitude of lifelong comprehensive wellness and teach skills to deal with potential imbalances in lifestyle. Although the Department offers a variety of Wellness classes, two in particular are important to all undergraduate students; as part of SMU's University Curriculum, PRW 1101 (PRW 1) and PRW 2000 (PRW 2) are required for graduation. PRW 1 PRW 1 is a one credit hour course required for graduation. The course is designed to strengthen the connections between the student and the University, and explore three sets of issues related to well-being in college and later in life: (1) the role of personal responsibility in coping with college and life’s other transitional periods; (2) challenges and opportunities at SMU, including managing time, stress, benefiting from diversity and autonomy, dealing with pitfalls related to alcohol and drugs, and exploring resources and activities on campus; and (3) personal finance to enable students to make informed decisions about managing money, using credit cards, and making major purchases, whether during their time at SMU or later in life. PRW 2 Extensive research supports that regular physical activity is essential for health and vitality. Students at SMU will take PRW 2: Physical Fitness: A variety of individual and group fitness courses will be available to students with each course containing central core objectives and student learning outcomes based on health-related fitness components. In both cases, students work with instructors to establish personal goals and a fitness plan for the semester. Wellness Program Overview PRW1 and PRW 2 Wellness Course Descriptions Class Schedules Faculty Frequently Asked Questions Wellness Facebook Page Upcoming Events Contact Applied Physiology & Health Management Contact Us 214-768-2776 apsm@smu.edu Request Info Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall 3101 University Blvd, Suite 306 Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter