Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School People Contacts and Resources for Graduate Students Graduate School Skip to Navigation Contacts and Resources for Graduate Students Talking with a Graduate School Dean It's okay to ask for help. At Brown, we care about the whole you and work with you to support your success. The Graduate Student Resources page lists contacts for academics, health & wellness, and the student experience. If you are not sure where to go or are not sure what your question is, you can start with one of the Graduate School deans (below) or one of the Support Deans in the Office of Student Support Services. This list of deans indicates roles, office hours and means of scheduling. Additional Graduate School contacts are available on the Deans & Staff page. Associate Deans Maria Suarez Associate Dean of Student Support Deputy Title IX Coordinator Meetings times available through online self-scheduling, and by appointment. Shayna Kessel Associate Dean for Masters and Professional Programs, School of Professional Studies Meetings by appointment; to arrange one, email [email protected]. Thomas A. Lewis Associate Dean of Academic Affairs Professor of Religious Studies Meetings by appointment. Vanessa Ryan Associate Dean of Student DevelopmentOffice hours appointments, Tuesdays 2-4 pm, and appointments at other times are available through online self-scheduling. Dean of the Graduate School Andrew G. Campbell Weekly office hours for graduate students: Mondays, 2 - 3 pm, Horace Mann 202. You may also contact [email protected] to schedule an appointment. Home About the Graduate School People Dean's Message Directors of Graduate Study Governance: Graduate Council Presidential Fellows Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University