Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Housing Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Incoming Students Current Students Guide to Living Explore Residences Dates Other Services About First-Year Housing First-Year Application First-Year Check-In 3-2 Combined Plan Housing New Transfer and Exchange Housing Visiting Student Housing Summer Housing Options for Students Spring Check-Out Room Selection How It Works Eligibility Special Populations Registration Point Values, Lottery Numbers & Selection Appointments Selection Selecting as a Group Online Selection Step-by-Step If You Need Help Hartley Hospitality Desk Resident Advisers On Duty Columbia Public Safety Forms Residence Halls Directory with Map First-Year Area Carman Hall Furnald Hall Hartley Hall John Jay Hall Wallach Hall Upperclass Area 47 Claremont Avenue 600 West 113 Street Broadway Hall Carlton Arms East Campus Harmony Hall Hogan Hall McBain Hall Residential Brownstones River Hall Ruggles Hall Schapiro Hall SIC Residences Watt Hall Wien Hall Woodbridge Hall Fraternities and Sororities FSL Brownstones Residence Hall Amenities Bike Storage Locations Computer Labs & Print Stations Fitness Center Locations Residence Hall Lounges Rate Structure Fire Safety Resident Advisers On Duty Hartley Hospitality Desk Conference Housing Conference Housing Request Form Commencement Housing Our Team About Columbia Housing Staff Directory Resources News & Announcements Video Library Sustainability Our Sustainability Initiatives Green Sale Sustainable Columbia Website Other Campus Housing Columbia Housing You are here: Home Current Students Room Selection Registration Point Values, Lottery Numbers & Selection Appointments Point Values, Lottery Numbers & Selection Appointments The order in which students select housing during Room Selection depends on the lottery number they receive following registration. The lottery number is determined by the point value assigned to individual students or groups. Point values, lottery numbers, and selection appointments are assigned only to students with guaranteed housing status. Students with non-guaranteed housing are not eligible to participate in Room Selection. Point Value Students are assigned a point value based on seniority. Priority is assigned as follows: Rising Seniors: 30 points Rising Juniors: 20 points Rising Sophomores: 10 points Group point value is the average value of all Columbia group members (rising Barnard College seniors are assigned 30 points.) Approved Leaves of Absence & Point Value If a student with guaranteed housing takes an approved leave of absence, their point value may be impacted. You will see your point value during the Room Selection registration process. Please contact Columbia Housing if you believe your point value is incorrect. Lottery Numbers After the registration period is over, each individual or group is assigned a randomly selected, computer-generated lottery number. Groups receive one lottery number. Individuals or groups with lower lottery numbers will have appointment times towards the beginning of Room Selection, whereas higher lottery numbers will have appointment times towards the end of Room Selection.  A higher point value indicates greater priority, and individuals or groups with more points are assigned a lower lottery number. Lottery numbers are typically assigned as follows: Seniors (30 points): Lottery numbers 1- 1000 Mixed-point groups (20.1 – 29.9 points): Lottery numbers 1001 – 2000 Juniors (20 points): Lottery numbers 2001 – 3000 Mixed-point groups (10.1 – 19.9 points): Lottery numbers 3001 – 4000 Sophomores (10 points): Lottery numbers 4001 – 5000 Every group member receives the same lottery number. Lottery numbers are emailed to students and posted to the Registration Summary page of the Housing Application in the Housing Portal. Please see the Housing Calendar for dates. Appointment Times Each individual or group is then assigned a specific appointment date and time to choose their room, suite or apartment. Students’ and groups' appointment dates and times are posted to the Registration Summary page of the Housing Application in the Housing Portal after registration has closed. Rooms can be selected any time between your assigned appointment time and the end of Room Selection. However, we encourage you to select as early as possible in order to have the most options to choose from. Please see the Housing Calendar for appointment time and selection dates. Columbia Housing Portal Submit a Service Request Housing Web Forms Contact Us: 212-854-2946 (Monday - Friday 9:00 - 5:00) 212-854-2779 (After hours and weekends) [email protected] Questions? Need Help? Contact the Hartley Hospitality Desk at 212-854-2779. Phone Housing Main Office: 212-854-2946 (Monday - Friday, 9:00AM - 5:00PM) Hospitality Desk: 212-854-2779 (Available 24x7) Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close