Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Curricular Resource Center Independent Studies Curricular Resource Center Independent Studies Welcome to the Independent Studies program! The Independent Studies (IS) program enables students to turn their passions into student-led academic courses. This page has important dates and resources, so this is the best place to start for creating your own independent study! The learning goals of our program are: To connect the IS program with the broader CRC and Open Curriculum mission into our practice of mentorship. To help students create/navigate their educational path. Drop-in Advising Hours for Spring '22: Mon: 9-10am; 12-2pm Tue: 9-6pm Wed: 9-10am; 2-4pm Thu: 3-4pm Fri: 12-2pm If these times don't work, email [email protected] for an appointment or with your questions! Dates & Deadlines: Friday, November 12: Deadline to submit GISPs/ISPs/AIs for Spring 2022 semester Friday, April 8: Deadline to submit GISPs/ISPs/AIs for Fall 2022 semester Please submit all material by email to [email protected]. You will share a first draft of your proposal with the IS coordinators before you submit your finalized application to the committee. This is meant to help strengthen your application; the coordinators will provide extensive feedback and suggest strategies for revision. The feedback process is dialectical and meant to improve your learning experience - please reach out to the coordinators at any point to discuss your ideas! You can stay tuned about all the independent studies deadlines and events by subscribing to our calendar! IS Resources: IS Crash Course: Thinking about creating your own independent study but are not sure how to go about it? You can watch this video and view this presentation to learn about the different types of independent studies and the process of creating one. Past GISPs Database - request digital copies of past GISPs. You can also stop by the CRC in the basement of the CareerLAB to browse the earlier Independent Studies proposals. Potential GISP Ideas - submit your GISP ideas and find out more about the GISPs your peers are working. Syllabus writing workshop - you can access a step-by-step guide to constructing your own syllabus. Want to read the report from the very first GISP that spurred on the creation of Brown's Open Curriculum? Read the Draft of a Working Paper for Education at Brown University. (G)ISP InfographicAI Infographic Related Files Faculty Info Sheet.pdf Home Independent Concentrations Independent Studies Start here Getting Started Application Materials Independent Study Projects (ISPs) Academic Internships (AIs) Departmental Independent Study Projects (DISPs) Global Independent Study Projects (GLISPs) (G)ISP Talks Leavetaking Departmental Undergraduate Groups (DUGs) Matched Advising Program for Sophomores (MAPS) Fellowship, Internship, and Research Experiences (FIRe) Theories in Action Symposium (TiA) Contact Print this Page Share this Page Curricular Resource Center Brown University Box 1825 167 Angell Street Ground Level Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3013 Fax n/a [email protected] There are no events available. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory