Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display. Skip to Content × Close Top Search Items Admissions Financial Aid Bursar Center for Academic Success Technology Career Center Libraries Human Resources Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Our Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes University Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Advising Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming SHUPirates.com Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Our Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes University Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Advising Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Learn More Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates Stay up-to-date on all the Pirate happenings and connect with Seton Hall's 14 athletic programs. SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now Page Not Found. Did you step on the seal? You may have come to a page that doesn't exist, we've broken something or you've stepped on the seal. Legend has it those who step on the seal may experience bad luck at Seton Hall... including broken links on our website. Please try using our search or visiting the Seton Hall Homepage... and don't worry, legend also says touching the pirate's boot in front of the rec center will reverse any bad luck. Go Pirates! Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Nondiscrimination Statement and Title IX Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social