Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Student Activities Office About Staff Student Activities Office Staff Student Activities Office Staff (in alphabetical order) SAO Advisors & Groups | Grad Students | Students SAO Advisors & Groups STAFF (alphabetical) Email TITLE GROUPS ADVISED / ROLE STEFANIE ARGUS [email protected] Program Manager Brown Outdoor Leadership Training (BOLT) & Leadership Development Programs, Recreational and Appreciation Groups MATT BRANCH [email protected] Associate Director Brown Concert Agency, Fashion @ Brown, Ivy Film Festival, Lecture Board, Political and Social Action Groups, Underground Thursdays ANTWAN BLUSTER [email protected] Assistant Director for Student Activities SAO Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives, Cultural, Gender/Sexuality, Religious & Spiritual Life groups, Service Groups JEN LUCERO [email protected] Assistant Director for Performing & Visual Arts A Cappella, Arts, Comedy, Media, Music, News & Publication, Radio and Film, Theatre Groups and Performing Arts Safety DANIELA MONGE [email protected] Administrative Coordinator Liber Brunensis, SAO Administrative Functions JOIE STEELE [email protected] Senior Associate Dean & Director of Student Activities Undergraduate Council of Students, Undergraduate Finance Board MARISA FORTNEY [email protected] Assistant Director, Stephen Robert ‘62 Campus Center & SAO Academic, & Professional, Class Coordinating Boards, Stephen Robert ‘62 Campus Center management, Campus Center Programming Vacant Assistant Director, Graduate Student Activities & Student Leadership Development Graduate Student Organizations (Interim Advisor: Stefanie Argus), Leadership, SAO Administrative Functions Stefanie Argus (She, Her, Hers) Program Manager, Leadership Development & BOLT Stefanie joined Brown University in September 2021. She previously served in leadership roles with several non-profit organizations, and is an active volunteer with both Girl Scouts USA and the World Association of Girl Guides & Girl Scouts. Stefanie earned her Bachelor of Arts in Psychology & Education from Mount Holyoke College and her Master of Arts in Adventure Education from Prescott College. In addition to her work with Brown, Stefanie is a current doctoral student in the University of Rhode Island/Rhode Island College's joint PhD in Education program, focusing on justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion topics. She is passionate about hiking, Zumba instructing, and her two Pembroke Welsh corgis. Contact: [email protected] Antwan Bluster (He, Him, His) Assistant Director for Student Activities Antwan joined Brown University in November 2021. Prior to working at Brown, he worked in several capacities such as residence life, student engagement and admissions. Antwan earned his Bachelors in International Business from American International College and is currently completing his Masters in Business Administration from College of Our Lady the Elms. Antwan supports over 100 student groups organizations throughout the ethnic/cultural, gender/sexuality, religious/spiritual life, and service based categories. Additionally, he is the point person for SAO’s DIAP initiatives and manages the lunchtime discussion series. Antwan is a big Adele fan, loves cooking, and enjoys playing tennis. Matthew Branch (He, Him, His) Associate Director for Student Activities Matt Branch joined the Student Activities Team in October 2015. As Assistant Director for Student Activities and Special Initatives Matt manages implementation of the SAO Diversity and Inlcusion Action Plan (DIAP), the Underground Thursdays monthly performing series, and the Orientation Welcoming Committee, a group of student leaders who plan and manage over a dozen events for Orientation. Additionally, he advises A Better World by Design, Brown Concert Agencies, Brown Debating Union, Brown Outdoor Leadership Training (BOLT) program, , Cultural and Ethnic, Gender & Sexuality, Ivy Film Festival, Model UN, Mock Trial, Political, Religious and Social Action groups here on campus. Prior to coming to Brown, Matt worked in Museum Education and Public Programming, holding positions at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Museum for African Art, and the Brooklyn. In addition to working full-time in the Student Activities Office, Matt is currently a student in the Public Humanities Master's Degree program here at Brown and competes with the Brown Ballroom Dance Team. Matt enjoys attending student group events here at Brown and going home to visit family and friends in New York City. Contact: [email protected] Diane Chouinard (She, Her, Hers) Financial Manager Diane Chouinard has worked at Brown University for over 33 years in various financial roles. She joined the Student Activities Office in August 2000 as the Coordinator for Business Services and later promoted to Financial Manager. Diane oversees the financial activity for over 400 student organizations to ensure they follow University and departmental policies when conducting their financial transactions. She enjoys spending her free time boating and relaxing 'On Golden Pond', aka Great Pond, in Belgrade, Maine. Oversees: E-Commerce, Financial Reporting, Financial Signatories, Payment Card Industry Compliance, Senior Week Transactions, Student Group Finances Contact: [email protected] Marisa Fortney (She, Her,Hers) Assistant Director, Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center & Student Activities Marisa joined the Student Activities team in January 2022. Originally from New Jersey, Marisa earned her B.S. in Human Development and Family Studies from the University of Rhode Island and her M.Ed in Student Personnel Administration in Higher Education from Springfield College. Prior to joining the Brown community, she worked at Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) focusing on new student orientation and large-scale events. In addition to her time at RISD she has had the opportunity to work in both Residence Life and Housing and Student Conduct. In her current role as the Assistant Director, Stephen Robert ‘62 Campus Center and Student Activities Marisa will oversee the campus center striving to make it a more dynamic space for students to gather and advising student groups in implementing large-scale events. In her spare time she enjoys running, hiking, reading, and traveling. Contact: [email protected] Jen Lucero (She, Her, Hers) Assistant Director and Safety Specialist for Performing & Visual Arts Jen joined the Student Activities Office team in November 2021. Prior to becoming a Brunonian, she worked as a stage technician, stage manager, and production supervisor with several educational, community, and professional theater organizations in the tri-state area including McCarter Theatre Center, Brookdale Performing Arts Center and Van Zandt Milmore Productions. As the advisor and safety specialist for the Performing and Visual Arts student groups, Jen is equal parts safety advocate and creativity cheerleader for a wide variety of artistic endeavors including theater and dance, acapella and improv, publications, music, radio and film. As a hands-on collaborator, she can often be found scooting around campus checking on SAO’s other facilities in Alumnae and TF Green Halls as well as attending as many rehearsals, releases, performances, concerts and events as time allows. Contact: [email protected] Daniela Monge (She, Her, Hers) Administrative Coordinator Daniela has worked at Brown University since 2016. She previously worked as a research assistant for the Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior. After a short time away from Brown, she rejoins the University with the Student Activities Office as the Administrative Coordinator. Daniela earned her Bachelors in Psychology from Wheaton College, MA and her Masters of Education in Higher Education Administration from Providence College in 2021. Outside of work Daniela enjoys spending time with her dog Winston, her family, and traveling. Contact: [email protected] Joie Steele (She, Her, Hers) Senior Associate Dean and Director of Student Activities Joie Steele joined the Student Activities Office (SAO) team in January 2012. Prior to her work at Brown, she worked in Residential Life at Rhode Island College. Originally from Massachusetts, she completed her undergraduate work at Bridgewater State University and graduate work at the University of Rhode Island. Currently, as the Director of the Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center and Student Activities, Joie works to empower students and enhance their capacities to be more effective and adaptive leaders. In addition, Joie strives to support student leadership and initiative to enhance and promote campus community. Under her leadership, the SAO team oversees student group advising for over 400 student groups, outdoor leadership and the Brown Outdoor Leadership Training (BOLT) program, and the Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center. Advises: Student Government Oversees: Student Activities Office Contact: [email protected] Administrative Assistants The Administrative Assistants maintain the SAO Main Office in room 232 and are essential to the day-to-day function of Student Activities throughout the year. Greeting guests and answering phone calls and emails to [email protected], the Admin Assistants are some of the first people you'll meet when you visit SAO. Managing event registration data, and form and training completion, as well as providing support for biannual processes such as group Mandatory Fall Roll Call (re-registration), Event Planning 101 meetings, and Activities Fairs all fall under their purview. Kanayo Duru '25 Nasreen Durmaq '22 Daniela Jayinski '25 Katie Lee '22 Diana Nazari '25 Niyanta Nepal '25 BOLT Managers Tommy Bellaire '23 Glennie Lebaron '23 Will Yang '22.5 Zina Dolan ‘22.5 Campus Center Evening Managers The Campus Center Evening Managers staff the Welcome Info Desk on the first floor of the Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center between the hours of 5 PM and 11 PM every weeknight. In addition, they are responsible for completing rounds of the building, and documenting any issues or concerns. Campus Center Programmers The Campus Center Programmers host a variety of social programs in and around the Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center open to the entire Brown community. This includes favorites such as the annual Halloween Extravaganza, Dia de Los Muertos, Duck Hunt, Spring Weekend Air Brush Hats and the Spring Weekend Relaxation Station. Brown co-sponsors have included the President's Staff Advisory Council (SAC), Latinx student groups, Project LETS, Counseling and Psychological Services, Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender, Office of Residential Life, Office of the Presdient and more! Our Programmers know how to plan great events, and keep the Campus Center lively! Follow @browncampuscenter on Instagram to see what they're up to or email [email protected]. Diversity and Inclusion Student Coordinators The Diversity and Inclusion Student Coordinators support Student Activities with student-centered DIAP (Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan) initiatives, many of which are a result of 2015 DIAP survey responses. The D&I Coordinators work with a variety of campus partners hosting panels and roundtable discussions for student group leaders. Guests of panels and discussions include the Brown Center for Students of Color, Counseling and Psychological Services, Office of Student Conduct, Campus Life, student organizations such as the Undergraduate Finance Board and Project LETS to name a few. Discussions cover a variety of topics including student burnout and self-care, healthy conflict resolution, disposability politics and issues of gender and labor. In addition to discussions, the D&I Coordinators work to strengthen relationships between Student Activities, student organizations and campus partners such as the Department of Public Safety. Last updated 8/26/2021 Arts, Dance/Acrobatics, Music, Radio/Film, Recreation/Appreciation, Theater/Drama groups Home About Staff Spring Weekend Policies for Student Groups Student Group Resources Hazing Prevention Leadership Awards Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center News Print this Page Share this Page Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center (Faunce House) Brown University Box 1930 75 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2341 Fax 401-863-1155 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Links Brown Outdoor Leadership Training Brown Student Agencies Liber Brunensis (Yearbook) Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center Undergraduate Council of Students Undergraduate Orientation Resources 25Live Space Reservation Brown Space Reservation Catering Menus Dignitary Notification Form Event Support Services Media Services Request Form