In This Issue Good Sports This year’s spring semester was UCF’s greatest undertaking in school history as all 16 varsity sports were in action after most traditional fall sports were pushed back. Why I Will Always Remember 9/11 Victim Services Director Christine Mouton ’98 ’01MS reflects on what it was like to support 9/11 victims and survivors 20 years ago. Gateway to the Galaxy Knights are leading the team helping to create NASA’s Gateway — an outpost that will orbit the moon to advance deep space travel, research and habitation. A Transformational Investment Philanthropist MacKenzie Scott’s $40 million gift to UCF — the largest in the university’s history — will strengthen proven pathways to opportunity, fueling student success, academic excellence and faculty research for generations. 1ON1: Head to Head Vice President and Director of Athletics Terry Mohajir and Head Football Coach Gus Malzahn talk about their vision for UCF as the future of college football and university athletics. Generating a Buzz How one of the minds behind the ’90s viral sensation The Blair Witch Project continues to evolve transmedia storytelling. 23 UCF Recollections on the Eve of Retirement Gene Kruckemyer ’73 reflects on his 52 years at UCF as a student, instructor and news editor as he approaches his next big adventure. Gold Standard From trailblazing for women’s soccer to officiating for men’s basketball, Knights reminisce about their Olympic memories. Lasting Legacy Derreasha Jones ’21 has left a legacy at UCF by honoring the impact of John T. Washington — one of the university’s first Black faculty members. The Show Goes On After the pandemic forced the showcase to be cancelled in 2020, UCF Celebrates the Arts returned in 2021 with a lineup of primarily outdoor events. Giants of Academia The most prestigious universities in the world are looking at the McNair Scholars coming out of UCF and asking: How can we make a universal impact like that? Taking Shape One alum’s global exercise brand is topping the home-fitness industry leaderboard. On Campus — Summer 2021 As UCF prepared to slowly transition to pre-pandemic operations, old, new and modified activities made campus come to life. Leading by Example UCF’s new senior vice president for administration and finance was 34 when he first became a chief financial officer. He’s spent every day since helping others achieve success. UCF’s Modern(a) Man A UCF graduate led the charge to create Moderna’s COVID-19 vaccine and opened up the possibilities for the future of medicine. Close Back Forward Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives UCF’s Modern(a) Man Giants of Academia Gateway to the Galaxy More in this Issue Gold Standard On Campus — Summer 2021 The Show Goes On 23 UCF Recollections on the Eve of Retirement A Transformational Investment Why I Will Always Remember 9/11 1ON1: Head to Head Taking Shape Leading by Example Lasting Legacy Good Sports Generating a Buzz Recent Issues of Pegasus Magazine View Archives » Follow UCF on Facebook Follow UCF on Twitter Follow UCF on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816